ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27250	Thank you very much. And finally SDP's Club of Representatives on behalf of the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27251	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President HS, respected by the public. I believe you've heard of a major air pollution in Slavonski Brod these days. The fact is, we're often worse than Beijing after air pollution and not just these days. We've been struggling with this problem for years, but unfortunately without any significant shift. This allowed value of sulphur concentration during December 2020 in just 5 days exceeded the hourly limit value of as much as 30 times the permitted 24 overruns throughout the calendar year. And now we're in a situation where we have the daily limit value of floating particles of extremely high concentration. In fact, in February 5th of this year, the measured value of floating particles is measured at measured stations in Slavonski Brod up to 330 micrograms, which on average should not be more than 20 to 50, which is extremely high pollution. These particles are less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter, so small ones are kept in the air for longer, and other than the lungs they can enter directly into the cardiovascular system. The air has been polluted to the extent that the European Environment Agency has also warned several times of the citizens of Slavonski Brod to limit open-air activities and that sensitive people should not leave their homes. However, this does not seem to concern those in the Republic of Croatia who are competent to respond to this problem, so both competent persons and the HZJZ Toxicology Service claim that the limit values of the Slavonski Brod's sulfurs have never quite reached levels that would be dangerous to human health, and states that it is only one insolent gas that only smells very bad, as they state only uneasy and that it is absolutely certain that no one wants to live in such an atmosphere and that the only result will be headaches and nausea in people who are sensitive to the scents. It is a response to the profession and professional services in the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of professions, the Committee for the Monitoring of Air Quality in Slavonski Brod, established by the Ministry, despite constant overruns, permitted values, has not met for over 2 years, confirming the warning of ship's environmentalists and associations, as well as citizens themselves, that there is no will for those in charge to solve this problem. The measures that have been promised so far remained only a dead letter on paper because even the minimum was not implemented, for example, the energy restoration of family homes that remained several years in a row, and the implementation of it would reduce the emissions of particles during the heating season. There was also a mention of the subsidisation of central thermal system connections to households in order to encourage the use of a minimum-emission energy source of particles, but this remained a dead letter on paper. What I expect at this time as a representative of the citizens of Slavonski Brod city is, first of all, the response of Minister Ćorić, which was done backwards, here, just a year on the issue of solving polluted air in Sl. Given that the EU Commission has also regularly warned of this problem and what measures have been taken to improve air quality. I also expect a response from the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs if we approach this problem as an equal Member State of the EU and which European institutions we have addressed so far. Do we have official information on whether or not the refineries are working in the Bosnian ship? I also expect the Health Minister's response to whether the competent ministry has been reporting on the available results of an impact study of environmental factors on human health since 2016. Except that we have been hit by early water pollution, now pandemics, measures, wearing masks, we can't even get out and walk because our air has been polluted. It's been too long, and this problem doesn't have a final solution for too long. I will certainly initiate the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection on this topic because citizens of the same. The ship deserves much more information than mere speculation and free promises. And, of course, residents of etc. The ship deserves a final solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27432	Thank you very much. Since it's one hour, we'll now stop at this point and move on to taking a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and we'll proceed afterwards with the point. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns in the name of which the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So the next one will be the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club on behalf of which they will speak the respected representative Marijana Puljak. She's gone, she loses her right and she loses her speech. Then, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am. If you were to give the title to this free speech, he would be a HOS in the whirlwind of Croatian politics. After the latest scandal in Zadar, and before that, a similar thing happened in the Okucanes, so a month before that in Jasenovac, the Republic's serious conflict with the members and symbols of the HoS became a serious political problem in the Republic of Slovenia. I, as an authentic representative and a member of this serious war, am not going to say military but military formations, I am taking my right, and I feel the need to speak to the team more than my first-line comrades often invite me to speak, especially on this subject. When I say authentic Hos or member of the Hos, I've gone from water commanders to captains of the military headquarters, all possible war and commandal variants of the Hos, back to HS, and here I came to the opportunity to solve what I thought was solved there in '91, second, third year when we Hos's men showed on the ground and on the battlefield who we are, what we are, and what we're worth. But after the latest scandal, big stories started from three sources. My friends, my comrades, and I personally have the most trouble with those who defend us, those who don't love us, who attack us, who go almost in the spirit of us, they're at least simple. They do not dispute our contribution to the defence of Croatia, but they are bothered by something else, they are disturbed by the cry "For Home Ready" in our emblem in our coat of arms in our greeting. They claim the same greeting, the same insignence that one other Croatian army had, that it had the Ustasha army in II. World war and truth are not far from the truth. The clock needs to be set properly to solve the problem. Those who are doing the most damage to us at this time are those who defend us with stories that "For Home Ready"'s greeting is not Ustasha, but the old Croatian historical greeting, so we go through history there is no such greeting we can find. He was first as such complex and pronounced in 1929. After the 6th January dictatorship of Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, then the stories of HOS have nothing to do with the constitution and fascism, with Fascism, has nothing to do with the constitution, but it has to see what kind of relationship it is and that a modern Croatian state was created on the basis of the Homeland War, should not enter II. The world war, in order to solve this problem, we need to get into II. World War I and see what was going on there. Something very interesting, that both friends and enemies honor this fascism, that fascist movement. Will we experience that someone in the Croatian public finally said something significant about this fascist movement, about the movement that took place in Milan on 23.3.1919 and spread throughout Europe, and came to the former Yugoslavia, but in Slovenia he found refuge, in Serbia he found a haven, the Croats did not want him, '29. Two such fascist movements and fascist cells were founded in Slovenia, in '30. The same thing happened in Serbia in Croats while the Croatian will decided that there was no greeting. I'm afraid I'll spend too much time fast and in agreement with my friends the subject is demanding, I'll continue it tomorrow. However, the most important thing for me to tell you is that story I learned from the two Hoss, one 35-year-old Marko, 35-year-old, when he entered the war, and another 16-year-old Darko Peranovic, two very interesting stories that will best illustrate how these Croatian patriots have joined the Hos for what reason. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27604	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27605	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected to the public, I will speak my mind on behalf of the HDZ Club, as regards our daily life, concerning what has happened and is happening in the current time. Not long ago, we made a budget for 2021, '22, '23. And then there was a lot of debate about what projections are and what awaits us in the future. Many of them, with skepticism, are actually all of those projections that are often mentioned, and criticisms are also being made, but right now, the European Commission's position, which has now come out, is actually saying that the Croatian economy, that this year will be the fall of last 2020. 8.9% which is better than those forecasts that were, which was 9.6%. At the same time in 2021, an economic growth of 5.3 and 4.8% is expected. We must say that this expected growth is third in the EU and this is compared to other countries. Spain has 5.6% and France is expected 5.5%. Also when it comes to the estimated decline Croatia is the fourth in a row compared to us Spain has a 11% decline and Greece 10 and Malta is 9%. What was not taken into account and what the European Commission said was that this year's self-assessment and this year's growth did not take into account the recovery and resilience mechanism, where we do not forget that Croatia has more than EUR 5.94 billion in grants and EUR 3.6 billion in loans. This year already in 2021, Croatia will withdraw 13% for pre-financing, which is very helpful for our economy. What we need to point out is that this year is forecasting investment growth, and this is given the events that occurred in the construction sector in particular. The inflation rate is around 0%, however, it is expected to increase slightly from 1.2% and 1.5% in 2022, respectively. Let's not forget that last year's period was a fall in oil prices, and that has had a major impact on inflation rates, and that impact is losing. Once again, I would like to point out that just in time and quality measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken to protect jobs, to help entrepreneurs achieve and to maintain adequate liquidity and economic activity, this has had a major impact on this improved status of the Republic of Croatia and on the expected decline in the past 2020. Also, very high-quality planning of public finances and the budget of the Republic of Croatia with responsible behaviour and measures that are very high-quality and quickly applied, so all this is the result of such positive movements, and so here I believe that we will even achieve possible and better forecasts than we have now, which are very high-quality and significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27678	Thank you. Please don't do this for that there's a certain time and there's some order, so if others can hold on to it, please do as well. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Raspoudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27679	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I will use this five-minute speech to announce tomorrow's joint thematic session of even three parliamentary committees, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The topic of this joint session, even three committees, will be "What institutions can do in the event of sexual harassment at public institutions". In addition to the members and members of the board who will participate in this joint thematic session, it is my pleasure to say that all invited guests from public institutions who have been directly or indirectly part of these discussions concerning sexual harassment at public institutions have responded to it. In this sense, the work of this session will include Radovan Fuchs Minister of Science and Education, Nina Obulen Koržinek Minister of Culture and Media, Jure Martinović State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Višnja Ljubicic, Advocate General for Gender Equality, Marin Milković President of the Rectorial Assembly, Damir Jugo President of the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools, Franka Perković Gamulin Dean of the Academy of Drama Arts, Kazimir Bačić Chief Director of HRT, Morana Palković Grudan on behalf of the HRT Supervisory Board, Helena Mežnar representative of the Working Council of HRT, Maja Mamula Coordinator of the Women's Room, Josip Periša President of the Student Assembly of the University of Zagreb and representative of the Councils of Higher Schools and Higher Schools. Tomorrow's session is a unique opportunity that shows that there is a common interest and the possibility of agreement to discuss, independently of our party memberships, one issue that is of social importance, the subject of sexual harassment at public institutions. We have this opportunity to discuss this subject with other social actors involved in this dialogue and to open for the first time all the issues that have plagued the public in the past days to get concrete answers to them, but to move a step beyond what is our basic task, which is to create an appropriate legislative framework to prevent sexual harassment in the future. On the occasion of this session, given all the ways in which this debate has been going in public over the past few days and potential directions that will continue to develop, I would like to highlight 2 things. The first is that we are increasingly witnessing a process of institutionalisation of the media, which is that the media are the ones who discover, process and punish criminals. Everything that happens at the level of other affairs, as well as those which are only subsequently engaged in the state's attorney's office, and now, in the event of sexual harassment, takes place exclusively through the media. We really live in a media-mediated reality, and the media has set out at the beginning one, whether one initial impulse to this whole story because they have pointed to the problem itself. But if we continue to cultivate exclusively the institutionalisation of the media, and ignore institutions that should primarily deal with the processing of these cases, we are in a dangerous zone where victims can be potentially double victimised by their cases stretching through the media. And we are also at risk of coming to an angry crowd because as important as the role of the media in society is to process through the media, it is only a step towards a public link in which everyone else can be involved. In this regard, I hope that this session will contribute to strengthening institutions that will be able to do this job in a good way. And another thing I'd like to warn you about is the trace of Kant's categorical imperative whose one formula says that you should act by treating people as yourself as always as a goal and never as a means. On the basis of everything we have witnessed in the public debate over the past few days, we should not grow teeth every time a case arises or any case of sexual harassment should be used in other private political accounts. In order to find the minimum common consensus that we need and which I believe exists in this important and difficult topic, we need to repel the urge to use this topic for other interests and focus on what is the subject itself. I hope that in such a constructive spirit, we will all have the opportunity to discuss sexual harassment at public institutions together tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27723	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the national minority on behalf of whom Ermina Lekay Prlaska, a respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27724	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we mark the International Day of Women and Girls in Science. This annual marking of this noble and significant date is unfortunately completely overshadowed by recent scandalous events related to our largest university. Applications for sexual abuse and intimidation of students at individual universities of the University of Zagreb are just the tip of the iceberg. The problems that have accumulated in the academic community for decades, unfortunately, are not the end. Unless these problems are solved in a studio and responsible way, I fear that in the future we will have no reason to mark this day that promotes women and girls in science. Although women in a far greater proportion end up various study programs compared to their male colleagues, it has been observed that in almost all business clusters, but also in higher education and science, men dominate. I must point out that this situation is not only characteristic of our country but is a similar phenomenon seen at the world level. Statistics show that the share of women among researchers at global level is only 29.3%. I believe that for the prosperity of our society, it is of paramount importance to include as many women as possible in different sectors of the economy as it is scientifically proven that mixed working teams are more creative and innovative, and to achieve better business results. In particular, the lack of female experts is felt in the technical sciences and engineering that continue to be considered primarily male professions. In order to change these trends together, it is necessary to popularise technical professions among girls in the final classes of secondary schools. It is also important to include parents in these activities because their support is of paramount importance in choosing the desired study and future profession. It is perfectly understandable that the choice of profession is greatly influenced by the possibility of employment after the completion of the study. In addition to the selection of technical colleges, the fact is that work is much easier both in Croatia and outside with a degree in these universities than with diplomas of social and humanistic studies. Although women and men are formally equated in the possibility of advancement through the academic hierarchy, it is evident that at higher levels of decision-making, their male colleagues are more represented. I believe that to overcome the existing deep crisis in major academic systems, it would be of paramount importance to achieve sexual balance when forming a body that will manage and direct these systems in the future. I use this opportunity to congratulate all students and scientists, and to congratulate their day, and to encourage them to continue working hard to perfect their skills and skills, and to choose bravely for academic places that belong to them by their talents and merits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27764	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27765	Thank you, dear Vice President. My address today is about what is going through the media these days, which is how the government and the Ministry of Agriculture are trying to justify and prepare the public for the adoption of the Seed and Fruit Law. The "Seme is our human right" initiative, consisting of more than 25,000 members from all over the Republic of Croatia, is trying to point out to the public the harmfulness of this law. This bill seems to harm the weakest in agricultural production, the smallest, the youngest, those who develop and build their OPGs, and I ask why, why do we lift the right to something that is allowed in the EU? Well, it's a farmer's seed or as this law calls it "seeds with agricultural holdings". I do not know why the adoption of this Seed and Fruit Act is forced before the adoption of a European regulation that will define the area of seed farming that is currently under way. Dear Vice President, I'm asking you to stop my time, I'd ask you not to speak on the phone the moment I speak and interfere with the debate. Today you have warned and taken word from other MPs, so I ask you to stick to it. You're distracting me, and you're not letting me debate freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27766	I don't see how I'm distracting you, but here you are, we've stopped time, go ahead, go ahead. By the way, I'll tell you the next time I see you with my cell phone, I'll see you in a similar way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27767	Mr. Vice President, I'm not interrupting you with my cell phone, but I'm using my phone as a tool in this assembly to download what I'm interested in and what I'm discussing, and you're directly distracting me here in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27768	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27769	Thank you very much. So, the EU is preparing its seed legislation, and we are running ahead of that instead of waiting for the EU to adopt legislation and then align it with that. Art. The 16 most controversial in this law is not in line with the international Treaty on Genetic resources for food and agriculture signed by Croatia in 2009, and is not in line with the UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other Persons working in rural areas, which states that farmers and other people working in rural areas have the right to safeguard, control and protect and develop their own seed and traditional knowledge. This law just wants to destroy that possibility of OPGs, especially the smallest. The public is led astray when it is trying to explain that it wants to reduce the radiation of infected seed and that it wants to increase the productivity of agricultural production. Well, none of the agricultural producers, and I'm one of those who deals with both war and vegetable production, is in no interest to sow infected seed because the infected seed creates loss and inability of income. Seeds and peasant rights are not in the interest of the government of the Republic of Croatia according to this law. This law says that manufacturers registered in the Register of Agricultural Economics can produce their seeds, but then in art. 17th of this law places such restrictions that producers cannot produce seed themselves but should drive it to someone who does not know where they will store it if 100 peasants deliver 10 tonnes of wheat different, I do not know where and which manufacturer and processor can separate it and later deliver it after they have approved it. It's one of the problems that's being lifted here. And what's another big problem exactly for suppliers, here in my hand I have the seed I'm using, it's about the Vedrana pepper whose seed was produced in Thailand, it's packed in the Netherlands, 1000 grains cost in retail over 600 kuna. You know who's responsible for the quality of this seed here? Not those who produced it and packed it in the Netherlands, but the supplier who sells it here in Croatia. According to this law, I'm asking you how this supplier, i.e. The trader may be responsible for what he has neither produced nor seen nor packed, but has introduced him from the EU as such and sold him on the domestic market? Why are we destroying these people? And they'll stop using this seed for sale, so we'll probably have to go to the Netherlands, Austria or somewhere else for a seed like this. This government will destroy what little is left of small agriculture with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27822	The next Club of Representatives will be the one, in fact an independent representative, the Honorable Representative Find, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u27823	Thank you, dear Vice President. Of the oxen and the gods, of equal and equal, of fair and corrupt, every nation dreams of its independence and independence. For centuries the Croats also dreamed of it, not because of the fact itself, but because of what they believe it brings, equality, justice and prosperity. We welcomed independence and independence of Croatia as a fact, but not what generations meant. And why is that? Perhaps because we have 2 Croatians, one who lives honestly and legally, and the other who is allowed everything and is above the law, one who respects all measures against the crown, although this means losing jobs, existence, and even health, and the other who makes these measures, but does not adhere to them alone. So we have ten examples where members of the headquarters and government themselves have violated the measures they themselves have taken, often as it has been politically appropriate for them. So from Bozinovic, for example, we heard those famous statements "so the answer is impossible". And Beroš, as a comment to a number of people, “this did not look very bad there. ” Here's today the UGP gets a ticket, and recently some farmer's going to the field, and Mrs. Markotic, for example, nothing. And perhaps the problem is that we have one Croatia working hard to create a new value that fills the budget, and the other one that only cares about their salary being 1st or 10th in the month regardless of the situation in the private sector. Perhaps the problem is that on the one hand we have people who just want to do their job fairly, and on the other hand people who practically racket them through unbulful state regulations that are almost impossible to respect. Perhaps the problem is that while hardworking workers work for their salaries, different Ribicians and Burilovici are rich in murky jobs or state coercion. With two different Croatians, they may point out that 25 years after the war, we get new defenders even though many current ones have unfairly acquired privileged pensions, while people who have really defended their country are silent and suffering social injustice, and some have already taken their lives unfortunately. Or perhaps the two Croatians are also seen in public procurements where all taxpayers finance similar associations and media and subsidise similar companies, regular black fund loaders. The two Croatians are also shown at almost every departure for a slightly more complicated examination of the doctor where they wait for one month or years for a check-up while the other comes through the link or with bribes in order the next day. It could be said that the two Croatians and those who have apartments and business spaces in the centre of Zagreb are also looking for the funds to be re-financed by those who have no real estate, even those who have barely enough bread. A fresh example of two Croatians is the rector Boras, a man who should be the moral vertical of society, who has reached the vaccines through the link, until, for example, our sailors in international transport did not have that privilege. The two Croatians represent the case of a grandmother who was supposed to go to jail for not paying her direct bill, while Tomislav Horvatinčić, who was legally convicted of the death of two people, but was financed by HDZ, continues to walk freely and drive our streets. The two Croatians represent that investigative journalist who risks threats and injuries and maybe life when he announces an affair while on the other hand we have a government spokesman who often remembers calling media editors for his known reasons. Two Croatians represent children of honest and hardworking people who have moved to orderly countries because of injustice or indifference while on the other hand HDZ children are like Assembly counterpart Djakic, who are allowed as small spoiled dictators and who will certainly not leave this country because they know that they have no knowledge or ability to earn bread honestly elsewhere. I could list examples like this indefinitely, but I believe you've figured out the message. For many such examples, we do not have to go further than the City of Zagreb, which has become in a negative sense an example of corruption worthy of a textbook that has so far managed to overcome the only current government. Our country has become independent, but unfortunately trapped by a corrupt caste that doesn't have a shred of cheek. They have entered every port of society from village football clubs and voluntary fire companies to all institutions such as the police, the DORH and the worst judiciary. Even many private companies are under their indirect control because if someone resents the rulings, immediate access to supplies, inspections, lawsuits, etc. is being sent. It's not the country we wanted. Croatia I love and Croatia has immeasurably great potential, but without strong and independent institutions and without honest statesmen there is no progress, without strong institutions we will continue to have on the one hand those who have no money for expensive medicines for their children with rare diseases while elected officials on the other hand [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] - The speaker's off. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33182	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Today's first item on the agenda: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 103. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. Here is Honored Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs. Minister, I welcome you and ask for an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33183	President-in-Office HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework with a final draft of the law. Allow me to start with a few introductory words about the very tool of the Croatian Qualifications Framework or related issues which represent the reason and incentive for proposing amendments and supplementing the existing law. The Croatian Qualifications Framework was introduced by the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, adopted in 2013. and it is a reform instrument for the regulation of a complete system of qualifications in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the achievement of the strategic objectives of quality education relevant in view of the needs of the labour market, the consequences for society itself and for individuals, but also for society as a whole. The backbone of the Croatian qualification framework is the standards of qualifications which contain minimum quality and relevance criteria and which are the basis for the development or improvement of education and study programmes. The qualification standard is linked to standards of interest in which competences for the labour market are regulated in cooperation with employers. Each qualification in the Croatian qualification framework is located at a certain level, which is determined according to the level of learning outcomes, and the setting of qualifications at levels is possible to compare and connect qualifications at national and international level. Namely, the Croatian qualification framework has a foothold in European policies and allows for the integration of the level of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia with the levels of the European qualification framework, as well as the qualification framework of the European higher education area. Applicable Law on the Croatian Qualification Framework, which was amended in 2018. It provides for the setting of complete qualifications at 11 levels and, at level 6, the level of 6 of the qualifications acquired by pre-graduate university and pre-graduate vocational studies. Furthermore, at the same level, the following level 7.1. sets out qualifications acquired by university graduates, as well as integrated undergraduate and graduate or specialist graduate studies. With regard to that decision of the Constitutional Court of 10 March 2020, A proposal was adopted by the University of Zagreb and the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb for the assessment of compliance with the constitution of certain articles of the law on the Croatian qualification framework. The Constitutional Court's decision referred to the need for a clear distinction between professional and university studies in the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. In this respect, the indents associated with the level of the Croatian qualification framework were abolished with pre-graduate vocational studies and specialist graduate studies and some of the law which ceased to apply and abolished part of the law ceased to apply on 31 December 2020. Further to the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Ministry of Science and Education prepared a bill on amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. The proposal was consulted by the interested public for the period from 3 December 2020 to 3 January 2021. In order to resolve the legal gap arising from the rulings of the administrative court, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the adoption of the law be carried out by an urgent procedure. As key to the bill, a solution is proposed for the proper placement of qualifications obtained by completing expert studies at the level of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Professional and university study programmes and qualifications that they acquire with respect to their value and diversity are clearly different. In this respect, instead of 11 levels of overall qualifications as in the applicable law, it is proposed to introduce 13 levels. This qualification is obtained by completing vocational and university studies at the postgraduate and graduate level of accommodation at different levels, which is a pre-graduate professional study at the level of 6 ST and pre-graduate university studies at the level of 6 SV, a specialist professional study at the level of 7.1 ST and an integrated undergraduate and graduate university at the level of 7.1 SV. The draft law therefore meets the requirements set out in the Constitutional Court's decision, respects the binaryity of the higher education system in the Republic of Croatia, which is reflected in the existence of expert university studies and ensures consistent application of them. It also enables a clear distinction of passivity because the conditions of access to post-graduate university doctoral studies are levels, i.e. level 8.2, qualifications obtained by the completion of a graduate university study of 7.1 SV. The proposed legislative solution allows for the continuation of the registration of qualifications standards in the HKO Registry, which is essential for ensuring the quality and relevance of qualifications, given labour market requirements and projections of the needs for interests and skills in the future, as well as the comparability at international level. In addition, it is possible to evaluate the quality of the study programmes in the process of their adoption and external evaluation in such a way as to verify the comparability with the qualification frameworks and the corresponding descriptions for the level of individual learning outcomes. The quality criteria described in the qualification standards help to ensure equal quality of all study programmes leading to a certain qualification. In addition to the implementation of the reform objectives, it is also important in the context of Croatia's commitments in the European higher education area as well as participation in European associations related to the quality assurance of higher education. It is of particular importance to recognise qualifications in the EU and the European higher education area, which is essential to ensure employability and persons who have acquired certain qualifications. The bill aims to enable faster and more effective implementation of the reform processes in order to increase the quality and passivity of Croatian education in line with the national reform programme as well as the education, science and technology strategy. And therefore, by draft law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to fully regulate relevant issues related to HKO and improve qualifications systems at all educational levels. In this respect, while setting up qualifications acquired through completion of expert studies at levels, further changes are also proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which are considered necessary for the effective further development and implementation of the HKO. In addition to the previous experience in HKO implementation, changes are proposed for the purpose of improving, efficient simplification and speeding up the process of enrolling the standards of interest and qualifications in the HKO Registry and improving their applicability and quality. It aims to strengthen direct participation in HKO processes and to strengthen the more inclusiveness of increasing resources in the education system throughout the process. It shall include changes relating to the adoption and allocation of competences to existing agencies in the system of education, evaluation procedures and the adoption of standards of interest and qualifications, the role of sectoral councils as well as the appointment and resolution of presidents and members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. Finally, the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to fully approach key issues related to the further development and implementation of the HKO. The proposed amendments seek to reach a consensus of all stakeholders and to avoid further recommendations on the installation of expert studies at HKO levels. In addition, taking into account practical experience and lessons learned from the implementation of HKO so far, it aims to improve the existing system in order to improve the implementation of key reform processes in the education system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33184	Thank you, Minister, stay at the pay phone because we have several replicas. First up, dear colleague Grman Kizavitt, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33185	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, today these amendments to the HKO Act solve the status of professional and university studies, but I am interested in one more thing and that is when will you resolve the status of postgraduate specialist studies? Namely, those in the labour market are not recognized and currently there is one level of meaning below the doctorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33186	Here you go, answer me. ... Can you repeat that? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33187	Postgraduate specialist study is the level of education under the PhD. When the Master of Science is abolished, it's the only level of education under the doctorate, when do you plan to resolve their status? ... So I'm interested in postgraduate specialist studies, it's the only study that hasn't been recognized on the labour market. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] When will this study be properly represented in the labour market?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33188	Minister, please be there for the pay phone, we can't do that but... Wait a minute. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I pray that you speak louder then only.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33189	When post-graduate specialist studies will be recognized on the labour market, we must, of course, see with employers, we cannot simply resolve this HKO Act. This is something, the Croatian Qualifications Framework defines the level of education in terms of how long you have spent in some kind of education system, how much, which are the outcomes of learning achieved and of course, these outcomes, as I said, are classified in the Register. But the labour market, however, is something that in some way and only regulates itself, and then of course we have examples of employers in some cases if they have, let's say candidates or accessors who have more education, they'll choose him, although this one with lower education can satisfy, say, this segment. So, I'm not sure that this one [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Okay. [[Intruder: Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33190	It's a minute, please concentrate. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33191	Thank you, President HS, Your Honor, I have two questions by bringing HKO. The first is related to one minimum objective standard, meaning increasing to these 13 levels, whether we are going to establish one objective standard, the type of state graduation as a criteria of enrolment, because we know that individual universities now need not have a state degree, and in this way we can get a level of 6 and only adoption of HKO is a condition of application, the necessary condition is just to ensure the quality of application of the Framework itself, I am interested in, clean quality mechanisms of these levels, so that we know exactly the same learning outcomes, but also the quality of education, I am interested in these mechanisms on the part of the Ministry to ensure that all these 13 levels are properly implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33192	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33193	So, as far as small graduations are concerned, big graduations, it doesn't belong at all to the HKO segment, it's something that belongs to the Law on Education and Education and at this point we've been thinking and thinking and we've started some activities in terms of conducting national exams, but at this stage, of course, nothing about what's going on with a small graduation, as it's popularly called. As regards quality assurance, that is, the segment that enters HKO, any occupation can be carried out by someone who is, and the registered licensed educational institution is accredited, and the educational or study programmes are also licensed, so after that we have sectoral councils that confirm that this is an adequate interest with adequate learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33194	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33195	Thank you. Dear Minister, there's been a lot of dissatisfaction about the current possibilities of enrolment in postgraduate doctoral studies in the field of health, specifically. The master's sister can enroll in a doctoral study, and the first-grader of the sorority can't. It is the first thing, the second thing, still in the current Regulation on the names of jobs and coefficients is not recognised in the hospital system of the concept of master’s sisterhood, and in particular there is no possibility of recognising the master’s mastership of sisterhood, doctor of science, or doctor of science. What you can tell these people, how you're going to solve this problem because I think they should be recognised by a high-end expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33196	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33197	So here, respected MPs, you know that enrolment of postgraduate studies, or doctoral studies in.../incomprehensible/... or conditions for enrolment in the direct jurisdiction of what is called university autonomy, therefore, whether and under what conditions someone will enroll a doctoral study depends on how and how it will define only a university, or a single component of a university. We've had, until now, whether they're going to sign it directly or they're going to let him lay down some different objects that can go from, I don't know, one, two, so I can, so I don't know how much, unfortunately, we can't regulate it by law, that's the segment that's going into what we just said, the binaryity of the system itself, and we actually wanted to, in fact, have a pass from one study to another, which would basically mean that, of course, it's possible, but in the first place, it depends on the institution itself. We have cases already di now individual students who ended up they're in doctoral. [[/Intruder: Thank you. Finish your sentence.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33198	Thank you. Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33199	Dear Ministers, in the remarks made by the University of Zagreb on this law, it is said that additional levels of qualifications still need to be properly linked to learning outcomes in a way that professional studies are related to the level of 6 learning outcomes and university levels with level 7 learning. Note that this was not accepted, do you expect a new constitutional suit from the rectors Boras and the University of Zagreb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33200	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33201	I hope not because as someone was at the same time from that same university said, 300 is 300, and this is what the Syntagma took from the students of professional studies. Others are a pair of sleeves that are the concrete outcomes of learning, but the level of qualification is the same. You can't argue with someone who's enrolled an extra 2, 3 or 4 or 5 years after he graduated high school that his education is lower than the university, I think, and so we set the thing up, that's equal value, the only outcomes are different. That is how we defined it, and since the Constitutional Court has asked for a clear indication of the difference in the qualification framework, we have introduced two additional categories, or if you will, subcategories and hopefully, and I think it is acceptable for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33202	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33203	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, most of these laws mention equating levels of professional university studies. I think a good compromise has been reached, but what I'm going to refer to are the sector councils. Making standards of interest and qualifications is essentially a key tool to combine labour market needs with the education system. On the one hand, employers say standard of interest, what they need, on the other hand, education system in the qualification standard... qualifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to congratulate you honestly, as the minister of work who was in charge of standards of interest, it was a great frustration for me that instead of 1,000 standards of interest we had dozens in the register, just for the sake of a re-determined system of sectoral councils. So congratulations to you on this, it will significantly speed up the system of work, bringing together the system of work and education and my question to you is how do you see the dynamics of further entry of standards of interest and qualification of registers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33204	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33205	Thank you very much, you're absolutely right, Your Honor, it's that, otherwise, I'm also agreeing that what is shown in practice, that it's not good that it has to change as soon as possible, the sector councils have been conceived and formed in the previous law or present still until this vote has been terribly tromical, terribly complicated so that your data is accurate that for the past 8 years, only 30 interests have been recorded in the HKO Registry. Now we have put it all back together to agencies that are finally professional in doing this job and I am convinced that it will go much, much faster and the moment the law enters into implementation, it immediately moves with the formation of sectoral councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33206	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is clear that the reason for the amendment and the addition of this law is, in fact, the Constitutional Court's decision, which required the placing of expert studies at the appropriate levels in HKO and this proposed law has been achieved, so a compromise has been reached, the decision of the administrative court has been respected, it is possible to clearly distinguish professional and university studies and, most importantly, the requirements of more than 45, almost 50,000 students studying in professional studies are met. What is important and would like to refer to this, the changed role of sectoral councils in such a way that they really become advisory bodies in order to speed up the process of enrolling the standard of interest in the HKO Registry and are very important to stress that agencies are in the system higher education, becoming or perceived [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] as independent professional bodies. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33208	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33209	Here's thank you very much for that, that was precisely the intention of returning, the distinguished MPs, the job of those who in principle are the most professional and this proposal, hence the Agency for Higher and Science, the Agency for Education and Education, the Agency for Adults and the Agency for Professional Education in Sectoral Councils de facto are appointed presidents and deputies and the other members of these sectoral councils are generated from other interested structures, so from the chambers of the ministry, the Czech associations, etc. And I think it'll make the whole thing much easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33210	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33211	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here I welcome your determined intention to resolve HKO and I believe that in this House today we will remove politics and actually build on all our mental abilities to ensure that Croatian youth is well educated and competitive in the labour market. What I would like to ask you is the number of interests we currently have and what your intentions are to reduce, we are well known that we actually have the largest number of interests in Europe and to what extent you intend to reduce the number of interests and make these interests competitive not only in Croatia but in the labour market and... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33212	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33213	The number of professions is in principle very high if we refer to those former laws, there have been a terrible lot of these professions registered, some have even been used this often as a popular syntagm, I don't know, butcher or butcher, cattle of small teeth sometimes, you remember these occupations, now formally we have 30 registered as I said earlier, which of course doesn't correspond to reality, it will change very, very quickly but in fact the main goal and work of these sectoral councils among other things is to register future interests that may not even exist at this moment, which should be accessed in general by the study programmes and all the meetings and outcomes of learning for those jobs that we will actually need relatively recently on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33214	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33215	Thank you. Dear Ministers, if there is a consensus on anything since 2012, it is actually a awareness of the need for the existence of HKO which will in some way be coordinated with the European Qualifications Framework and thus we have actually joined the modern higher education of the 21st century which equally appreciates both professional and university studies or the level of higher education. However, what we have a problem with is the University of Zagreb, which has been trying to actually through constitutional lawsuits for 2 years and in doing so succeeds, diminishes, puts in some way a discriminated and legally insecure position of students of professional studies. Do you think it will be possible to explain to the Rector Boras that the problem lies not in discriminating them but in raising the quality of studies for which he is generously taking between the other and the money of the University of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33216	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33217	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Of course, it was something that was going on all the time, finally and constitutional action was filed by the University of Zagreb and the Faculty of Law, personally at a session of the Rector's Assembly held in Zagreb and explained what the essence and essence of this bill was and of course, explained that it was not about different levels of education but that it was about different outcomes and that the quality of the study programmes is something that certain components should work on, but that is defined by certain other laws, the Law on the quality of higher education and that should continue to work on, and that is, to implement this law as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33218	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33219	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here, I have our fellow citizens' enquiries, so I want to ask you this question, to think about how to solve the problem. In fact, we have a situation today that students and students are enrolled in the English and German module at the Faculty of Education in Zagreb for 5 years. By completing their studies, they have a qualification of teachers who can teach foreign languages in primary school. However, there is a problem with them that at a time of employment, one who ends up in a philosophy college and gets the same number of points as they do, has an advantage in employment, so that they simply find themselves in a more unfavourable position and ask that the problem be considered and solved, so please consider and see how to help these people not to be in a more unfavourable position compared to their own. A fellow graduate of the Faculty of Philosophy of Foreign Language. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33220	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33221	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Of course, but it is again a segment that passes into that part that is directly related to the Law on Education and Education, therefore, has no direct link to this Law of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but certainly the matter is very important and very important and we will definitely take account of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33222	And we're going with the last line, the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33223	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, sir, the amendments to the law are actually proposed to change the composition and number of members of the sectoral councils. Now there will be 9 of them, one of which says on the proposal of professional associations, commas, national alliances of people with disabilities. My question is aimed at a clear definition of that member, or whether this applies to associations, professional associations, so it can be either from the National Alliance of Persons with Disabilities or if you really wanted to be someone from the National Alliance of Persons with Disabilities in order to professionally advise their interest in this advice on persons with disabilities. Here, it's a specific question of an association with, for disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33224	Dear MPs, yes, refer to all this together, therefore they can be members in the sectoral councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33225	Thank you very much Minister, we've come to an end with replicas so you can return to your seat. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yeah. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, dear colleague Vesna Bedeković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33226	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished ministers with an associate. So the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is in accordance with Article. 97 The Rules of Procedure of the HS discussed this legislative proposal as a parent working body as we all know it, the reason for amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, was the Constitutional Court's application of 10 March 2018 with 3 separate opinions of the judges, which abolished the provision of equal levels of professional and university studies and legislative proposal, in this respect, stipulates 13 levels of full qualifications, where it places qualifications at the level of 6-ST through the completion of pre-graduate, and at the level of 6-SV qualifications acquired through completion of pre-graduate university studies. Similarly, at the level of the 7-1-ST study, qualifications obtained through the completion of specialist degree studies and at the level of 7-1-SV qualifications acquired through the completion of university graduate studies and integrated undergraduate and graduate studies. The members of the HS Education, Science and Culture Committee unanimously supported the adoption of this law, assessing first and foremost that its implementation will improve the binary system of higher education in the Republic of Croatia, and likewise, the adoption of this law is of exceptional importance for students and employers in the Republic of Croatia, as HKO represents a reform instrument that regulates the overall qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic of Croatia through qualifications standards based on learning outcomes and in line with the needs of the labour market, and also, members of the Committee have positively assessed solutions that change the role of sectoral councils to focus on strategic thinking in line with the needs of the labour market, as well as the needs of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33227	I thank my colleague Bedekovic and now we have a request for a break, my colleague Puljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33228	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS to further consult on this law, and to warn of some things as I have asked in my replica, so there is also a third complaint from the University of Zagreb to the Constitutional Court, since the Rector Boras continues to insist on his ideas of discrimination of professional studies. I would also like to comment on the situation at the University of Zagreb, i.e. it seems that the time has come for a shift, a long list of his sins which are now, behold, culminating and concealing cases of sexual harassment and vaccination here, across the line. The list is 30 dean members of the Senate asking for his shift, my only question is that they've waited until now. 6 years is the period during which the Rector Boras shames the University of Zagreb. It is a long list of his affairs, from the protection of Vice-President Ante Cicovic since his retirement, although he turned 71, a recent conflict with the Ministry of Science and Education over the enrolment of Croatian studies as a university in the Court Register without the consent of the ministry, three years ago we saw hundreds of students protesting the Council's decision to turn Croatian studies from centre to department, an affair over honorary doctorate to the Mayor Bandic, the University of Zagreb is probably the only university in the world that sued its student because, according to instructions in the suit, he gave a statement by journalists regarding the break-in of the Student Assembly. So at this point, we're preparing to include a point on the rector's shift to the Senate because the 30 deans have expressed concern for the state. At the university, my question of what were they waiting for so far? [[Intruder: I thank my colleagues, Puljak.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33229	My colleague Puljak, what you've been saying has nothing to do with what we're discussing today, you know very well, but I'm going to approve it. Is there anyone else interested in taking a break? No, I don't. Then I'll see you at 10 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's 10.09 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] The first is the respected counterpart Darko Klasic, the club of HSLS representatives and reformists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33231	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today is a great day for all students and students in the Republic of Croatia, students who have been waiting in suspense for this day, almost a year and are terrified of their qualifications. Today, they can devote themselves to what they needed, learning, and studying. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has recognised this problem and has proposed a better quality proposal for this law. The cause of the problem is actually in the constitutional lawsuit where on 10 March last year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decided on the suspension of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and, on the basis of that decision, abolished part of the law in a way that discriminated and discredited students of professional and specialist studies in relation to those university studies. The argument given by this court decision was completely separate from life's reality and is contrary to EU policies and practices and to the European Qualifications Framework. In most EU countries, such a scenario is absolutely impossible, and the EU recommends the use of the ECO in order to achieve the fundamental principles of the functioning and operation of the EU. Such as cross-border mobility, i.e. in this case freedom of movement in education, where there are equal and uniform standards that oppose individual structures. But why were these students currently over 50,000 in the Republic of Croatia ever to be anxious over the education, effort and time they invested in their education and study? At this point, it should be said that he has his own name and name, this is about the Rector Damir Boras and Proctor Tonchi Lazibat of the University of Zagreb. The Rector Boras, along with all the affairs that follow him and despite the actions that in each organised academic community would be the reason for the current shift, for years of brightness and clothing in the same academic community. While the University of Zagreb is apparently stagnating against other Croatian universities, the Rector Boras and the proctor of Lazibat deal with discrimination against their own students and the improvement and quality of studies, which is their primary goal, their role. Perhaps the laymen will think that professional studies in the Republic only perform higher education and higher schools. No, Your Honor, that's not true. Professional studies in Croatia carry out all public universities in Croatia, and even a law school that formally and initiated the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the previous law under the Constitutional Court. Is there anything more hypocritical than the fact that individual rectors, deans, enroll students, receive money both from the state or from the students themselves, and then ask the court to show their diplomas less valuable so that they can be cut off on the labour market. This is only part of the picture that shows all the illogicalness of the good part of the Croatian university community. Just imagine how students and their parents feel, where many families often separate it from their mouths to give their children education and the future, so that these same universities, university institutions will dispute their education. And then we wonder why the young flee this country. You'd think of only one public appearance by Vice-President Tony Lazibat on the TV show Search which... In early December this question, when he spoke to students and students rarely seen underestimating and patronizing ways of comparing their knowledge, learning, effort and pain and working with 300 liters of water, or 300 liters of juice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder how it's possible that people who treat those who should be role models in this way can be a moral role model for future generations. Every year, the Republic of Croatia allocates significant resources to the higher education system and we must not allow anyone to change themselves and their institutions because of lack of ideas, students to be someone's toys, as well as the state in which study passes in fear, uncertainty and legal uncertainty solely because of the whim of a few people from the top of the academic community. But when they break this law convinced that they keep their... and defend against changes that are inevitable in higher education, as if they refuse to understand that no normal political option will accept and refer to any proposal in the procedure that would not, in any way, discriminate against current students, diplomats and any future students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I invite you to support this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which unequivocally gives you the knowledge of what is at the very heart of the Bologna process, which is that professional and university studies are different but equally valuable. Let us send a clear message to the oscillating structures in the Croatian academic community that our children's fate can no longer play at the expense of Croatian citizens. I thank both this way and all students and students of the 300 = 300 initiative that they were not passive observers and were constantly pointing to the complexity and importance of this law and that I am pleased to conclude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized it and referred it to us in the bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33232	Thank you, too. Please just delete the pay phone. After that, the Club of Representatives of Most and two MPs, respected counterparts Kujundzic and Petrov, will speak. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33233	Thank you, Mr. Jandrokovic, the Honorable Mr. Bukarica, the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, we welcome the actual definition of actually the status of professional studies. Also, the categories and levels that you have changed this proposal have actually made professional studies and relations with them much fairer and fairer than they were. If we look from the parent dimension, in fact, we have made their investment in their children equally valuable, but the key starting point of any form of speech, when we talk about professional qualifications, is the knowledge behind certain qualifications and the said knowledge, the fact is that someone as such should also pass it on. However, one who conveys knowledge in Croatia is not at the level at which it is in more developed societies. I would also touch the very part of the registration quotas because we all know that we have a certain form of overcrowding of certain systems with certain qualifications, i.e. calls, and failure in other systems. And it's actually one form or one indicator as far as they're completely excluded is actually one form of the labour market in defining the registration quotas themselves. Therefore, Croatia has the second highest rate of emigration of young educated people to the EU, which is a particular questionnaire and should also be a questionnaire to this Holy House, and to the Government, and especially to the restoring ministry. What I would particularly touch is the sector in which I spent 14 years, which is therefore basic and secondary education and qualifications within it. So I started with knowledge holders, so all those in a particular system are tasked with achieving and achieving the outcomes set up. Unfortunately, in Croatia, for these valuable people, we have a picture that most often it's about earrings in the public services that see miracles, four months of rest, and three hours a day. It's been going on for years, which leads us to the conclusion that this is exactly what someone wanted. In other words, someone in this country corresponds to their own status quo educational staff. Instead of the skills of teaching, the minors on a weekly basis come up with robotic curricula, which is important only to the number of actually qualification definitions, and certainly not the one who is the bearer of the whole story. The quality of actually education and education for many years does not have a clear vision or strategy, and even the goal already happens sometimes a single flash, as in this proposal has happened, a flash of equalization of something that should have been legally defined long ago, and in the end, of all these individual flashes being one great of course, nothing. So we have a system where we don't have standards, both in human resources and in infrastructure terms where we have specific buildings where the process of education is happening, not just today, but in 2000, it's been minorly questionable. If we go back to the 2006 HNOS that lasted shorter than the average duration of ice cream in the child's hand and through the National Strategy, very clearly when we underline in the common denominator there is one big minus. Therefore, the flexibility of programmes and content, the unification and continuity of a whole series of regulations and regulations, etc., etc., which should all actually culminate in the return of one social status which all those working in the process of education once upon a time was and was worth as such. And before, of course, I let my colleague Petrova go, I think that Boras is actually a mirror of co-ordination and politics versus education in this country, which is a kind of must if we want to have an independent quality education that will produce experts who will actually wear this society today and tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33234	Thank you. Please stop the time and now he will speak to his colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33235	... The law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework puts this on a fair basis for the third time and returns things to the right place. [[Specially enabled.]] And it balances both the need for professional and university studies, and thus the value for the social community equally. They may be educated for different directions, but society is equally important. The question is what is a university and others have twice tried to repeal such legal provisions, that they are trying to put expert studies on a lower level by filing a constitutional suit when they themselves based on these same universities and the same professional studies. Looking just ethically, it's not fair. Have you legally allowed these professional studies to be established? Yes, it is. Have you given these same professional studies through educational institutions? Yes, it is. Did those same universities start those professional studies? They did. And if something like this could be lifted, then the legal certainty of the state doesn't exist because it actually means that the state can guarantee you by law that you have the right to 20 years after a certain subsidy to take credit, you take credit and the state after 2 years says we've thought a little bit, the rules don't apply anymore, here, now the new rules apply, your obligations are bigger, I'm sorry, you took credit. That's it. And it can refer to any thing in the state. Now, the question is, do we have a legal state, do we have any security law in this country, or is everything fluid and subject to the occult games? I want Croatia as a safe, legal state. In addition, from an educational point of view it is unfair because students of professional studies must meet the same conditions as students of university studies, yes, 300 is 300, very simple. And about the exclusivity of doctoral studies they're trying to do now, that's just a special story. Dear boys, you want the students of doctoral studies, you can't get them by law enforcement, but by the quality of your professors' education and teaching program. End of story. The biggest problem is neither framework nor sublegal acts nor legal acts, the problem is the quality of people and the number of quality people. And it seems to me that every new twist, the new circle of that educational cycle in that rotation and circle, remains much worse. And they circle and they circulate and they recycle and I'm not talking about the level of some elementary school teacher from 1st to 4th grade, I'm talking about creme de la creme education system in Croatia, about those who have been in the last 20, 30 years and ministers and deans and rectors and their assistants, those who need to direct our education, about them. As I see it, the reach of these people is obviously to agree to sell technical aids in the four years of their term of office. And that's it. And the fact that the level of education, the rank of our universities, the university achieves literally the speed of free fall, I don't see it touching them too much. And that should actually be their role and responsibility. Do I need to talk about the state of the university when it's the best picture of who's president of the university council? Notorna Luka Burilović. And I don't think we should talk about it any further. But I don't think I'm just the HGK problem, we have more HGKs in the state. I believe that the same picture, the same frame of conduct and action, would be found in other institutions that serve as an extension cable to rule with the already intended places to include the deserved first fighters. And then the hand beats the menus, these same institutions write such wonderful projects that these ministries have to reward them with millions of amounts, and then these same institutions like the HGK, send their people through councils, senates and others to control the same institutions. In the eye all formal, clean, all full of gnaws. And what is happening today in education is not the result of education, the consequences of bad policy, and we need to be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33236	Thank you, too. Let's go to the third debate, Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Bakic, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33237	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. By decision of the Constitutional Court of 10 March 2020, Art. Paragraph 2 of point 2 of paragraph 7 of the amending and supplementing Act on HKO. Behind this dry introduction, there is actually an item that needs to be declared in HKO's postgraduate professional and specialist degree studies. However, I would like to remind you immediately of the opinion expressed in a separate opinion of five judges. That that decision was deeply wrong. First of all, it cannot be argued that university studies directly enable the active scientific work of not apriori while professional studies acquire exclusively technical knowledge. In other words, it is not acceptable and priorities to deny professional studies the ability to provide or build highly specialised knowledge. Nor is it true that university studies only train students to do work in science, art and higher education or to develop and implement scientific and artistic achievements, nor is it right to claim that professional studies train students only for direct inclusion in the work process. On the other hand, the setting of university and professional studies at the same level of the qualification framework does not jeopardise the substantive distinction of these studies. Such an understanding is mostly imposed from some narrow university circles and quite particular interests. The bill of law before us was therefore a difficult task. Formally position professional studies in HKO in a fair and coherent manner in a narrow space that leaves the Constitutional Court's decision. Because professional and university studies are clearly different types of studies, differ in content and learning outcomes but are equally valuable since there is no difference in volume, in particular the number of ECTS points they carry. The bill sets out two new levels of qualifications, by adding SV and ST shortcuts but clearly states the equivalent of university and professional studies. They are not only treated in an adequate way but also, firstly, there is a clear difference with regard to the passing towards higher levels because the conditions of access to doctoral studies, which is 8.2, the possession of qualifications at 7.1 SV level and secondly, we fit into a European educational space or a European qualification framework which, let us not forget that, puts our students in an equal position with their colleagues from other countries of the Union. For all this, we will uphold this law, this proposed law. And in the end, please let me say two more things. There was no reason for us to wait so long with this law. And we unnecessarily bring unrest into our education and public space at all. Similarly, if not an identical solution had already been proposed from the opposition circles, we could have helped that way before. And I think it's deeply wrong to reject opposition proposals just because they're opposition and then redistribution and placement of these same proposals as majority ones. And secondly, in a relatively short time, this same parliament, however, in a changed composition, discusses the same problem, and I am very confident that it will once again adopt a positive, progressive proposal, not from the same government but from something changed but from the government under the chairmanship of the same prime minister. So, second time in a relatively short time, spending social energy just to neutralize the retrograde and reactive action of our academic community, gathered around the notorous leadership of the University of Zagreb. The works of the academic community representing the interests of a narrow group in the university in the social field, which positioning and affirmation of their university studies, in particular their extraordinary university studies, remarkable in terms not in terms of excellent but in technical terms of extraordinary, therefore works of the university community which affirmates their university and their extraordinary university studies, seeks and tries to find in the degradation of professional studies. It is an action in favour of therefore particular interests even when what a few colleagues have already said before, even when such an action is directly at the expense of students of their own colleges and their own university. The only real way to solve this problem is to ask ourselves about the quality of these same studies, it won't solve a single qualification framework, so it's up to us, on educational authorities, that Mr. Minister, a special responsibility, is actually a little bit more serious to work on the quality of our education system as a whole and especially this university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33238	Thank you. So now we'll move on to the fourth debate, the SDP Representatives' Club and respected colleague Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33239	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs and MPs. Yes, the SDP club had already proposed, more specifically in November we referred to the procedure of the amendment of the HKO Act just in order not to welcome now in February and to fill that legal gap that had been brought into effect by the Constitutional Court's decision of 1. 1. 2021. By rejecting our proposal of the HKO Act and the committee meetings and not putting them in the process for a long time, I would say, the copying of the resolution ministry really doesn't bother us, we're actually glad that we encouraged them to solve the fate of 105 000 students, 55,000 of those who have completed, 50,000 students of professional studies that are still studying, and if it's simply a practice that we're going to have to have, that we propose a first-quality legal solution, that then we reject and prescribe what we've done, we don't mind, if it's some kind of modus operand, but this has just shown that Croatia needs a long-term agreement on education, an agreement that won't change every 4 years, and an agreement that won't even be based on a political key, regardless of which the minister is, regardless of which the Prime Minister will be, simple agreement that comes to the hands of all the educated young people in our country. I am sorry that such a thing is not recognised in the National Development Strategy, which is not put as a priority, which is not a priority for education for all, therefore education in which each person is equal and hence, which is not marked as one long-term priority. Of course, we all have concerns and we don't trust the Rector Boras and the deans of law school that they won't press charges against the Constitutional Court again, but I have a nice message for them. So they like professional studies when they fit, there's something called art. 74. The law on scientific activity and higher education and then you have a nice rector Boras and all the components of the Zagreb University including law schools, when you need to run a study programme for which at that moment there are not enough personnel, space, equipment, you know what they do? Then they ask for the consent of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and firstly, they start these programs as experts, so they're enough to get 30% of the teaching classes to cover themselves with their own staff, they don't need college holders, they've got scientific calling, they can only be in teaching, and then they're fine with it for a couple of years as professional studies as long as they're fit, and then here they grow into university studies, and then they're also suing the Constitutional Court and they complain that professional studies aren't equal. Well, it can't be. So we're going to fight it hard and we're going to end it. They can write a lawsuit as much as they want, but it's clear to all of us from what we've already had a chance to hear here today and that's 5 separate opinions drawn up in 3 opinions of the Constitutional Court judges who have taxed that it's actually the only problem in the heads of these people who continue to treat professional studies as less valuable. So here today we have a fire measure for students of professional studies and we're sort of solving their situation, they've been brought to a dead end, but this story is not the end, we have another problem that will be believed, so very soon also in this assembly, and that's the problem of postgraduate specialist studies. Today, for example, 194 specialist studies are held at the University of Zagreb. On average, each study costs between 30 and 60 000 kn and largely these students are raising loans to pay for it, but they get one big nothing after the study ends. one big zero. So they pay for the study, between £30 and 60,000, and they don't have the same rights as they used to have masters of science. We do not claim that the master's degree of science is equal or that it should be level 8 such as postgraduate specialist studies, but these students are promised by the university and by the holders of these studies when they enroll, that they will achieve a salary supplement, that they will be better ranked in society and they do nothing of that. This problem has been solved since 2003, since it is no longer possible to obtain a degree of science master's degree and even addressed by all those students who are several thousand, have addressed the commission for interpreting a collective contract that only said should be started from the public sector, from the rest of the ministry and should be placed in a basic collective contract supplementing the wages they once had, continue to be achieved by the masters of science even though that degree is no longer possible. So I can't agree with the minister when he says it's up to the employers. The public sector should be the first example to sit down with the unions, when these students already paid nicely 50a-thousands of kuna, I repeat, a large part of it, they had to raise loans to pay for that study, they had high expectations of such a study and a study programme, and then they got one big nothing. So I think the first resolution ministry has to sit at the union table and show its example and put into a basic collective contract for officials and subsistences in public services, in order to achieve that 8% supplement. So nothing less than that is acceptable to us and the rector Boras with his click can repeat myself, appeal to the constitutional court, but he does what he does, so when a professional study fits him, then conducts them alone at his university, and when he complains about what they call himself, his higher-ranking click, then he decides to write the lawsuits. I'll just say that the binary education system that involves equal professional and university studies successfully implemented countries like Germany, Austria, Finland and Belgium where university and professional studies at the same level of education. I have to make it very close to Austria that has a youth unemployment rate of 5% to 6%, and there are exactly these professional studies I will dare say, even more valued, are therefore more priced because they mean that the student in that study has achieved more practice and that in their economy is much, much more appreciated than it is for the university. I must also say that there is a legal gap here related to the very law on quality assurance in science and higher education, since our Agency for Science and Higher Education and members of the European Association and it is therefore implementing accreditation and re-accreditation of study programmes and this legal gap itself, and today we are in an air-exploited space actually disrupting and taking over the commitments made by the Republic in accordance with the acquis of the EU as well as the obligations we have received when we have joined the European high education area. So once again, I call on the Ministry of Resort to sit at the table, if so, with all the high school leaders, to reach a compromise and to simply be finally understood in their heads that professional studies are no less valuable than university studies, however, they must be equally ranked as university studies. I really hope that the fate of these 105 000 people, 55 who have already finished, 50 who are still studying, will serve us all together for what I listed at the beginning, which is a long-term and quality agreement on education regardless of political colour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33240	We will now listen to the fifth debate, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, will speak to the esteemed colleague Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33241	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At first, I might explain to the citizens who are watching, which is HKO. This is therefore a document that solves the overall qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic of Croatia, establishes qualifications standards for all occupations, is based on learning outcomes, are in line with labour market needs and comparable to job qualifications in other countries. With the development of a qualification framework, started in 2006, the law was passed in 2013. This type of qualification framework is therefore not specific to Croatia, there are other countries that have professional and university studies, e.g. Germany, Austria, here we mentioned Finland, Belgium, Great Britain. The new Croatian qualification framework is consistent with the European framework, and it has 8 levels. For each level, it is defined what knowledge, skills, achievements and burdens are needed, or what qualifications, and qualifications include everything a person has achieved in their formal and informal education. At the 7th level, all who had completed professional and university studies were found, which is why the University of Zagreb, namely the Rector Boras and 4 Law Schools, filed a constitutional suit in 2015. At the University of Zagreb, they felt that at the same level they could not be doctors of science, graduate engineers, professional specialists, in their complaint to the Constitutional Court, claimed that learning outcomes at university and professional studies were completely different, citing that only university students had such learning outcomes where they were thinking creatively and innovatively. The Rector Boras and 4 Law Schools actually require that professional studies be at a lower level of qualification despite equal ship ECTS points. This story actually brings us to a paradox where university rectors support such changes in the law, while these same universities perform professional studies programmes, while directly discriminating their own students. The students made it clear to them through the 300=300 initiative. In the Qualifications Framework, qualifications are classified by species and by species, it is true that in the Qualifications Framework they are acquired through a professional and university study of the same level, but there are different species, and therefore there is no speech on the equalisation of those qualifications. Anyway, 2016. The Constitutional Court made the first decision on which professional and university studies could not be at the same level, in 2018 amendments to the Qualifications Framework Act were made, 11 levels of qualifications were introduced, however, again the University of Zagreb and all the law schools in Croatia launched a new requirement for the assessment of constitutionality and that amended law. A new decision of the Constitutional Court was taken in 2020 and therefore professional and university studies cannot be at the same level as undergraduate and graduate and the deadline for adoption was until the end of last year. We don't see any reason why here are late these and a few months, is it possible that because the opposition proposed this previous law, and the law being late represents problems for students who have already completed schooling, they are in a working relationship, is it not known how employers will react to that legal void. Here is now the new draft law, which introduces 13 levels of qualifications, except that such a proposal meets the requirements laid down through the Constitutional Court's decision, also allows for the distinction between the passage of university studies, since the conditions of accession to postgraduate, or doctoral studies, are level 8-2, possession of qualifications at 7-1-SV or university level. HKO is one of the few good laws in Croatia, which is a strong instrument in linking the education system and the labour markets, but some want to display it as an end to university autonomy, and all to lower professional studies to a lower level of qualification. As he commented on the e-Council, the rector Boras continues to insist on his ideas of discrimination against professional studies, so I asked if a new constitutional lawsuit was expected again. University and professional studies need each other and their cooperation is necessary for the full development of education. A knowledge-based economy needs to be launched and an education system should be created for a future that is equally valuable in each developed country for university and professional studies. One of the important purposes of this law is to coordinate with foreign qualifications, they say plastically, here is that one engineer of construction in Croatian professional, with a Croatian professional diploma, to know what his parallel qualification is in Germany. From the commentary in a public debate, here I'm going to quote it, imagine that all the directors of the gymnasium apply to the Constitutional Court to put the gymnasium at a higher qualification level than the level of four-year vocational schools and to say, an excellent student, for example. secondary economic school will be disabled because it does not have the necessary professional training. Well, that's exactly the kind of stupid thing that Boras does for college education. It's a shame that we're discussing this today. It's a shame that the Constitutional Court supports this kind of nonsense. It is a shame that Croatian students of professional studies have to go outside for a postgraduate study, it is a shame that other countries recognise their diploma, while the "blind one" reduces their value. It is a shame that the degree of professional studies is more valuable in Slovenia than in Croatia, it is a shame that respected university professors compare professional and university studies with 300 liters of juice and 300 liters of water. As much as it bothers a particular lobby and their interests, 300 is 300. 300 is 300 in Europe, it should also be in Croatia, finished quote. As I said, the rector Boras continues to insist on his ideas of discrimination of professional studies, and I think that the time for, as I said, the shift of the rector Boras, here rises quite a hack. It's a long list of his sins that are now here, culminating in the cover-up of a case of sexual harassment, with this ridiculous inoculation of the children's and preventive dentistry clinic, whether, as a coincidence, he was found where there were extra vaccines, so here's who we're going to, let's go to Borasa and his wife. So Damir Boras has been at the head of the University of Zagreb for 6 years now in the second term and these 6 years the era of his disgrace is the reputation of the University of Zagreb. Protector Ante Cicovic from his retirement even though he was 71 years old, so he has been trying for years to prevent this illegal employment of his. Recent conflict with the Ministry of Science and Education, Croatian studies were enrolled in the Court Register as a university in the court register without the consent of the ministry, which is why the Ministry of State's Attorney's Office sent a proposal to file a complaint. Three years ago, we saw hundreds of students protesting the council's decision to turn Croatian studies from the centre into a department, not to mention that shameful affair since the award of the honorary doctorate, Mr Bandic. What do you say about that? The university is also an unprecedented act on the globe, sued its own student for damages of 20,000 kn. So at this point, the 30 Deans, members of the Senate, are looking for his shift, so it's ready to sign off on the rector's shift point because they're concerned about the devastation of the university's reputation. It takes 36 votes out of 70. I'm just wondering, from this place, where have these people been? In the past election, his opponent, the man of complete opposition to the rector Boras, so they gave 15 votes. Where were they all these six years during all these embarrassing decisions, during the disgrace of this university, what were they doing? Croatia is a victim of silence and non-refoulement policy, shut up and turn its head against illegality, corruption, clienteleism, for what? Is it doing some kind of threshold or fear to say it's not my job to report a mess is just being involved in creating a mess. It is time for the Rector Boras to leave and the University of Zagreb finally gets a rector or rector who will restore the destroyed reputation and push him forward in the 22nd century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33242	Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33243	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the HKO Act with a final draft of the law, so an emergency procedure, in the first and second readings and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support this proposal. I will remind you again that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Zagreb on 10 March 2020, with three separate opinions of the Constitutional Judges, has taken a decision that adopted the proposal of the University of Zagreb and the Faculty of Law for the Assessment of Constitutionality with the Constitution of certain articles of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HKO and namely, the decision was abolished. Paragraph 2 of the second paragraph of paragraph 2 of the Law, amending and supplementing the law in the act, which reads as "pre-graduate professional studies", and is also abolished. Paragraph 2 of point 2 of the second indent 8 in the section of the ‘specialistic degree studies’. What does that mean? Therefore, the provisions which recognise expert studies within the framework of the HKO and, of course, following such a decision of the Constitutional Court were necessary in an appropriate manner to include expert studies in the HKO and therefore the basic objective of this legislative proposal, the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of 10 March 2020 or the regulation of a constitutionally acceptable legal solution which would fully be followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court and in this sense is expected to achieve a consensus of all stakeholders, and certainly what is most important, to avoid possible further constitutional claims and further recommendations on the status of professional studies in HKO which unfortunately persist from the adoption of the HKO Act itself in 2013. I must stress when it comes to professional studies that let's not forget that there are studies here that study about 20% of the total number of higher education people in the Republic of Croatia, or slightly less than 6% of all population of the Republic of Croatia, and that we have slightly less than 40 higher universities that perform professional studies. And these are very important indicators, these are not just numbers. These are real young people who are the future of this country and, therefore, from this pay phone on their own behalf and on behalf of all representatives and representatives of the HDZ Club, I welcome all students who study at higher education schools in Croatia, not only at higher schools and higher schools but also at universities and universities perform professional studies and so on, I give my regards and support to all professors, professors, teachers who teach in vocational studies and all those who are high-school employees who perform vocational studies. The proposed law, and this is my message to all of them, does not affect the status issues of the address, nor does their acquired qualifications question, but they position themselves on the levels of the HKO and the European qualification framework and certainly represent a transmission to the European labour market. We have already explained this, I will only briefly repeat that, taking into account the assessment of the Constitutional Court, this law, instead of the existing 12, establishes 13 levels of full qualifications and that Article. 2. As a result, qualifications obtained through the completion of vocational studies at pre-graduate and graduate level are placed at different levels compared to qualifications obtained through the completion of university studies at pre-graduate and graduate level, with the level of qualifications acquired through the completion of undergraduate vocational studies, or level 6 ST, differing from the level of qualifications acquired from the level of qualifications obtained from the level of pre-graduate university studies or level 6 SV and, in the same way, the levels of qualifications obtained by the completion of specialist vocational studies, which are thus 7.1 SV level, and so that this proposal meets the requirements set out in the Constitutional Court Decision and thus makes it possible for a clear difference in all pre-graduate and graduate studies to be completed with all backgrounds. What is also to be pointed out, with the complete abandonment of professional studies under the HKO Act would be impossible to enroll standards related to professional studies in the Register of HKO and, therefore, the aim of increasing the quality and passivity of Croatian higher education set in the national reform programme and, in that sense, this law represents the same instrument of quality assurance and, of course, is fully governed by relevant issues related to the HKO and, of course, will enable faster and more effective implementation of reform processes aimed at increasing the quality and transparency of higher education in the Republic and, of course, further to the experience of the implementation of the qualification framework so far, this law also introduces necessary changes in terms of improving efficiency and simplification and the process of enrollment of interest standards and standards in the Register of HKO, and we consider that these legislation are also important in terms of the body's competences and protection in terms. I have already been asked here about the opposition proposal of this same law, I need to stress that in the work relating to the placement of qualifications at the level of HKO, the Government's proposals and therefore the opposition are fundamentally consistent as the additional changes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia differ, these are those relating to further development and implementation of the HKO and key reform processes, so above all to the granting of competence to existing agencies in the system of education and education, higher education, evaluation procedures, the adoption of standards of interest, the role of sectoral councils as well as the role of education agencies as independent professional bodies, so this is the fundamental difference between the opposition proposal and the proposal of this law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in conclusion, as I said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal, with the emphasis that when it comes to the future of professional and university studies, regardless of where they are taking place, they differ by content, by outcomes but are equally valuable, their future lies primarily in the emphasis on quality and improvement of quality systems related to initial accreditation, re-accreditation of study programmes and high schools where these programmes take place and set up and ultimately, what is most important, supporting and strengthening the binary system of education for which the Republic of Croatia has strategically defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33244	Thank you. Now let's go to the last debate of the club, it'll be the House of Commons Club and the esteemed colleague Bartulic, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33245	I would like to thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, colleague and colleague. The final debate on this forced collection of membership fees in the Chamber of Commerce has shown how much the rulings are actually willing to make an effort to protect the status quo, that small changes are difficult at all, and that is my experience in the field of science, also confirms that great effort is being made to protect the status quo and interests of individual groups that, through the institutions of our own protection above all, prevent in various ways of competition, healthy competition, and unfortunately experience confirms this especially when this topic, therefore we have nothing against Croatia adapting to the EU criteria, the minister mentioned that this is in line with the reform processes, however, it is all right, but the question is whether we are actually protecting these measures in time the key national interests. We see today in the paper another headline that Croatia is second in line in the EU to emigrate people, so whatever we do, we need to be aware that the first interest is actually to enable our people here who are learning to achieve themselves, that they can live in a country of prosperity. However, when we adapt to the EU like this, we can, paradoxically, sound it, but to speed up the departure of our people in some way, we need to be aware of that and that is why reforms are really important. Here, I can speak from personal experience when I came to Croatia from America after I finished studying waiting for me nostration, I didn't know what it all meant then, I handed over the papers, I translated them, etc., then for months I listened to the subject in the process of solving, I didn't understand it until the end then what it means, how long it could take, but in time I learned and realized how things work here and thank God, this institution of nostrification goes much faster today and as far as I know, people rarely complain when they come back from the world here to work. However, something he would say about the lack of will for real reforms, I think it's clear to all of us that we don't stand very well on the ranking lists. Our University of Zagreb, which has a pretty big influence in Croatia, is not good, and I would say that in some ways, it is a place where different stakeholders find and protect and oppose each competition. So I know that, I'm not going to name these sensitive ones right now, I'd say, cases that may still be current, but about issuing a permit for new studies, I know firsthand that in various ways political pressures are being made to challenge, disable, etc. And that's not good, we need more competition, not less. The parent board, e.g. for a new university, which is created, which is to be affirmed, parent committees which decide on the advancement of scientists can also be used to prevent or stop the progress of other people who represent institutions that may be in competition with those who represent people on those committees, and that is the problem. So we need less regulation, as a professor at the Croatian Catholic University, I, in my opinion, spent too much time filling out various forms, how many students were present every week at class, etc., and it all burdens people in the academic community, unfortunately. So it's not just a thing in Croatia, it's usually a phenomenon after the Bologna process, but it's a question of what's the purpose of this great paperwork, of collecting forms, etc., and I'm going to repeat, we're not best at these results, here, in preparation for this topic I've been looking at a little bit of what's been said lately, and also the results of our high school students from mathematics and other areas, are much worse than 20 or 30 years ago, so the question is what's going on here? There is a lot of talk about the land of knowledge, about Croatia as a country of science, should be more isolated, etc., but there are no results unfortunately. I would also refer to this issue of professional studies, I think it's very bad that once again a certain institution to protect its false prestige creates a new uncertainty for many students. This is a very bad message for them, they wrote these studies, expecting that after completion they will be able to compete on the labour market, and problems arise in the meantime. I hope that this legislative proposal will remove it, however, this very phenomenon is causing concern, concern and I say, I think that we need to put less hope and trust in all these strong norms, regulations, everything is prescribed to the final score, but our people are leaving, and even later when they begin to see so much injustice and indifference in Croatia that it is easier to go and find a job outside of Croatia to leave, so in science, I would say despite health, these are sectors that are least reformed, in Croatia. And we need to talk about it openly. Here, we have to talk about it openly, this legal proposal is one, I'd say, a small step, but it's more fulfilling one bureaucratic form, and we need to look at the content. So we need to welcome healthy competition, we need to comply with the principles of freedom, the free world, we see that where universities that are best ranked, that is, above all, America and Britain, we need to learn from these countries and I can say firsthand that there is great competition for the best scientists, great competition. So it's not easy to get to the cathedral, become authority, etc., it's not easy because there's, like I said, great competition, and even freedom, which here is missing, missing again because various groups want to keep the status quo and the status quo costs us. He's costing us. So when I hear the word stability in Croatia, it immediately points me to something actually bad for our citizens, our stability is not a sign of some achievement, but in fact many, in many issues political elites have failed. Here, so, I think we should continue to put pressure on these things to finally start changing, that the best can really advance in freedom without false authority holding them back and here, the Homeland Movement in this sense will support any proposal that leads to reform of this system that is slowly adapting, here, to world trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33246	All I'm asking is that we clean up the pay phone and now we're starting individual debates, there are 10 of them, first order of business is to be honored colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33247	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Why do we today have this amendment to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework? Because it was the Constitutional Court's verdict that, as a result of a lawsuit initiated by Mr. Boras, who has been mentioned so many times, because if it hadn't been for that verdict, I don't think that I would have had an amendment and an addition to this law, maybe the ministry would have concluded that some things should be improved, but that was the reason. We have to ask ourselves what we really want. Whether we want to have Croatia, a country where children can be educated, where children can progress, where children can decide what they will study, so someone will decide on university studies, someone will decide on a professional study, someone will decide on something else, or we want to have a country like Mr. Boras obviously imagines in which he cheers and dresses there, and then also be prepared and awarded some honorary doctorate for certain services, Mr. Bandic, but I will really not waste any more time or breath on it but let's actually see what we want. Because if we want to have a country where everyone has certain opportunities, then in that country we need to provide really several kinds of studies and give each other the opportunity to get the knowledge they need, but also, we need to really keep an eye on it, the reform is already so many times we mentioned it, but let's see the role model of some other countries, let's see what other countries are doing, let's have these expert studies closely related to the needs of the markets. Remember how many times we discussed shipbuilding? I ask you, if there is no shipbuilding in Croatia, and we have a shipbuilding study, we also have high schools, for which jobs do we educate these children? ... We're training them to go out and work somewhere, get them out of here right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to admit, I'm always talking about some of the experiences we have. I graduated from architecture, when I studied architecture, there was only one study in the city of Zagreb. One who could not enroll in Zagreb, enrolled in Sarajevo, Ljubljana, somewhat rare in Belgrade, but Sarajevo and Ljubljana. Today there are some more studies and then I had opportunities to be in Poland and then I saw in Poland that one dukedom of Poland has four different studies of architecture and I am now asking you, one day when a competition will be opened for, say, some supervisory engineers at the restoration of Bania and Banovina, the same rights will have those engineers, or who have completed the architecture of the University of Zagreb and those who are for some kind of dukedom in Poland, I do not want to say at any time that these knowledge is somewhat smaller and then when you have the possibility of some professional studies in Croatia, why we do not at all prevent them to be some professional studies, because for a simple reason, let's see first, we have a National Development Strategy, what kind of country we want to be, which we want Croatia, therefore, to be in the economy, not only 2030, and today we have, not only high school but also high education for the normal study, then we'll have a normal study, and we'll have a normal study. So everything is connected to each other, if you know what Croatia is like in 2050, 2030, then today you already have secondary education and education in higher education and professional studies. Those who want to enroll, give an opportunity for everyone to write down what they feel is ready and what they want. Imagine, the worst thing in your life that could happen to you to finish something and do a job you don't like. Well, no one's going to do a job you don't like, you're going to break up with a husband or wife or a partner, you're going to change. So, with all this together, there's another big topic that I'm really going to talk about every time, lifelong education, requalification, all the other stuff. So, give an opportunity, not slave with normal norms, see how things change, things change Much faster than we're prepared to follow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33248	Thank you very much. You have three replicas, first order of business, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you have touched the problems of professional studies, of course, which is why we have amendments to the law, but there is a deeper problem, which is that I have a feeling that our professional studies have happened, that even now we don't know what to do with them, now we'd rather forget them or, at least some of us would rather forget. But if you look at the West and look at how many people are studying after the first degree, or baccaureate, you'll see that the percentage is very small of those who are even mastering, let alone those who are still doctoring. So our students most often because of the inability to find work or unrecognizable, still, qualifications on the labour market are sometimes re-educed. And on the other hand, you have professional studies, so-called The binary system as it exists in Germany which we have also managed to spray and lead to unrecognizableness and in fact the meaning of the binary system, at least in Croatia, is completely lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33251	Thank you very much. So what we are able to do, so when it comes to any branch, area, we can absolutely be European and world champions in all of this. How did the first professional studies come into being? They came from higher schools. So we used to have colleges, we had more schools, I speak technical area because I understand that, in that I move. So you had a higher building and you knew that someone who finished a higher construction, would not get a status dipl.ing. As we've got it before he'll get the ring. And you have, so they were for high construction, for low construction, and from that later in the business, the construction heads formed, they formed themselves, they got certain knowledge, and according to these skills they could do certain jobs. This resulted in professional studies. So this when you went to university, then actually the topic of the university is that one day someone will go, be a scientist, And someone's gonna go to the construction site. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33252	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33253	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, you have very professionally explained this Qualification Framework in your presentation, but I am interested, do you think that the reason for stagnation is, and the good part and the lagging behind of our universities in their international evaluation and qualification, something that we have wrongly set out in the Qualifications Framework, or is the main problem in a negative selection in selecting individual rectors in their immoral, very often and illegal decisions for which we have long observed the silence of the entire Senate?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33255	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. So we can have perfect laws, we can have even more perfect sublegal acts, but it's always the key to the one who implements them. So, the Rector of the Zagreb University should have taken care of in his action that the Zagreb university is better off, to enter 500 universities, to be, to invite visiting professors, therefore, that's what you have when you study somewhere out there, so some studies outside need to be a role model, to have visiting professors, to be better, and not to deal with who's to be given honorary doctorate, not to deal with being surrounded by people who won't stand up to him at any time, not to deal with the prosecution of a particular student, so the Rector dealt with everything just not with what he needed, and he should deal with the Zagreb university being as good as possible, to be competitive with other universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33256	Let's go to the last line, fellow Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, president, colleague Mrak-Taritash, you mentioned the need to manage human potentials and some sort of co-ordination of registration policies, and there you were completely stabbed, as I would say, in the srid. If we take the assumption that this is a public good knowledge and education generator for our personal development, social prosperity and economic progress, then it is quite devastating that we fail as a state to direct human resources management in terms of the longer term needs of Croatian society, but unfortunately we lose the battle on one hand, the service of it all in profit and in certain interests, because how else do we explain the fact that admission policies, say high schools are more able to keep jobs in chambers, and knowingly educate young people for employment or higher education, where it is important to enroll and take tuitions, and there is no one to touch the registration policy because it is a domain, like you, those constitutional categories of university autonomy. How do you go on, what do you do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33258	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33259	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague. So, the key question is when we educate, whether it's high school, whether it's a professional study, whether it's a university, what do we educate these young people for? We need to educate them for some work. If we decide and if the conclusion is that the future of the Croatian economy is a pharmaceutical industry, that it's a certain IT sector, that, I don't know, at the end of the line, production, now I'm really going to say, auto parts, then already in high schools and in vocational studies and at the university we need to have studies for that. But when do we have to have them? Now. Because when they're done, they start working, if you're watching high school, if you're watching college, it's in 10 years. So now we need to know what we want to be in 10 years as Croatia, not educate people who will spend time, energy, effort, ultimately their money or state money, and then come and wave thumbs or more to educate them for another country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33260	Thank you, thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33261	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The idea of HKO is something that I was talking about in my first term, a commendable good, something that keeps up with the new moments in education in general, however, the implementation with us is what we can discuss, and this opportunity when we discuss amendments and amendments to the law is like that. I am a representative who already in a series of budgets, and I no longer know how much, 5, 6 and more, submits amendments for symbolic money that would go towards improving and further building this very system of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Of course, I don't have to tell you that these amendments are always rejected by reason that on the existing items from some EU projects, etc. He's got enough money. But what's that meaning of HKO that I don't see realized here? It is an extra-institutional acquisition of skills, knowledge and qualifications, and that is where I still think we are, we are stunted, where we are not yet up to the European market, or we still lack appreciation for the knowledge gained. We are trapped in the formal acquisition of knowledge and we do not actually see that society and market needs change too quickly, sometimes too quickly in most cases, already so quickly that formal institutions and formal education institutions simply cannot follow it. So what HKO should be serving is lifelong education. So perfecting which as an individual you must spend all the time in order to stay in your profession an expert because there is no profession that no longer changes so much that you can once finish formal school and say that you are an expert on everything you put ad acta, you forgot. The qualifications you get through work, and we all get through work because the simple demands of today's work are such that you often do and what you don't need in your contract description and it's not necessarily by qualifications, but it's just, I'd say, added value. And finally, what we appreciate very little too, which is volunteering. The culture of volunteering in Croatia is unfortunately still very, very low, and one way to encourage the development of a volunteering culture is precisely this, the development of skills and qualifications in an informal way. I can give you hundreds of examples, one of them is the Red Cross and their activists who go through different educations, from resuscitation, first aid to psychological help, etc., etc., so everything depends. So we can talk about that too. And unfortunately, it's the essence of HKO that I haven't seen yet that she came to life in that true sense of the word. We've been touching professional studies, but I'd like to touch something else here. I, colleagues and colleagues, along with some other agents if I'm not mistaken, carry one, I'd say Frankenstein's academic title, which is a university specialist, whatever that means. So Croatia is by a lot of what we have endemic species, but it also had endemic academic titles because we didn't translate the Bologna process into our education the way we were supposed to because according to our philosophy, you can still be academically perfected only vertically, not horizontally. I enrolled in a study after which I was supposed to be a master of the profession, eventually became a university specialist, whatever that means. And how to translate your title, your degree of education somewhere in the world? I have to earn the skills of adapting, explaining or lying. How? So, I'm not a master of the profession, I'm something more. I'm not a master of science, I'm a little less, and I'm not even a doctor of science. In fact, sometimes I don't know what I am anymore. And why is that? Because it's a basic Bologna principle, which is a horizontal improvement, which means that you can master mathematics, physics, chemistry, English and Turkish, if you want, we didn't simply respect and compose into our system right. So how are we going to build on this whole system if we couldn't do something like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33262	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33263	Your Honor, you mentioned the European market, here you asked me to ask you a question about the public debate that was about this law and the inscription which, that is, the letter that sent the law college that found out that this law was not complete, that the law did not fully respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that some decisions were still not respected, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is also said that there is a danger that the European Qualification Framework in which these qualifications have been equated is not really respected in the right way, given that the "science and research" component is missing. What do you think, what is your opinion, is there any possibility that perhaps our diplomas are not recognised in Europe and is there a possibility that this law will appear before the Constitutional Court again?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33264	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33265	Thanks, buddy. Speaking from experience, especially when we talk about the profession, so colleges, law schools, it's very possible that this law can be found before the Constitutional Court again in a year or two or when we can discuss it here again. But unfortunately, it's a little bit of a trademark, let me have a foreigner, these governments never get the job done right and never to the end. As far as the ECO is concerned, there are possibilities and there are fears, here, I tell you, I've talked about my experience, I don't know how I would show my academic title because I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an economist, I'm not a graduate of political science, this is an interdisciplinary study, and I can't even show the title, or I can't translate it, and I don't agree, I don't adapt, or I don't have to add a memorandum on explaining what it is, Frankenstein titled university specialist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33266	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33267	Thank you very much. So you mentioned in your exposure to lifelong education. Life-long education is extremely important, things change very quickly, we can't influence it and it's really something to take care of, it's Croatia when you take all EU countries, at the bottom but it's not weird. So this constitutional lawsuit and everything together has actually brought unrest. What message is sent to young people who are on a professional study when they know it was a constitutional lawsuit, when they know that part of the law of that constitutional suit has been asked that I have to change myself or otherwise when they're not sure when they're in the study when they're done with what's going to happen? So how do you go on telling them, but it's important that you educate yourself all your life, when the messages he's sent at this point, the current rector Boras along with this lawsuit is a message to these people you don't know what you're going to be when you're done?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33268	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33269	Thank you, fellow Dark-Taritash. Yeah, lifelong education is very important, as I said, you can't graduate from college anymore and think you've learned everything about your profession, no, it's just the beginning, I'd say. It's the end of the start of maybe your professional but also academic in some way work and life in the profession. As far as professional studies are concerned, I think it's clear to me that the university is concerned about the various reasons for the status of professional studies, but this way I don't see as actually healthy competition. When we took over the concept of professional and university studies, we should have taken over a clear concept of what it means and what it is a binary system. And I repeat, in Germany the binary system works perfectly, why can't it work with us? Because we're not capable of any system warping and one of the curvatures of this system is this law at all now that we're discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33270	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33271	Dear fellow director Boras is at the head of the University of Zagreb, the university which is the most in Croatia but is not among the 500 most successful universities in the world. After all the scandals surrounding the rector Boras, do you think he'll finally be replaced? The university council led by Luka Burilovic, otherwise the president of the HGK, decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33272	I would ask you to stick to the subject, please, and the theme is to remind you, HKO. Here you go, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thanks, buddy. Somehow, we cannot avoid the subject of the rectors because the university is what has filed a constitutional suit or rector, but speaking of this colleague, what you have specifically said, I would like more metricocracy in Croatia in general and that everyone's work is appreciated on the basis of results, achievements, not media inscriptions, new, old, like these affairs or this or that. Some of the achievements you've talked about, we could now discuss the University of Zagreb by tomorrow, it's not our ingenuity, and what time it will bring, we'll see. I say and I would like to conclude with that, I would like to see more metricocracy in these discussions and in assessing the success of the work of all institutions, as well as the rectors of the Zagreb University.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33274	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33275	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We talked a lot through the discussions about professional university studies, the importance of professional studies, their equal value. I'll have a few words about the binary system in Croatian higher education. The Bologna Declaration introduced the binary system into higher education, which is a system that recognises two types of study programmes, namely university and professional and what is important to remind is the fact that the Republic of Croatia has been strategically defined for the development of binary education, so for equal development and professional and university studies. If we look at what is the difference between one and the other, then we will point out that professional studies provide students with an adequate level of knowledge and skills that enable them to carry out professional professions or directly engage in the world of work and in the work process, and on the other hand, university studies of students except for the fact that professional and university studies are trained for, therefore, the development and application of scientific and professional achievements, but as well as life in the business world, public sector, public sector, society in general, etc., and here we have the fact that professional and university studies are different, is it important, because they simply have a different mission, they are more focused on practical skills and faster preparation for the world of work, and in fact, the university students prepare students for the ability to work in science and in this context, therefore it is important to say that the words of professional studies are currently more focused on the practical people and the high levels of the school members of the university, which are very high levels of the university, and the university of the university, which are very high of the university, and the first of the university, and the university of the university of the university, and the university, which is very high of the university of the university, and the university of the university, which is very much of the university of the university of the university of the university, and the university of the university, and of the university, which is the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university, and of the university, and of the university of the university, and of the university of the university, and of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university, and of the university, and of the university, and of the university of the university. What is important to recall is that professional studies are also carried out by all public universities where around 20,000 students are studying, although according to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education should be an exception, the exception has become the rule that even at universities the study is being studied, and in this context the requirement for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law, which has led to the need to adopt these amendments and supplements, by the works of universities and colleges, is indeed here in doubt, primarily because of the fact that the implications of their own students and I find it really difficult to explain, in this sense this law is actually a compromise solution. Minister, I thank you for the design of this solution and from this place, once again, I give my support to all students who study at higher schools, higher schools, whether public, whether public, or private, because I know great examples of excellent work on high schools, higher schools, higher schools where professional studies, support and students and all employees, teachers, teachers at those higher schools and their leaderships are being studied, because what we all need to advocate is the consistent application of the binary system of higher education for which Croatia, I will point out once again, strategically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33276	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ackhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33277	Dear...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33278	And, I'm sorry, here's the first one to be a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33279	Thank you very much. Comrade Bedekovic, why do we have this law here in amendments and additions? Because it was a constitutional suit. During the debate, or when you see what was in the remarks, you see that the remarks are again such that the real concern that this constitutional suit may be again. I get the feeling that we often act like we live in Australia, so in Perth, it's a university and the ministry's in Brisbane, so they need it from one end to the other. Doesn't it seem to you that if there's still a realistic option for us to have the next constitutional lawsuit, these constitutional lawsuits, we're sending the wrong message to young people who are at the studio because they don't know how they're gonna end up? That, therefore, they, the rector, along with colleagues from law school should sit down, the ministry, at the same table and agree on an option that would be most acceptable and not to send messages all the time?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33280	Thank you, esteemed representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33281	Thank you very much, dear colleagues for this matter. To all the players you have just listed, it must be quite clear that Croatia has strategically defined itself for the binary system of higher education, which means for both development and other types of studies that differ according to their content, according to outcomes, but are equally valuable. And what is important to mention and emphasize, for students and for all actors involved in this story, the HKO Act is not the only law regulation of the type and level of studies acquired through higher education, so the types of levels of study programmes including professional qualifications acquired by them are also prescribed by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, Art. in particular, the 74th, but also the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, in particular Art. paragraph 11, so all the actors in this story must be clear that the legal basis... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33282	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33283	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we believe that this amendment of the law is commendable and that we will also show a broader consensus on the adoption of it at the vote itself. However, I am interested in your opinion, how will the labour market adapt to this qualification framework and how will the qualification framework adapt to the labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33284	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33285	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, therefore, it is very important to stress that we all point out all the time, that professional studies according to their content and outcomes prepare students to enter the world of work and the labour market and we know that the world of work is changing at a dizzy rate nowadays. For this reason, it is very important, among other things, that the amendments that have been introduced and which are related to both the sectoral councils and to enrol in the Register for Standards of Interest, the HKO Registry and all other processes that will significantly improve, improve and speed up the process of entering the standard of interest in the register, in any case point to one synergy of the labour market and professional studies and the need for mutual adaptation to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33286	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33287	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the thing I picked up the line just to a little bit of comment on the fact that sometimes in competitions that we can see, to read a formulation where a candidate needs to be satisfied that he's graduated from pre-graduate and graduate university studies or an integrated university study. We used to have our citizens who first completed pre-graduate vocational studies and then enrolled in graduate university studies, there they were conditioned to make some differences and they were eventually a university graduate study. Now, in a competition somewhere, they treat it like they have completed a graduate university study and they think they've met the conditions, but there are cases where they comment otherwise, so it turns out they haven't met the conditions required in the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33288	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33289	My colleague, thank you very much for this question. This issue opens another here, very layered and complex story related to the distinction of professional and university studies, especially at their pre-graduate level where we have the situation, this practice has shown, and it should be done to ensure that during time employers simply did not recognise qualifications, quality and did not recognise the value of the competences of those students who completed undergraduate vocational studies, and for this reason required completed university studies, and I think that, therefore, this confusion, first of all, arises from insufficient information from employers on the one hand and on the other, results from lack of knowledge of the contents of the mission and The outcome of expert studies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33290	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33291	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear MPs, here's the introduction of HKO we will solve the concerns and unknowns in the system, and I would ask you, since you come from high school, how do you comment that we have a greater demand offer, that is, that we have a lot more places at universities today than we have a candidate and how do we solve this burning problem right now in Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33292	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33293	Dear fellow, this question is very classy and very complex and I am sure that it will not be enough for me for a minute as long as I have to be able to provide you with a quality and comprehensive answer, but I will tell you that you also come from a system of education and education and it is clear to you that, unfortunately, given the unfavourable demographic trends, Croatia faces fewer potential students, both in primary and secondary schools, and then later on, it is also implicated at higher schools. It's one side of the story, on the other side of the story, we, despite having a document called the High Schools Network and study programs, still have no order in the study programs total in the Republic, they overlap, multiply, for that reason you have a bigger offer than you have number of potential... [[Thank you. Next... /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33294	...is a replica of the esteemed representative of Chick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33295	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. I refer to a part of your presentation relating to professional studies. I would like to emphasise that our government has recognised the importance of professional studies in the Republic of Croatia by not missing them from this law, we are showing that we know what is important for the successful increase in the quality and passivity of Croatian higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33296	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33297	Thank you, dear colleague, for your findings, I'd like to make a comment. I will remind, as I said, Croatia has been strategically defined for the development of a binary system of higher education, first of all. And secondly, Croatia has opted for a politic approach to the development of a higher education system which means, therefore, except for the development of a binary system of education, in terms of development and equal value of professional and university studies, politicity in terms of their positioning in different regions, parts of the Croatian state, so besides all the universities that we have in the Republic of Croatia in larger cities and larger environments, therefore we have a policy-based university and high school in smaller areas as intellectual cores and cores. the growth of students and young people in education. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33298	The next replica is the respected representatives of the coat of arms-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33299	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. The role of sectoral councils and their role in adapting competences is important in line with labour market needs. The labour market certainly knows best the needs that are rapidly changing in modern times, so this adjustment must actually be extremely rapid and effective. I believe that this amendment to the law will also contribute to improvement, so I believe that by consensus these amendments to the law will be made by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33300	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33301	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So here, as I said in the club's statement on behalf of the club, and now I repeat, one of the innovations and changes that this law makes is different, or putting more emphasis on the role of sectoral councils in improving the process that leads to the entry of standards, qualification of standard of interest in the HKO Registry, and in that sense certainly means adapting the labour market. Let's not forget that the labour market is changing today, first of all, turbulence is, secondly, changing at a bullet speed and the question of whether we are able to monitor the speed and change, the speed of these changes that are happening, and in this sense we must also adapt to the role of sectoral councils, and finally, the entire development council, the National Council for Human Resources Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33302	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with an associate. The SDP representative club will support this bill solely for the reason that we are in the situation in which we are, so this is a cease-fire and is caused by the fact that for the second time in several years, at the request of the Zagreb University and individual colleges, the Constitutional Court has tried to intervene in the law in such a way that students or qualifications obtained through the completion of professional studies are separated from students who have acquired their qualifications by completing university studies insisting on this visibility of separation at the very level, although each should be made clear that the same level does not necessarily mean the same type. And I don't know how many years we in Croatia will still try to explain that university studies differ from professional studies in their own kind but that doesn't diminish the fact that, as in many European countries, they are naturally the same level of the time spent in obtaining individual sets of outcomes in whole or partial qualifications according to HKO. And actually this endeavor is already on two occasions that we're dividing the level to call it so two sublevels, or we're putting some of the first seven, one, seven, two, and now it's 7.1 SV, ST, so it's just something that I am. Why? Because in 2012, it seems to me, or in 2013 when we collected consensus, political courage, will and desire to establish HKO as one safety and quality assurance instrument, transparency, portability of these outcomes, better integration of the labour market with the education system, we did so as European countries and these levels were very clearly divided and there was no difference in levels as there should be no difference between the different types of qualifications in which the same time was spent. Not only these 300, we have lower actually, lower qualifications. And it's just crazy that for three years we've been dealing with how we're going to satisfy the Constitutional Court in that designation, disseminating differences in species instead of dealing with how we're going to make the existing HKO simply better, more advanced, more successful, how we're going to bring sublegal acts that are prescribed to make it both enforceable and better. So it's just amazing to me, and I hope this agony stops. If I wasn't talking about how we had to step down from this passing in terms of who could enroll in postgraduate studies, we had to step down too, and now we're doing the same fences, not because we think it's good but simply to achieve what kind of balance we have and to compromise on something we don't need to compromise on. Because every modern country, the modern modern education system realizes that they are equally valuable and professional and university studies and that they are equally needed by society, economy and each other, regardless of how much they are somehow focused on the labour market and others on scientific improvement and research, but we are just constantly spinning in this vicious circle. Since I don't have much time anymore, I sincerely hope that we will go towards removing the shortcomings of the existing HKO, to see what we can do and in the better quality of the study programmes, which we can do to reform the system, this system of acquisition of calling, so that's another law, so that we can improve the existing PGI that also has its shortcomings to ensure that during the study, every student gets the highest quality education and to be competitive on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33304	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33305	Here's your thanks, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke of a professional and university study and now do you feel that the injustice of this constitutional court intervention has been resolved and that now both from professional and university studies students are even? That's one thing. And secondly, does it seem to you that given the centres in which there are universities, is it necessary to set up universities and universities since there are already 35 in Croatia and we can't actually satisfy the offer we have on the market with students? So comment on that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33306	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33307	A lot of questions for something I need to answer in a minute, but let's just say, I don't have a problem with the number of higher schools in the Republic, I have a problem with their quality. This quality problem also leads to this underestimation of the good work of the students of professional studies because they are considered less valuable and insufficient when compared with students of university studies but there is no problem with these students but rather the problem of the program, that I am not moving here now as we have transferred the bologna to the Croatian education system, formally, more formally and less content. I don't know if this intervention in a law that's actually quite stupid but we have to do it, to satisfy those who sued us with the Constitutional Court, I'm afraid it won't stop because they either don't understand or don't want to understand the real problem that they have to change themselves and if they don't want to do those professional studies, then don't do them, either. I mean, that's bullshit right now, but I really don't understand that dualism that Mrs. McNally was talking about. Bedekovic. On the one hand you enter, you take enrolments On the other hand, you're contesting it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33308	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33309	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you know this issue well and I am glad that you mentioned it and I will refer to it, HKO as a reform instrument and it is important to further highlight and emphasize what it brings as a reform document to students, which he generally means to education policies at Croatian level. First of all, it allows students to clearly define their acquired qualifications in Croatia as well as abroad. As far as employers are concerned, they can clearly define the profile of the new necessary employees on the basis of this instrument, and as regards continuing to implement education policy in terms of the binary system of education, HKO assures the continuation of reform, start-up reform processes in this area in Croatia, so I am interested in your opinion in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33310	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33311	I agree with you, so let's call that HKO's 3 dimensions. One is the reference framework that we are most talking about in recent years and we are most concerned with it, although it is not really the most significant one, but it is an instrument that allows mobility in the EU area. Better recognition, flexibility, recognition that we are as a member of the EU, that our student is better recognised, better employed, better translated qualifications, or should not be translated because we are regulated here. The second part is this quality assurance we're talking about. This is extremely important for what counterpart Hajduković has been saying all his life but also this pre-tertial vocational special education. And a third not less important, but the most neglected so far is the recognition of informal and informative learning that is extremely, extremely important. It's the knowledge that you acquire outside of formal education, which is actually enriching and it's this reform, reform process. And the fourth part of no less important is this passing to postgraduate studies especially for the medical profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33312	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed MP, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33313	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you are in your debate, and all the time we're talking about is this one hypocrisy. On the one hand, constitutional action will take place, and on the other hand, those who have filed a constitutional suit are willing to work and teach in some studies or not, but know exactly which and when they are, when they are concerned, everything can, but on the other hand, the constitutional suit. But what bothers me all the time is the message that we send to people who are in these professional studies today, their parents who finance it. So we have this amendment and the addition of the law just because it was a constitutional lawsuit and we're not any of us sure that the next one will come. Which message we send to young people to educate at all, to invest in themselves, an absolutely wrong message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33314	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33315	I agree, we send a message that we simply cannot guarantee any stability, legal certainty and some sort of regulated system where you will be entitled to what you are entitled to when you enter a certain study programme to know what you are getting, preferably that the state guarantees that you will get the best possible, best quality education and that after that, after completing your study, what opportunities you have regardless of whether you go to the labour market or want to get further education. Unfortunately, however, we cannot get out of this limbo because I say re-education should be a public interest, and education has become a service of profit and partial interest. And as long as it's so forward for us it won't go, and the state here unfortunately according to the Constitution and how certain categories of interpreters can just sit still and watch not say anything, God forbid but regularly pay the coins of all Croatian citizens for that and such a system. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33316	Thank you, thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33317	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Institute of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, as we have heard today several times from the ranks and positions, should therefore be in line with the needs of the labour market and, on the one hand, the harmonisation of registration quotas of course high schools with those quotas that are prescribed by both the HZZ itself and their recommendations for education registration policy. There are currently 2,000 doctors and 4500 nurses and technicians missing in Croatia, and our beautiful one left around 1,000 doctors and 2,500 nurses and medical technicians. As this agony lasts, so with the equalization of professional studies and university studies, such an agony is happening to you at the address of Zagrebačka 30 in Pula where the table and pulse university and the new general hospital with its equipment will be the most modern in Croatia. Agonia received its follow-up Monday when one of the highest bodies in the system of science and higher education is the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, which I will recall selecting from the Parliament's Education Committee which should be a non-political body just so that policies should not be played and which on Monday and 8 times refused to give consent to the University of Pula to conduct an integrated study of medicine. So again, there are currently 2,000 doctors and 4500 nurses and technicians missing in Croatia. This time, 8 times, led by its president, the National Council has requested a completely new draft of the medical study programme after all legislative assumptions for granting consent have been met. The information contained in Article 70(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 I will remind her of the law on scientific and vis-à-vis the national council only issuing consent and verifying whether any study has the conditions to be integrated or whether it has the number of ECTS and teaching hours to be such. Therefore, the study of medicine is subject to the directive itself, the deficiting interest and should be met with all these legal assumptions. This has already been checked by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which issued a positive opinion or compliance with the measure of criteria adopted by the Croatian Assembly in 2011, the assumptions were met internally at the university where the main board of quality and Senate of the university confirmed it. The assumptions of reviewers independent of the Agency for Science and Higher Education have been met. The assumptions of the Department of Science's working group have been fulfilled. However, the only thing that has not been fulfilled is the assumptions and consent of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development which I must say and that I am very saddened by it, because I repeat these people to the National Council elects the Assembly board now to give them the term of office so that half of the members we choose new ones, so as not to politicise. In fact, it does not matter whether members of the National Council of Education are sitting in that National Council instead of those top professors who have started playing politics and who have been hitching off for a year and a half. Here I even have to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33318	Fellow Radolović, like this That we understand each other right away, not getting into the measure of things, and what I think about what you're saying, you're completely out of the picture. [[Intruder: Say.]] Theme is Croatian Qualification Framework This is all you've been saying, this is all you've been saying. [[Employment: Yes, this topic is consistent with the needs of the labour market.]] Listen to me when I'm talking! [[Agreement: The needs of the labour market are 2000 doctors.]] This is all you said you could say I might have clapped this one if you'd said it in free speech. It had nothing to do with the subject here. Please stick to the subject. You spent 80% of your time on something that had nothing to do with the subject, and you could speak in free speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33319	So, then I'll stick to the subject, I don't know if you'll like this theme any more. So here we are talking about the quality of the study programmes, so I'm interested then if we don't already give consent to the study of medicine that we tried to give overnight here and appoint the establishment of the University of Defence and Security which would be the only one who would not therefore be subject to the supervision of the relevant Ministry of Science and Education but would be under the Ministry of Defence. And of course, I am angry with the fact that it is highly politicised in the system of science and higher education and we can Polish here as much as we want about the Croatian qualification framework on how we want to come from the beginning of the EU and have a primate for education and science, however, with this approach where bodies that should be independent in the system of science and higher education are politicizing their decisions, subject to political pressures and do not respect what Croatia needs today so much for Croatian society, and this is a more coherent need for the labour market with educational registration policies, we will really not get anywhere there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33320	You proceeded despite what I told you, so I give you a warning based on Article 239. Now let's go, that's abuse of the situation and let's all know that. [[Intruder: It's worth it, thank you.]] You could have said the same thing during free speech, all the same thing. and everyone would hear it, and everyone would hear it, and the message would be sent. [[Intruder: I already said it once, but it didn't obviously bear fruit.]] And you have now violated the Rules of Procedure knowingly and that is not correct. Unfortunately, this is increasingly happening to knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, knowingly breaking the institutions of this breach of the Rules of Procedure, etc., and obviously we will have to change the way we work a little because we will not get far like this. We're going to the replicas I'm asking for to be related to the subject. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33321	Dear colleagues, I have to change this subject a little bit, but since you're teaching at the university or university, and I'm teaching at the university, it's also a question for the minister if it's not a problem later when he'll have the final word to answer if you don't have the right answer. It's about our students enrolling in a three-year study, some enrolling in material problems, not being able to study in a bigger city, stay closer to home and finish that three-year study, and then try to enroll in undergraduate studies at the university. However, they must pass a number of cases through a different year. That year, they don't have the right to a scholarship, they don't have any student rights, they don't have health insurance, so they don't have any right to live normally. People, students who have a bad, bad material situation can hardly handle it. Please tell me, do you know what might be the solution to get rid of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33322	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33323	Thank you. So you know very well that these different colleges are in the jurisdiction of both the university and the university itself, and that actually falls within the category of autonomy of the university. However, the concept and category of university autonomy is a very flexible concept. I can agree with you that actually the Ministry could prescribe as HZZ prescribes recommendations for education registration policy, so that depending on the types of study programmes for individual scientific areas, some recommendations should be prescribed so that it does not match, for example, that the University of Pula is looking for 10 different colleges to be held, while at the same time the University of Zagreb is looking for 2 such colleges. I think such recommendations would really be helpful for students and for higher schools themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33324	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33325	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'd like to know how you interpret the transfer of the National Council's appointment to develop human potential from the parliament to the government. So is it that the assembly has misrepresented and appointed, so in the future, will the government do it better, or is it something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33326	There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33327	Thank you, Vice President. As I have mentioned, therefore, the selection of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is under way, and you mentioned one other body of the National Council for Human Resources Development, it is interesting that the Assembly Committee will continue to elect members of the National Council for Science, and now you said the Government will elect members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. It is evident in my personal opinion that it is politicizing as I have said, and that is precisely why it is going to be that parliamentary deputies are not appointed to those bodies in order not to be politicized and now called the Government say so. So all this together really doesn't make sense, and instead of moving away from that point of view of politicizing in the education system, we're obviously just going backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33328	The following is the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33329	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues from 2010 to the Republic of Croatia are enrolled in a graduate university study of sororitys, first began in Osijek, and then taken over by other medical universities in the Republic of Croatia. I wonder what the situation in Pula is about. And the second part is purely your comment about what, that answer to my reply by the minister that the fact that not everyone can enroll in a doctoral study, I'm talking about a sorority, so the master's sister, and the first-graders can't, also your comment, is that really some kind of plan of the Faculty of Medicine in Pula, or are we also going to wait for it to be regulated legally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33330	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33331	If I had to say that this is a big problem, and the problem is the same, and the University of Pula has the same problem, we currently have a pre-graduate professional study, and now through the HKO project, we set up a graduate university study and I must say that neither alone with all the interventions that we have asked of the ministry and of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources but also from the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, what we have received is the answer, so what Pavić has asked before, so that simply students should simply take different colleges, which is in some capacity again of the university itself, or the autonomy of the university, and there is no regulated legal framework at all, which, at the time of transition and enrolment, therefore, to these graduate university studies. This was a drawback because one such HKO project was called out of the EU funds. Also, high schools themselves didn't know how to do it, they still don't know because the projects are being implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33332	The next replica is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33333	Dear colleagues, I express my full support for the content of your presentation, I believe that you have very much stuck to the subject because the implementation of the qualification framework is inextricably related to the issue of university management, the selection of rectors, the work of senates, the work of university councils, and also to various national councils. And this replica, in fact, I'm telling the President to you, this is the second time I've warned you that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure and abuse your position. I think it is a very dangerous practice to restrict the rights of the representatives to speak freely in their presentations on the subject under discussion. This is the Assembly, this is where all items and arguments must be made, and it is up to you not to use the Rules of Procedure in a way that does not belong to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33334	So, before I give the word to the respected MP Radolovic, here you can see that you could say it through the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that would be okay then, according to the Rules of Procedure, and now you have not acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that is one thing. And the other thing about how I run the session is according to the Rules of Procedure. What you think I'm sorry, your private business at all, I don't care at all. There you are, distinguished MPs Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33335	At the cost of warning how to interpret and apply the Rules of Procedure in this Croatian Assembly is neither my business nor yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33336	On the basis of Article 39, I give you a warning! For the purposes of Article 240(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following definitions shall apply: I give you a reminder by taking away your word! There you are, distinguished MPs Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33337	I thank you for your support of esteemed colleagues, and I must say that I have already spoken about this topic in free speech, at press conferences, and obviously what will remain of the university is to sue the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for the shame of the entire system of science and higher education, and I will continue to be loud until the consent of the National Council is granted and until the permission of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education has been granted, given that we have met all the legal assumptions for conducting the study. I won't stop until the first medical student in Pula is enrolled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33338	And we still have one replica, the esteemed representative of the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33339	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have received a warning because you have gone off topic, but I think in fact that this indirect and you have not gone off topic because what you are saying is a complete indicator of the fact that neither the HKO-oi nor the PGI-oi, nor a number of other laws that need to regulate the system of higher education, unfortunately, cannot guarantee a fair system in which the education system will satisfy among other things and social needs. Because if we have a health care worker deficit, and we have it, there's no reason why you in Pula are defending the opening of such a study. On the other hand, we were also under the pressure of the Constitutional Court to make it impossible for students who had completed professional studies to become doctors. So he can enter his doctorate in Germany with completed professional studies in Croatia, and that's especially visible right now. These health professions, which include regulated professions, labs, technicians, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33340	Dear Representative Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33341	I thank you for agreeing with you completely fellow Glasovac and therefore again as much as I come from the university and I think that the autonomy of the university is a constitutional category again, so we need to prescribe things by law, we need to regulate sublegal acts, and this for me personally is not something that can be put in place and undermined under university autonomy, there should be a clear legal and sublegal framework and it should be possible for people who, instead of enrolling doctorates outside in the Western EU countries where they can be allowed to do so here in Croatia. And as for what you said about the study of medicine, so imagine how you would feel that at the same session of the National Council of Science you have on the table 2 elaborates of medical studies, one of the Croatian Catholic University, one study of Medicine in Pula, that you have their agreement with the KBC wine and ours with Split and that this one votes, and this one does not vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33342	The next debate will bring to you a respected representative of Kresimir Ackhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33343	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues, the topic of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is present in the Croatian public especially in the educational and scientific public space for more than 15 years when the processes of the regulation of the national qualification system are launched. The Croatian Qualifications Framework was regulated by the first law in 2013, and again and thoroughly dealing with this topic was encouraged by the Constitutional Court's decision repealing the provisions of the Croatian Qualifications Framework Act, which equidistant the university and professional studies. The Constitutional Court's decision opened the subject of amending the law, but also of topics relating to the differentiation of professional and university studies. I believe, and my colleagues here before me have mentioned that we will agree that professional and university studies are not equal. However, they are equally important and equally valuable. We all know that professional studies are focused on practice and specific skills, that they prepare students for direct entry into the labour market. We also know that university studies are aimed at research and scientific approach, that they provide education for independent scientific research work with wider knowledge for individual professions. Therefore, the fundamental difference between professional and university studies is in the content of studies which directly affects the difference in learning outcomes, competences and skills that students acquire during education. Universitys play a different role in society than universities and higher schools, but both kinds of educational institutions are necessary as we need important students of one and other studies. The key amendment of this law refers to the positioning of professional studies in the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and in line with the European Qualifications Framework. The levels of qualifications and professional and university studies will remain numerically at the same level, 6 for undergraduates, 7 for graduate studies, and the other are the only so-called. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In other words, it is the same level where students remain at the end of their studies because their studies are equally ongoing and have equal ECTS points. In this way, these amendments to the law reached a consensus of all parties in relation to the status of professional studies. In accordance with the European Qualifications Framework which we belong to, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and what is particularly important in accordance with the rights of students from whom many have been in suspense and fear of their future status until the adoption of this law. I believe that the students of professional studies after the uncertainty are satisfied with this solution and that they are relieved and relieved of the great burden. It is about 55,000 students, many of whom have publicly supported this solution through social actions, and support is obvious in more than 600 comments received during the consultation with the public on the proposal of this law. And finally, if we listen to students, we rarely hear clear messages about how important the quality of education is to them regardless of the type of study. How important it is for them to pass through higher education as well as to position the labour market on which they will be able to respond to their future employers. This law allows a stable and harmonised National Qualification Framework and we can consider it a good basis for maintaining and developing a quality education system. Experts from the academic community as well as students of professional and university studies participated in his work. The participatory character of the whole process certainly contributed to the creation of a quality solution for both institutions and young people in the education system. It is our job to support them from legislative to operational level. It's up to theirs, but so is our future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33344	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33345	Thank you, Vice President. You've described the difference between university and professional studies nicely. That's what theory should be like. However, there is another problem, which is the lack of recognition of these qualifications and the difference from the labour market. If I didn't tell you now that some calls are not recognized at all on the labour market, and it should be, to the point that employers are confused about being a university, which is a professional study, that they give primate to university studies more often when they hire. For what reason, I don't know because by this definition that you have said, actually, a professional study should take precedence in the sense that they are more focused on training people for the labour market, not for the academic career. While academic careers and vertical advancements should be reversed. I'll set an example for you and state institutions when they discuss competitions and call for a competition for economists and lawyers, and often let's just say forget about a politician who's also educated for this kind of business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33346	The answer of the esteemed representative, Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33347	Here's my thanks to colleague Hajdukovic. Indeed, the passing of higher education would be the part of my debate that we have now highlighted and talked about which you have said and, as you have mentioned in the debate before, that you are not yourself sure what part of education you are, nor are you a magistrate nor a lawyer, and I believe that in some frameworks of this law we can only speak commendably, however, that there are also room for upgrades and that this topic is specifically related to further upgrades and further changes to the laws that should wait for us in the parliamentary benches in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33348	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33349	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, you spoke about professional and university studies and now, by equating and adopting the Croatian Qualifications Framework, this problem will be solved. However, we have students who have completed these studies so far, and how should this be resolved should those who have completed their studies be in an even position with those who have just studied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33350	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33351	Here I thank my colleague Simičević, so more than 600 comments arrived during the consultation with public relations. From him according to information, more than 70% were positive and went exactly in the direction that students of professional studies after months of uncertainty were actually to be honest, to be honest, to get rid of the burden of their future and their status in society. In this context, I certainly welcome and thank the ministry even though we are hoping to vote by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33352	The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33353	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I will refer to that part of your debate in which, in which you have spoken about specificities, i.e. the diversity and equivalence of professional and university studies, where you have pointed out that the difference in content and outcomes is indeed equal to that in terms of the amount of ECTS, and I am glad that you have stressed and agree with you that both universities and universities and higher schools are equally important to us and professional and university studies, but what is most important to us in all of this is quality. The quality of the study that we offer to our future students and the quality that will guarantee knowledge and competence in their future jobs and that is what only needs to be focused when we discuss professional and university studies or binary systems in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33354	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33355	I thank my colleague Bedeković, I agree, and this is exactly what apostrophe of your quality is about, because quality is never a coincidence. Quality is always a product and process of work, expertise and a momentous approach to everything we do, especially when we talk about education. I am also glad that you noticed this difference that we have mentioned and already known between university and professional studies, however, the same value of studies and the labour market that must be and when I have replicated and asked you a question and asked for an opinion is precisely the point of adapting to labour market competences, labour market qualifications and the labour market qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33356	The next replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33357	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, well, I have to refer to this particular dissent of university and professional normal that you mentioned, and it's clear in the Law on Scientific Activity itself, I think it's Article 3, it's just about the assignments of universities and universities, high schools, and here we have a clear normal difference and competence that students will get at individual levels of study, but here I'm going to rely on my colleague before now only these changes solve it. I think students can definitely be satisfied. Now you need to work normally on quality. At the very quality, but also at the speed of adjustment and the labour market itself. We know how fast these changes are, how important the emphasis is on new, new types of studies and all the competences students will get. So it may not matter whether 6ST or 6SV is the quality and level of studies that a certain student will receive at a university or university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33358	Thank you. Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33359	I thank my colleague Bačić, a colleague of Mrak Taritas, mentioned in a replica today that exactly what you have been telling me now is the context of the labour market and the context of the quality and speed of the pace that is happening in the world today, which we are waking up to, let's be realistic, let's be honest and very hard to follow. To bring it into line with the legal frameworks and this law, which means the first time in 2013, which began 15 years ago, is definitely required by this time and this quality that we started to do, but also requires patience because nothing can happen overnight and to come to this individual goal and to the ultimate purpose of all these problems and colleagues before me have opened what is local, which regionally, which nationally, this problem whether in the context of the topic or not even a little outside of the topic, but certainly commendable and certainly commendable is something that is just ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33360	The next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33361	Dear Vice President, dear colleague, do you think that by expanding the network of the university that deficits can be solved here, as the colleague said medical or nurses and doctors, since we know how far these distances between individual centres are and is this the right way, can we actually produce so many new colleges and universities to fix the whole situation or is it a problem in something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33362	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33363	So absolutely to us as a legislative authority is put on the line and we make decisions on everything that matters. However, various segments of society and various institutions are also responsible for what is the measure of this matter. When you talk about the lack of medical personnel, when we talk about the labour market, it is actually one very simple math, logic and analysis that can determine what is what we have too much and what requires a detailed analysis of why doctors leave our country for what reasons. Whether these are existential reasons, whether they're professional reasons, whether they're adventurous reasons, whether it's actually a need for further improvement, which is if we're honest with a young man and normal, but I'm saying that we definitely can't tie it to this law but we deserve more than this one minute of response to the replica one more thorough, minor and better analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33364	And the last replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33365	Do you see the difference in the adjustment of the labour market between university and professional studies, and to what extent should quotas be adapted to the labour market, and to what extent is our need for a particular professional study, the interest of students can establish those quotas or set the labour market themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33366	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33367	I thank my colleague Selak Rasudiæ, so when we talk about interest, it's hard, I worked in private high school, I was a co-ordinator for the state's graduation and it's hard for one child to adapt to the labour market, his dreams, his wishes, his needs and ultimately his affirmation is sometimes directed towards something else. And if he has a passion for someone's knowledge and interest, he'll write it down and think as crowded as it is in this area that he'll find his own quality, enthusiasm, and all that he owns himself in it. So it's very hard to actually say that we, we can do and we have to make a definitive harmonisation when you mention it, I think that on this trail and answer this question of the needs of the labour market and what we offer as a professional study and as a university, but until the end, it's clear to everyone who's been in the system, and you've worked at the university, you know that it's impossible to complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33368	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Rada Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33369	I would like to thank Vice President HS, dear ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to begin by thanking all the teachers and teachers who work in a system of education and education from primary school, high school, the university that selflessly gives in these difficult times and do extremely difficult and responsible tasks in the crown crisis. I believe that this authority will recognize and that actually what, where they are lagging behind, is actually paying to make it right. Here is the government headed by Andrej Plenkovic, in fact, the only one who has promised and fulfilled the promise until the previous governments are not. So, once again, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues for their patience and I believe they will do a quality and good job while this pandemic passes. I may also be concerned that here when we talk about the system of education and education that we are very little in the assembly or we all know everything about this subject or we don't really care about the system of education and education, and in fact by example we should have shown that we care very much and we know that, in fact, that knowledge is power, the one who has knowledge can, can progress. Introducing the Croatian Qualifications Framework, we have actually removed the injustice that was between professional and university studies, and I believe now that all those students who are now studying and who have completed their studies and who will sign up to actually be at the same level and that as such they will be an interesting market, the labour market. I also wanted to say here about high school education where the number of professions would be reduced because we are the country that may be among the most interested in Europe, which is certainly not good. So by making a curricula for vocational education, we will get competition in the labour market, not only in Croatia, but also in Europe, and we will also get material assumptions that we can be well educated in Croatia. We know in fact that quality is what we should differ by. We are a small country that has no great wealth and surely by working in education we can adopt quality more or be competitive and have added, added value. Some countries that are rich can certainly achieve and improve the standard of citizens through other resources, and we can only say in Croatia through education. And therefore, all investment in education will certainly be paid in the long term, and otherwise we Croats are also known that all people who go outside can actually achieve excellent results and, and they are proud of the system of education and education they have been through. Because the point of education is actually to be, to be better, to be better than others, and that's the only way we can, we can get to the goal. I believe that the reform of vocational education already in place from the EU will be 210 million kuna that will soon end and that in the school year 2022/'23. In fact, it could already come into the system and we'll definitely get through that quality more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33370	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33371	Dear fellow, perhaps it would be good to look back a little bit on the quality of studies, or on the question of what determines the quality that determines the number of points since we are talking here about a certain range of points from 15 to 25 relative to the quality obtained in the range offered by ECTS points at the university study?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33372	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33373	Thank you, dear colleagues. There is an internal quality of studies where the quality and implementation of the curriculum and, and, the curriculum and programmes can be established, and there is also an international evaluation where we determine where we are and what quality we provide to students.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33374	The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you thanked the professors, the teachers, and I join that thank you, but unfortunately they are, unfortunately, they are the ones carrying the system. The ministry at these difficult times was most often not their mother but their stepmom, but let's let it go now and then, let's talk about HKO. What you were saying about reducing your interest in reducing the pressure on the formal education system, that's exactly the point of HKO. Here's a plastic example, a person ended up, say, for a master locksmith, but his whole life doesn't work in the profession, but works as an electrician, a trained electrician who does it with masters. HKO allows him or her to have that knowledge and skills that he has acquired or gained through work as if he had been formally educated, so we should talk more about it today, and less about what you have tried...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33376	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33377	Thank you. Dear fellow, that there are actually people who do work for which they have not been educated and certainly those who have shown their quality and skills in the labour market that they should get through this HKO not to say that diploma that will allow them to continue doing that job. And as for professors and professors, surely they deserve every respect we have since they are among health workers, merchants and service activities they care about education and education not to say the mental health of the nation at this difficult moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33378	The Republic also has a respected representative, Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33379	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shimičević. You mentioned at the beginning of your debate and only the Ministry, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of the moves related to the adoption of these amendments to the HKO, we talked a lot about this different part and the university and professional and need of equalisation in certain study programmes, but we talked a little bit about what is one topic special, and we definitely need to stress it and about the sectoral council itself changes within their members, but we must note that this law also states that the National Council for Human Resources Development is appointed this time by the Government, precisely on the proposal of the Minister himself, to speed up and achieve the objectives of the active employment policy itself, but also to coordinate what we often mention to the education system with the competences that.../The speakers are going to speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33380	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33381	Thank you. Your Honor, if you had noticed correctly, I believe now that what this government or this House is about to do for a long time, that we will not change the laws from politics to politics and that it would be best to always make decisions in the education system by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33382	Thank you very much. We are now going to the final on behalf of the clubs, so the first one will speak for Honorable Representative Ante Kujundzic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33383	Thank you, Mr. Rainer's chairman. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We welcome, in fact, the Mosta Club welcomes the bill by which professional studies are defined within the classification framework and of course we will support it as such. However, the classification framework and the current proposal are indicators of a recent monopoly in education and the very acquisition of qualifications for which there is no security of one form of teaching quality, and then also knowledge. Study participants should be attracted to the quality of teaching and lecturers, not to the legal legislation of political para-systemic connections. The classification framework corrects the injustice that has been done to students of professional studies, but the bill itself rules out HS in practice already seen. In the appointment of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials and the power of designation itself, it transfers to the Government, which is again an indication of the continuation of the kind of political privatisation of what has led to the level of where it is. It may be different this time, but it was too quiet perhaps but let's wait. What people in Croatia need to understand is that political ties in the appointment of rectors and councils themselves must not and may not be tools to settle certain grades and diplomas. The consequences of such practices are seen very often, we see that such practices cannot lead us to Croatian quality and Croatian knowledge. The independence of the academic and educational community in politics is the only right path. The ability to, likeness no, knowledge that, shopping no, effort and sweat yes, the proud grip of the diploma yes, everything else no. It makes ministers you have a second chance you'll be proud and you'll do what's the essence of every existence, and that's leaving a mark. Without this more than clear, the question remains both of this classification framework and of all other regulations at all levels of education. I repeat, the Bridge will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33384	... Thank you very much. [[Specially enabled.]] We're going to take a break for 15 minutes and meet again at 13.55. There he is. I'm asking you to clear the hall. It's 13,40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 13:59 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33385	Your Honor. There is almost no doubt that the proposed law is good and that this qualification framework should be supported. But given the fact that our highly educated people are leaving Croatia because they are aware that professionally acquired qualifications do not guarantee that they will be able to achieve their professional ambitions and potentials in the Republic of Croatia, this topic is also not only an opportunity and a right but also an obligation to talk about the causes of this. Croatia has a big problem with its universities, the University of Zagreb is unfortunately known for its bad, so today's debate cannot be separated from the talks and comments that concern the Rectors of Mr. Boras, so all those representatives who said something in their presentations about both Boras and his rectorial mandate and about the Senate that supported him all these years, about university councils and councils, and also about the national council, were very much related to the subject of which parliamentary representatives were obliged to speak and to speak honestly and openly, so that the same Boras filed two constitutional lawsuits to degrade professional studies in some way, and according to his public statements, it is not excluded that he will also file a third constitutional suit. The university is not only places where our young people acquire certain professional references and knowledge, the university must and our youngsters build ethical, moral and human norms, and it will be difficult to install them if those such a university leads and themselves very often stand on the wrong or wrong or on the dark side of history. The cowardice has no justification, and it is precisely the cowardice that can describe the conduct of all those members of the University Senate and the advice that has been supported all these years by the rector Boras, who have been involved all these many years in making a whole series of compromised and controversial decisions, such as those on the award of honorary doctorate Dragan Covic, such as the intention to assign an honorary doctorate to Mayor Milan Bandic, like all those situations where they simply said they didn't know, they don't see, they don't hear everything that the Croatian public has informed researchers and various media. Only the portal of Mid-Wednjahr. He has done more in the last few weeks and months to defend the dignity of Croatian universities than all the people sitting in the Senate who have absolutely done nothing until now. So if we really want to preserve the dignity, or restore the dignity of Croatian universities, we need to ask ourselves by name and last name, who has not yet deserved to remain in the function he has been sitting on so far? The Boras shift obviously also has a certain political connotation because it would not have been whispered in public as his chair shakes that at some point someone had not received a moment's thought by the current government, about it in his final presentation and I think the minister is obliged and I.../The speakers speak you at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33386	Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, you have gone completely off the topic again, in accordance with what you have said before and I am asking you to talk about HKO.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33387	The HKO proposed by this law is excellent and good and I hereby congratulate the minister on what he has done with a good bill which this HS will undoubtedly adopt. But the implementation of this qualification framework will be missed if all of us as a society, as a community, as politicians continue to send a message to our educated people that their professional and professional reference, their diligently acquired calling, their qualifications will not remain respected and appreciated. We have often had opportunities to see such situations, and this is the topic, the first and the main topic on which HS must take account, the greater, the more difficult and the more significant the debate on the mere norms of the qualification framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33388	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33389	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of HS, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. After today's debate, we will all agree that this draft law amending and supplementing the HKO Act fits into a professional study in HKO, which is the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision has been implemented, or a constitutionally acceptable legal solution has been found, which fully complies with the Constitutional Court's decision, and so has the consensus of all interested stakeholders to avoid any further possible lawsuits, and also the recommendations on the status of professional studies in the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which will remind me of about 20% of the total number of higher education students in the Republic of Croatia, or slightly less than 6% of all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia to some less than 40 higher universities that perform professional studies in Croatia plus some of the professional studies conducted at universities. I must also stress this again and stress that the proposed law does not affect the status issues of the address or their acquired qualifications, but that acquired qualifications are positioned on the levels of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the European Qualifications Framework and are certainly a transmission to the European labour market. Similarly, this legislative proposal adds to the experience gained so far in the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which is aimed at improving efficiency and simplifying, or speeding up, the procedures for enrolment of standards of interest and standards of qualifications in the register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and, of course, at granting competences to existing agencies in the system of education, evaluation, adoption of standards of interest and standards of qualifications, each of the roles of sectoral councils and the role of agencies in the education and education system. All of this will contribute to further empowerment of the binary system of higher education for which Croatia has been strategically defined. And of course I need to thank the Ministers personally and your services in this way, in this way, thank you for recognising the importance and value of professional studies and of all those students who study in them, as well as all those people, teachers, teachers who work in high schools who perform professional studies. All this is certainly important for the future, and I stress again that I have already pointed out several times the importance and future of professional studies is primarily in their quality as well as in the quality of university studies. And here is the final mention, so it happened that at today's meeting of the Government, one of the points of the agenda was the extension of the regulation on the establishment of a high school in Virovitica, which, today's decision at the government's session, grew up after 10 years of working, after growing into a relevant high school and after meeting all the conditions, grew into a university and here, from today on, we have another university in Croatia, which is the University of Virovitica. And I am therefore using this opportunity to congratulate all the employees and students of the University of Virovitica and the University of Virovitica in Virovitica, where I think there is a good future and that there is an even more high-quality study programme. As far as this legislative proposal is concerned, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33390	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Radolovic will speak, is not there, is losing his right speech, and will then address the proposed minister, Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33391	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, I would first like to thank you for the highly constructive and contentious and for me, and I believe that my co-workers in the ministry have a very constructive discussion with a lot of elements that we agree on in the first place, and that absolutely necessary is the premise of any further action to raise the quality of education in Croatia with particular emphasis on the quality of higher education. I must also remind myself that this law is just one smaller segment of what we heard during these discussions. He edits on one side of the level of education, he will solve our deep conviction of the opposition that lasted longer or not the difference between professional and university studies. I think we have proposed one, one good solution, but the added value of this law itself is precisely in that second segment that may not have been of so much interest to the public, which is just to sort out the situation in the section relating to sectoral councils and defining and enrolling interests in the register. What is stated certainly applies to education in Croatia. The quality of education, which will be further addressed by other laws, is also highlighted, in the first row, by the Law on Scientific Research, and by the Law on the Quality of Higher Education. Registration quotas have been mentioned, of which I must point out that only in the section of expert studies can the Government affect certain registration quotas, while when we talk about university studies, the ministry has no interference and universities are more or less enrolling students themselves. The specialistic and postgraduate studies are once again only the universities are again in their autonomous authority, while for professional studies postgraduate vocational studies are well conditioned by the needs of labour markets and universities and higher schools in such a way as to in principle and perform them. There are, one additional special segment are regulated professions, hence medical type, medicine, veterinary, dentistry, pharmacies and the like, which are the only segment of what, where the EU has defined very firmly in the field of education, and therefore certain entries and possibilities of continuing schooling in that part are equally and regulated and that is also why someone who has completed a peer study of the sorority unlike one or one who has completed a sorority study at the university can or cannot enroll a doctoral study. We said quality is something that we all must absolutely strive for together. Croatia has as many inhabitants as there are and we need to be aware that in the first place those who perform studies and education are those who breathe equally between themselves and their quality and it is not easy to produce and get a sufficient number of top experts who will educate our future and young generations and that we must be aware and I think that in this sense and in this direction we should go to future laws that define what, as well as who, under what conditions can teach. This will be regulated, as I said, by some other laws, not by this Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. I also think that one serious debate should be held about the Bologna process and whether the Bologna process is as it has been carried out in the last 15 or 20 years. In Croatia, many countries have done the same. The list of academic titles and titles looks now in Croatia like a yellow book or those yellow pages which I think more and we don't know how many diplomas we have, under which names, I think things should be reorganized, and yet it's the subject of another law, not the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. We have a challenge whether such a proposal of the Croatian Qualifications Framework will once again trigger the possibility of constitutional lawsuits, I deeply hope that after 2 or 3 attempts by those who have done so all the time they have realized that it is immaterial and that there is no reason, nor this purpose. And I would also like to stress that this Croatian qualification framework is only one step in a whole series of legislative changes that HS needs to adopt and vote to make education in the Republic better, and indeed came to that level that we all together seek together. I hope you will support the bill and I thank you on behalf of the government and the ministry. Thank you very much. Yeah, I'm sorry, I almost forgot, there are two amendments to the Committee on Legislatives that are more normotechnical in nature and, however, we accept those two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33392	Thank you very much. We have, stay Ministers here, have more replicas on your exhibit, is the first respected representative of Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33393	Thank you. As I said in presenting this law is one of the few good laws in the Republic of Croatia and we will certainly support it. However, here's your commentary on this one that wants to show it as an end to university autonomy, and how do you comment on that? And in this light of university autonomy what can the ministry do to prevent the illegal extension of the working relationship of the proctor Ante Celic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33394	Thank you. It is not exactly in line with the Croatian qualification framework, but here is the minister who may or may not have to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33395	What the ministry will do about illegal employment, you asked inside. The ministry may request that certain actions be carried out and that legal regulations are based on this. In some cases, we know that the work of teachers is possible even after the age of 65. If that's what there's a need for. In particular, I think that in one 2 or 3 cases we have a situation where there is a dispute over consummated and non-consummated rights and the ministry has asked for a certain or requested that, among other things, the advice of the university address this issue because some of the provisions in this regard are also commented in terms of constitutional provisions. the opinion given by the Constitutional Court. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33396	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33397	Dear Ministers, we have already made several proposals to address the problem of students transferring from university studies to university studies. I have another proposal if it can be implemented through some kind of legislation, through some regulation or through some kind of proposal to the universities and colleges to actually prepare students in a way that through 3.g. through election programmes listen to additional colleges and actually prepare themselves for enrolment in university studies. These programs can be held either by university professors or, of course, by teachers who are at the university with a student who should know in advance which university study he later intends to write that difference can be passed without any problems. He'd make it through the 3rd. had more ECTS points than that because it was later enrolled in the study, but it would not lose that year for the transition, or that year for which it would otherwise lose both material and time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33398	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33399	Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, it's that different year when we have transitions and there's a problem with student rights, we can possibly consider that. However, one general guideline on how many different exams someone needs to pass in order to continue at university study, I don't think it's possible to define this in this variant because this really affects the autonomy of universities in this segment, and we, even at universities in Croatia, have the difference between some universities that accept students from higher education studies in the follow-up study, on an almost relatively small scale, which they require for enrolment or difference of subjects and some that are extremely restrictive and almost do not allow transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33400	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33401	Dear Minister. The debate itself and this final presentation of yours has shown how welcome this law is to all those who care about it and how much consensus it is that all fellow MPs have shown one unity that goes in favor of you and that is why I thank you on behalf of all the students whom you have thus facilitated life and existence and the future and everything that has plagued them with this question. However, that question that you would like in the end, you yourself have said additional other laws that are closely related to this law that you have announced, so if you could just say in the finale now that are in some nearer period in the plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33402	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, there is a whole set of legal regulations that are also provided for by a certain plan of adoption. In the first half of this year, the Law on adult education, the Law on Science and Education, the Law on Quality and a few more do not know what dynamics are now, and the Law on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development is scheduled for adoption in the fourth quarter of this year. So part of the law we're talking about in this segment of primary and secondary education is in the final phase, I would say so, of course there's also the Inspection Act, which we're probably going to talk a little bit about in the second part. But the whole palette has been set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33404	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. HKO is among other instruments and for better mobility, I will mention here the Center for International Co-operation of the University of Zagreb Medical Faculty, my personal opinion that both C plus, and Erasmus and bilateral co-operation that does not only involve exchanging students with this HKO goes the stairs more. What I would like to point out is that the centre has a list of all doctors working in the United States in the health system, I am interested in whether at the level of the Ministry of Science is working on the registers of people of Croatian scientists depending on certain areas that work and whether you are doing some initiative to improve that area too, because I think we need it very much and I really see that this qualification framework is a step forward towards better mobility and from Croatia to the outside, but also from abroad to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33406	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33407	Thank you very much, Your Honor. HKO is something that has brought Croatia’s interests into line or at the level of interest with those in the EU countries, but it is certainly useful for overseas countries, because it can be much easier to illustrate to someone who is interested in hiring someone outside the borders of Croatia, which is the person concerned in his education of glass in Croatia, equalises him with certain levels and knowledge, outcomes, learning or education in another country, and that was finally the purpose of the European Qualifications Framework. When we talk about Croatian scientists, experts who have around the world and who are explicitly to admit what is further saying only that we have a very high-quality education that can certainly be much, much better, I will remind you that there is a portal of Croatian scientists abroad located in the national library and that it is continuously complemented and it is certainly one of the tools.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33408	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33409	Dear Minister. Here is indeed not a questionable law that you present today and that we have all supported in some way, but it is very important, with respect for university autonomy, to exercise proper and adequate control. In the case of Marijane Puljak, we have heard something you think you are doing about the Rector, but it is not the only potentially controversial employment at the University of Zagreb. We had recently had opportunities from the media to find out that at the job of a counselor a person whose father was a consultant for the culture of the current rector, we found out about it because there was no previous structure for such a place, which means it was a pure form of nepotism. The academic community that has such examples in its own ranks cannot be an academic community that attracts top-of-the-line world scientists and professors, which means that stagnation and backwardness will continue to move as negatively as it has from the movement so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33410	Thank you. Nor is it of course about HKO, and the minister will or will not answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33411	Thanks for the suggestion. However, there is really no direct interference and connection with this law that we are talking about right now, but it is certainly one of the issues that needs to be addressed and will be resolved safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33412	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Thank you Minister, you can take your place. We continue in the same tone and in the same area with the following law, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection, first reading, P.Z. No. 108 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister Radovan Fuchs, Minister of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, before you there is a proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on educational inspection which regulates the conduct of inspection with the representations of citizens and legal persons relating to a part-time educational inspection and more precisely determines the handling of submissions from inspection procedures in accordance with the rules on data protection. These amendments were in some way urgent interventions in the law itself in accordance with the principle agreements with interested participants, and were adopted to protect all citizens from arbitrary or unfounded applications. In fact, educators who perform public service are aware that their work is subject to formal legal and professional pedagogical supervision, but for the directors and teachers, official actions that have been initiated by so-called “the teachers”. anonymouss. Statistically, in the last 5 years, 12,000 applications have been reported according to an educational inspection of which a quarter or 25% were anonymous. The Educational Inspection shall exercise control over the formal structure and mode of work, as well as the legal exercise of learners' and workers' rights, forgive me, and, therefore, the Law on Educational Inspection shall make it clear that the application, submission, complaint or objection, in one word, to the Educational Inspection, except that it must indicate a specific irregularity in the work of the school and should necessarily contain full information about the applicant because, unless there is no inspection, it is not mandatory and will not act in any way. The current provisions of the Law on Educational Inspection do not specify what the concepts are and what it must contain in order for the head of the Authority to take the same into consideration or not prescribed what all must contain a notion of which the latter would be obliged to act, so far formal legal inspectors have been obliged to act on the most unfounded anonymous applications. Therefore, the statements in question clearly specify the application, and the presentation must contain information on the applicant and its name, home address and contact details, or the legal person’s name, seat and list of the responsible person, because without it, the inspector will not act on it. This would highlight the obligation of the applicant to exercise its right under the law that it should be identified by means of an educational inspection with its own data. The amendments in question also make it more clear that the inspection and other official secrecy obligations are to be kept and how the documentation and information relating to the inspection procedure is to be dealt with in this respect and that the handling of the data on the applicant of the performance is specified. This would result in a legal justification for the handling of inspection data and would establish the rights and interests of the applicant. Namely, the person who submitted the play has the right to receive a basic insight into what the inspection is and carried out the procedure and to be familiar with the opinion of the inspection. Finally, I would like to point out that given the current situation in the field of education and the accompanying regulations, there is definitely a need for systematic changes and the adoption of additions and complete new legislation and will therefore be passed very soon after the other laws have been passed and the new Law on Educational Inspection, which will comply with the applicable laws and regulations. However, for this overall change, it is necessary, as I said earlier, to amend the implementing rules in this area of education and education, to approach the adoption of a new Law on Educational Inspection which will be more effective and clearer and help all stakeholders in the activities of education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33416	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Kunjundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33417	Thank you, Mr. Rainer. Dear Ministers, the application for supervision if we are talking about natural persons anywhere in the bill does not define a government signature as a form of evidence for applicants. Otherwise, in any tender procedure, the government signature on the application itself is proof that it is a person who is actually applying to the competition itself. Do you think that if this item is not incorporated into the existing law that there is a real danger of various different applications that will be falsified by the name and how to determine the authenticity of the person himself reporting unless there is a government signature that is valid and binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33418	The answer of the Honorable Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33419	Thank you, Mr. Representative. That is why we have just highlighted the additional enhanced category of data protection and the applicant of the legitimate complaint. However, we must also think about the protection of workers, teachers, school teachers who, as I said, were most often in those 25% of anonymous applications quite often exposed to certain malicious miscalculations, whether these anonymous notions were of course not known where they came from as soon as they were anonymous, but they were also quite often the subject of mutual malice even inside the school, but certainly abuse of someone on the side and outside the institutions themselves. Therefore, if someone thinks it's justified, they can file a play and sign it. And the inspection will keep his identity. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33420	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, with these amendments in question, it is definitely in some way protected by both educational staff and school institutions from unfounded applications. I'm only interested if you can say on Monday how many of the total number of applications are the number of anonymous applications in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33422	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33423	Well, I think, Mr. Representative, I think I mentioned it earlier, 25% of the total cases reported are anonymous reports that so far the educational inspection was absolutely mandatory to act in the same dynamics and intensity as any other application. Now we have said that, according to anonymous reports, we can't ban anyone from reporting anonymously, it's simply not legally possible to ban it, but we can give an indication that this application does not require immediate treatment, but it can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33424	The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33425	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here you are and now you have said that somewhere around 25% of all received performances on the educational inspection followed by supervision. As regards the proposal for these amendments to the laws these days, it can be heard that these amendments to the law have not been suspended anonymously and that inspectors are not prohibited to act on them. I believe that these remarks are unfounded, as much as I believe that this law strengthens the reasoned reporting of irregularities on the one hand and strengthens the protection and protection of the identity of the applicant, and on the other hand sends a clear message to all those who submit unfounded and subjectively motivated anonymous applications, so please further clarify this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33426	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33427	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Well, among other things, these two articles are just directed towards something that, if you remember, our educators have been looking for, and that is to protect their dignity and restore their reputation to teachers, teachers, educators, and I think that just this one move that is only one in the segment of return to that place and dignity to teachers who deserve in society is one first step. Of course, there are a whole series of other segments that will contribute to the return of the position in society to teachers that they absolutely deserve. I'm not saying they don't have a reputation, but they certainly need to be protected as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33428	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33429	Dear Minister, here's a lead by colleague Bedekovic on the matter before me and the replicas you explained the protection of the information of the applicant who will be protected and according to the law should indeed be, so please mechanisms and protection, and indeed when we say whether there are exceptions to anonymous application because by meeting on the ground with people there will certainly be a variety of reasons why in certain explicit cases this application or the applicant for his own safety must remain anonymous, will there be room for mitigation and how is it regulated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33430	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33431	As I was saying earlier, there is, of course, the possibility that someone should file an anonymous report if no one can be prohibited. And until the very educational inspection is that, of course, it assesses the well-weighted enough of such an anonymous application that it finds us, and if it finds that they are a very principled general type or repetitive then it is not mandatory to act on them but will then wait for it to come and to submit a serious application signed with the name and last name and the data as defined. However, of course there are circumstances where, where the inspection would have taken place, but we must be aware, and we have had very unpleasant situations when some of these reports came out and afterwards we have had very ugly experiences, so if you want to do so with the recent suicide of an educational worker whose identity and accusations came out in public, and they turned out to be quite unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33432	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33433	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, suppose someone filed an application or submission against a particular legal or natural person in case the procedure was initiated, that is, these amendments to the law also have the obligation of inspection to keep a secret. Will the person against whom the proceedings were initiated be allowed to know the identity of the person who reported it or not? And if he finds out through the so-called leaks of information, are there any sanctions scheduled?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33434	The answer of the Honorable Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33435	The person against whom the procedure was initiated will, of course, become public at one point in school and the environment itself, but it is not the purpose of this amendment to these articles to protect those who have generally sinned or may not have sinned, but this inspection will determine, and this purpose of these amendments of the law is that the instrument of educational inspection is not being misused because of some teachers, schools or directors, which has often happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33436	Next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33437	Dear Minister, we know all of us who have either worked in the field or we have been on the school boards that we have a lot of on-call applicants who write it regularly and their performances, send it to the inspection, the inspection has to act, it has to work and it's actually a big problem. Have you considered, when writing the law, the possibility of applying a method applied in some European countries, which is that a tax is paid for each play and if it turns out that the play is false or is not proved not to be returned afterwards?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33438	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33439	That's the question we've been thinking about, Mr. Representative, but it's very difficult. There is some practice in one country that has defined some cash deposit of the one who reports it, and if this application is shown to have been established then that deposit is returned, and if it is proved to be unwarranted, unfounded, malicious or otherwise, then it remains without that deposit, and it seems to me that the amount is somewhere around EUR 100, but I'm not sure we could apply something like this at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33440	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33441	Dear Ministers, the problem of slow and no educational inspection has been updated recently when it comes to teacher applications for the work of directors. It's part of an educational inspection, as far as the Labour Act is concerned, mobbing. We had, unfortunately, one case of schoolteacher suicide after a series of her calls on mobbing, the inspection didn't respond, and unfortunately, it ended tragically as it ended. The question arises, so why is it so easy to step on teachers, and it's hard to get the principals out of the chair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33442	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33443	Ma'am. MPs, what you asked me was about another Law on Education and Education in which the status and position of directors in schools is defined in which I think it should be changed as well. We now have a situation that directors are permanent jobs with an election period, therefore after the end of the time of 4g. These directors go to re-elections, however, they left and lost their job as teachers or professors, and they definitely do not have the possibility to return to their previous jobs from which they came, such as the dean. But it's not good and it needs to be done, it needs to be arranged, but it's governed by another law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33444	The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33445	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, here I welcome your determined intention to lift anonymous applications that have been introduced on, I suppose, the example of populist democracy that anyone can, may report, and also those who do their job on all occasions. What was actually the problem with anonymous reports is that although it is anonymous, in fact, after leaving the educational inspection from school, an anonymous notifier is known and actually remains a mess in the chamber. And this is an excellent thing for me to actually be a school in which we should be the atmosphere of tolerance, joy, laughter, acceptance of knowledge and skills to be the first without being the first anonymous applications usually made by those who have not proved themselves in their work in the system of education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33446	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33447	Thank you, Mr. Representative. It was also the intention of these changes, and I think that these changes of such anonymous school applications will be far, far less due to some unresolved human relations and collegiate relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33448	The next replica of the respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33449	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, when reading that public consultation, there was a lot of interested public and the ministry's answer to more questions was that the educational inspection was not competent for... pedagogical supervision of the teacher's work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when you look at what the inspector's tasks are, he, among other things, determines how work monitoring is done, student advancement, commendation, rewarding, evaluation. Now, what is the procedure here, is this notifier going directly to the inspection or is he going to contact the teacher first, then the principal, maybe the parent council, and would it be possible for the inspector to have an insight into the e-data, there's a lot of dispute about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33450	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33451	Ma'am. MPs, that overlaps there, usually those who do not work in schools themselves do not see the difference between applying to the educational inspection for individual segments of the educational process, and then suing for a particular treatment, or the work of the teacher himself in teaching or, or, or, or, or controlling the learned knowledge of students, etc., it is really within the competence of the Education and Education Agency, so other bodies. However, in such cases, the agency is obliged to place it in the jurisdiction of those who, by law, are authorised to do so. So you don't have to refuse, so then you say now you're taking it home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33452	The next replicas of the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33453	Dear Minister. Here I have a slightly different view of things than most of the MPs that I agree with in some other subjects. So, as for anonymous applications that are unfounded, I think anyone who does an objective and quality job has nothing to do with hundreds if they need such anonymous and unfounded applications, here they need to ask the question of how an educational inspection works. If its work is of quality, if it really determines irregularities where there are, and confirms by rejecting applications after determining the fact that nothing has been disputed, then raises the quality of the education system as a whole. I think that the educational inspection should be reviewed by official duty, any allegations, any suspicion that there have been irregularities anywhere or even when the cause of action arises from the information published in the media, then we will be on the trail of what the educational inspection really needs to be. I don't think focus should be on whether the application is signed or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33454	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33455	Dear MPs, of course, that the educational inspection is one of the key segments and that the work of the educational inspection should be served primarily to improve the quality of our primary and secondary education institutions in the first instance, but I must also tell you that in the Republic of Croatia I mentioned the number of 12,000 items in the last five years, all of which worked together with a letter and a number in the Republic of 35 inspectors, no more. Unfortunately, it's amazing, but there's no special will for people to do this job, which is certainly one of the problems, and moving aside from anonymous reports primarily contributes to what we just said, and that's calculating with individuals, and when those in a mass of cases are not founded.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33456	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33457	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. Educational inspection and anonymous applications are an important and important topic, of course that the effects of influence on our education, of course and in the protection of educational workers, especially our students and their parents. But I would just mention here, since the founders are mostly county or cities, mostly county schools that simply in schools today we have organized transportation of our students who are financed by the ministry, county or somewhere local self-government or parents, but I don't know whether you are familiar with the educational inspection that so often in Sinj and Cetina region buses that you pay like I mean ministry, state and county as founder, that simply parents are afraid to send their children to those old buses that are hundreds of years old. They're buses where children are literally at risk of life, and every once in a while, some bus burns down. Do you know about this information and have you done anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33458	Thank you very much. It's an important question, but it has nothing to do with an educational inspection, the minister will or will not answer. What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33459	The Honorable Chairman. As a parliamentary representative, you have injured an officer. 238. Because he has the interest of students, parents in this area, and I ask the minister if he knows an educational inspection of these cases where the lives of children are at risk. Four buses a month, and people call me up, literally up, that's death. So this is a question within the educational.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33460	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33461	The educational inspection shall have a clearly defined part-round of its work and the educational inspection shall not be in charge of transport and public transport. I must say, it must be one of the important segments, of course, that we carry children and that children must be safe anyway. Educational inspection solves the problem within school institutions, of course, solves when certain threats occur, if we do not have other bodies in that case intervene. We also have psychological help here, of course, that in the event of excess, other services go away, not just an educational inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33462	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. You may go to the minister's seat. We have the first club of Croatian sovereigns time will be shared by respected representatives Zekanovic and Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33463	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. There is a really important topic ahead of us, but we must never and must not be distracted with the mind of exceptional importance of people who surrender daily in the transfer of knowledge to our young generations. All of you who have had the opportunity to be in that calling in that service know how noble it is, but a painfully responsible job, how significant it is for future generations, for the very survival of the community. And every teacher, as well as that primary school, high school, and in any other form of education, is a fundamental and important principle of life that he knows more, that he personally does everything in his power to expand the limits of his knowledge, that ignorance that is objectively what he is, so there is lifelong learning, is as little. In fact, when it comes to those smart, sweet, good young people, children, to give them the impression that learning is worth learning and to be their role model. And everyone who works like that and the system that's set up so that our teachers, our teachers are just being a role model to children, they're doing well. This decision that you are in fact this law and the rule that you intervene to imply that there exists in that circle people who are irresponsiblely doing their job, but in themselves it is that we can say the defeat of this ideal point of view that I have made. But we need to be aware that this is life and that it exists because the worst thing that can happen in one educational system is that we have mediocres, that we come below average to the teacher's place, teachers, and that such modest knowledge is passed on to young generations, then that in the beginning this negative selection leads to whether parents have to intervene and pay additionally for instructions for their children or there are talented programs, but those who are left to such a system of poor education are certainly going out of sufficient and short for what we are obliged to give them as a society. So I welcome all the elements, all the attempts to try in one normal civilized way and really let people who don't do their job start doing it better because the damage they do is huge. But also, Mr. Fuchs, do everything, don't spare money that I know you don't have much in the education of professors. That's the key. Once upon a time there were three months of education, sometimes a long time ago that I would say even in wartime 10, 15 years ago that I wasn't talking further, about all the elements of the profession in all the scientific disciplines, our teachers were gathering, sharing those knowledge, guests teachers at higher levels were presenting them with personal novelties, newspapers at some other levels, but unfortunately there aren't, today as we had the opportunity to listen to two years ago in a big protest of teachers practically this money is gone and we've limited ourselves to solving... clean wages, not to say anything else. But in order to ensure a continuity of one quality teaching at all levels, you must realise and find the money that these teachers and teachers are continuously educated and systematically, not only to be left to their own responsibilities as they do but simply to find themselves from time to time like judges, as the state's attorneys find themselves, as in some seminars many other colleagues where it is necessary, so must our educators, our employees, of whom I say much, depends. And all of us here today are deeply grateful and all those who look at us to their teachers. Each one of us left one clue and each one of us acted on something to commit to, whether we were in the country, whether we were in town, those dear people were the first window in the world to our children, and when they grew up, they opened up new spaces for them. And that is why we will support your initiative to help here, help the quality of education, but we also oblige you as parliamentary representatives to do everything as Minister and your team to make it easier for our teachers to come to knowledge as easily as possible and not be too burdensome for them to come to the classroom because of their poverty. It's not just enthusiasm, it has to be society's concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33464	Thank you. Apparently, counterpart Zekanovic won't speak. Okay. The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33465	Dear Mr. Reiner, Vice-President of HS, Mr. Bukarica, Mr. Honored Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. I'm glad to be here today from this place in the Parliament to talk about teachers and teachers and their position in society. I could say that I was a long teacher myself, I worked in the system for 16 years, two years in elementary school, and 14 years in high school. I loved that job very much, and I learned to appreciate the value of a teaching call. I really did my best, worked with great people at the Srdci elementary school and as I said for 14 years in the famous first Croatian high school in Rijeka, and I met many, many other colleagues from other schools. Today’s Law on Educational Inspection in front of us should solve a part of the problem that plagues our teachers and teachers, which is the conduct of an educational inspection. When and how does the educational inspection work, what kind of reports are they based on? What are the rights of applicants and what are the rights of registered educational workers? All these questions of today’s law should be answered, but the answers are partial. In view of these two articles that are changing, let me say, as if the government had also been affected by a wave of pre-election pulsism, which is very often mentioned by the ruling, forgetting that they are the relatives of authentic Croatian pulsism. So, unfortunately, with this Law of Educational Inspection. It was intended to sell to our educators the story that under this law they would be protected from chicane treatment based on anonymous applications, and the right to the truth that this law does not make any difference. It is only prescribed that an educational inspection is required to carry out signed reports, which then leads to the fact that anonymous applications can always be taken into account. Gentlemen, the only thing new in this law is a provision under which an educational inspection can refuse repeated reports, which the inspection has already made a metric decision on. And that's more or less it. Teachers, you need to know what's going on, the Croatian public need to know what's going on, in fact nothing special new. I think the ministry could have been much more and much better. Here you are, Minister Fuchs, I really think it could have been better. The phenomenon of anonymous applications or I'm going to tell you an obnoxious anonymous application in our school in recent years has escalated and become all-consuming, there's a lot of reasons for that. Sometimes there are disagreements inside the school, all of us who worked in the system know exactly what's going on. Sometimes there's an exaggeration, and the unfounded ambition of parents over the school success of a child, there's a lot of reasons. But in the end, often in that fire of anonymous applicants, honest people get killed, good, hardworking, honest teachers get their heads, they get their heads, they get their heads pressed, they get their checks, they report, they rarely leave the profession they've dedicated their lives to. With me in high school, high school professors, even young scientists, you get on the wrong guy, hop brother, that in two years 15-time inspection comes to school. A man says whatever I need, so who am I here with, what is this? Who's protecting him? Who's protecting our teachers? Who has this cloak that covered our teachers and said we will keep you safe because you are important to us, because you are important to us, because you are worthy of us, because without you Croatia cannot go forward, without education, without teachers, without teachers? The Institute of Anonymous Applications has been very abused since it was introduced. If for any reason you are wondering how to make a teacher's life miserable, the answer is a very simple, anonymous application. How does a teacher make life, existence, everything? Anonymous application to a friend, anonymous application. If a teacher accidentally looks at someone wrong, an anonymous application, if anyone wants to get rid of it, an anonymous application. Suddenly the teacher gets dozens and dozens of anonymous applications, and the man finally says, "I'm sick and tired of raising my hands, changing my brand or changing my school." If a teacher accidentally encounters a parent who has big plans for his child, who has actually caved in at school, there he is again in a maze of anonymous applications that are difficult to find a way out. And no matter how good and honest a teacher you're never sure how it's gonna end and that's reality, that's true, you're never sure. You're always wondering if you'll still be able to convince the inspection that this unsigned book that's muddying you, demeaning you, difaming you, often in the roughest way at the level of slander, doesn't suit the truth. Will you be able to convince that inspection that's coming over your head? Unfortunately, many have used the institution of anonymous application for their personal accounts, and this should end urgently, Mr. Minister, please, on behalf of Croatian teachers, let us put an end to this more. That's what we have to deal with. Educational inspection must never, ever, ever serve anyone as a tool for any personal accounting or for any end account. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to protect our educators, to really protect them from anonymous mistreatment and harassment. An education system like any public system has its own hierarchy. The first column for solving all problems is always the school and director's level, we should not ignore it, the school level and the director's, not to skip those stairs and go straight to the ministry, immediately to the inspection. You could therefore at least try to regulate the handling of anonymous reports as an exception to the handling of anonymous reports when there is other information about a problem. This way anonymous applications will continue to be the most common tool for chicaning professors and teachers. Someone finally has to say a lot. You in the government and we here at HS are invited to act together and to remove this problem, not to camouflage it and to present such camouflage to the Croatian public as a solution. That's not the answer. Let us do everything we can to protect our teachers, happy and satisfied teachers in schools are a provision of quality education, and thus the perspectives of our children who are the foundation of Croatia's future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33466	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister. Here's the second time today I'm actually going to start by saying that we're going to support this proposed law. We personally believe that the system of anonymous applications has been counterproductive, the whole mechanism has actually been contaminated and has produced many abuses, and it has already been said quite enough that there is no need to repeat it. That's why this change was necessary and welcome. However, the work of the educational inspection mainly refers to the control of the compliance of school activities with the laws, rules, general acts, the annual plan and the programme, the school curricula because the activity of the educational inspection consists mainly of harmonising the normative functioning of the school, and the educational process is much more complex. It is too complex to be evaluated and evaluated and controlled only by quantitative and formal criteria. Therefore, the role of the inspection is discriminatory because they assess only the form and is not competent for expert-pedagogical supervision and cannot judge the quality of the teacher's work. Therefore, the position of educational inspectors is paradoxical because they control normative compliance, and they are not lawyers until teachers or professional associates have long since been. And that is why, ultimately, the results of the oversight of the educational inspection are always general and do not cover all segments of such a complex process as the educational one. And that the educational system is quite normally developed, that it is creative, that autonomous educational inspection should not even begin to act on perhaps most of the applications it has received, and certainly not after the applications if the following steps are not met, or if they are not observed by any problem to the next steps. 1. regular communication on the line of student-parent-teacher- subject teacher- professional teaching service. 2. Teacher's Council, 3. The Ethics Committee, 4th, when it comes to working dispute or collective agreement, trade union and 5th, of course, the School Committee, because if any problem arises, it would certainly crystallise a comprehensive solution much more professionally, much more quality and better than the formal bureaucratic findings of the educational inspection. In this sense, it is in vain to hope that by improving the work of an educational inspection, we will improve the work of schools. The keys to progress are actually in the hands of others, teachers, directors, parents and founders. It is up to the teachers to invest their knowledge, creativity and enthusiasm, it is up to the directors to expand and enrich programmes and preserve and cultivate autonomy, school autonomy, parents to participate and build a culture of participation instead of a culture of pressure, it is up to policymakers to give up the selection practice or setting directors based on customerism and political volunteerism, and to build criteria based on programmes and competences. And finally, to all of us, not just at the ministry, but at all, in society as a whole, it is up to all of us that the first ones in this process, the first ones mentioned, and these are teachers, to recognize and in every sense recognize them as the ones who really create a new value. Only then, if so, will not only amend and supplement the Law on Educational Inspection but also the Law on Educational Inspection and the Educational Inspection be much less important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33468	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Puljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33469	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers once again, dear colleagues and colleagues. A lot of the past years have been talked about full curricula reform, and nearly five years will pass since 50,000 people rose up and protested in defence of education reform. I don't think this country remembers such protests a long time ago. One of the most important elements of this reform, as well as the Education and Science Strategy, is the full evaluation of the work of employees and teachers and the raising of their social reputation. Teachers and teachers should enjoy a great reputation in society, and careers in the education and education system should be among the ten most desirable careers. Is that how it is today? So I think these anonymous applications are in some way jeopardizing the position of teachers and teachers in our society. The worst thing that can happen to you to one teacher is that after some anonymous application that shows up unfounded, he remains humiliated and humiliated. In the middle of 2019, Teacher groups organised through social networks encouraged the signing of a petition called on the Ministry of Education to abolish the possibility of anonymous applications by educational professionals. It sought to protect the functioning of the system by disabling anonymous submissions to an educational inspection. Therefore, they asked not to take into account submissions showing that the applicant did not respect the usual protocol and hierarchy of institutions. So, first appeal to the teacher or the classroom, the teacher's, the teacher's council, the principal, the school board. The anonymity of the application may, at first sight, protect the student from a potential later revenge of teachers, but this is actually about the possibility of abuse because of a possible violation that does not even have to happen, and if it happens, it will. In other words, because of the presummation of guilt, an instrument has been introduced that even makes the educational process impossible in some situations. In addition to the reciprocal criminal provisions of the institutions and the director of supervised persons, in the event of proven failures, the petition also requested criminal provisions for the heads of the educational inspection, or applicants, to an educational inspection if failures are not determined. The group then 45 minutes 2019. He's handing over more than 8,000 signatures into Mrs. McNally's hands. Branke Ramljak, Mr. Government of Spray, Lydia King, however, nothing happened. After handing in their signatures, teachers continued to perform the petition, sign a petition with the desire to finally narrow down the space for unfounded and false applications that have been the source of abuse, frustration, degradation, pressure and living above and so on in society underrated educators. In the last five years, we've heard the number 25% of applications were anonymous. Here this year something moves from place to place, this is the law we'll also support. More than 435 comments arrived at this law in public consultation. Some of the objections or perhaps inconsistencies in the proposal to amend the Law on Educational Inspection result that the possible application of an unknown applicant will not be considered a submission and that the educational inspection is not required, but will not necessarily be treated. Therefore, the suspension of anonymous applications is announced unless, of course, it is an unknown applicant based on whose request the procedure can obviously be initiated in accordance with the official duty which was, in practice, possible so far. However, it is also stated in the explanation that all of this should be clarified in particular in light of the fact that applicants are not known or unknown to the parties to the inspection procedure that is being initiated under official duty. In addition to the above question, why is the concept of an unknown applicant now formally introduced, and how can there even be an unknown applicant submission when the submission must have information about the applicant’s name, last name and other data in order to be considered a submission? So is this an oversight just in the text or is something deliberately said indefinitely like this? So what the authors of this petition require is that that submission which has no data on the applicant will not be considered at all. You said here in the statement and in the replies to the replicas that this is left to the assessment, however, so no anonymous applications are prohibited, but it is left to the assessment whether they are correct or not. The problem that needs to be solved after the amendment of this law is the conduct of the Education and Education Agency and the Agency for Professional Education and the two agencies can receive application for the work of teachers from parents, schools, lawyers or anonymous applications, can also be submitted to them by educational inspection, and can be done on their own. The question is, will the agency stick to the fact that they won't be able to monitor any anonymous reports they're getting themselves? Why is that? Because the educational inspection on whose law we are discussing does not exercise supervision or proceedings against persons, it is not responsible for professional pedagogical supervision of the work of educational workers i.e. It's what teachers do and their advisors do. What I have also mentioned in my question and the replica of your presentation to the Minister, therefore outside of these anonymous reports is the problem of slow and no treatment of that same inspection when it comes to the teacher's application to the work of directors. As you said in response, so you said the inspection here never replaced the principal because that way it's going to happen that the man is going to be out of a job, that means that here it doesn't matter if he's doing bad work, if they break the law and if that application is justified, nothing will happen to them, and that's actually bad. Here's a terrible case, so why is it so easy to step on a teacher, and it's so hard to get the principals out of the chair? Well, maybe because here we have heard the remarks here, which in the very setting of these directors is a lot and what in fact makes Croatia a whole of political setting, corruption, clientism, so also in that part of our society, and it suffers from political setting and something that we need to get rid of. So, let's work together this law is one step forward to say, with the clarification of these certain details that are unclear to us, but let's all work together to really restore the reputation of teachers and teachers in this society and that their interest really becomes, their career really becomes one of the most desirable careers in our society because we'll agree I think everyone here is that education and foundation, education and science is the foundation of every modern society. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33470	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker once more, will support the SDP Representatives' Club's proposal for a Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection. It is the result of the long-standing aspirations of teachers and teachers of educational staff, but also of a very clear position on the most remembered and maximum protest and strike conducted by educational educational workers at the end of 2019, seeking at that time to increase their coefficient for the complexity of jobs by 6.11%), and on the other hand to abolish the insane system of lumens to which all professional training was reduced, the imagined professional training of the then Minister Divjak, which could be one segment of professional training, but never the beginning and end of the same in the collection of badges. And secondly to abolish anonymous applications through this Law of Educational Inspection. Here, a year and a month ago, as Mr. Mihalinec's head of the union of secondary schools reported to us, the final part of the requirement to increase the coefficient of complexity of jobs by 6.11%) has been met, we know very little about why, and here I see that we are going through this bill and towards the aspirations shown both at the protest and what she said to her colleague Puljak and through an extensive petition that was given to the ministry's leadership at the time. This is a small step and I support you ministers in what you said in the opening section that this Law on Educational Inspection actually requires a little more serious changes. This is the fulfillment of one promise after a year and a few days, but the inspection control system and the inspection concept itself should be really well audited and improved. It's been a long, long time since this law has lived, society has moved forward, the education system has gone forward, but I'm afraid this law may not have followed, I'm not going to say trends, but needs. We support, so two are the key elements and aspects of this bill. It guarantees protection in some way, the protection of educational workers and school institutions from arbitrary or unfounded applications in the sense that someone who wishes to complain of a violation of the law or something under the authority of an educational inspection must have at least so much stability and faith in what it says to be ready to stand behind it by name and last name. Now, are we going to guarantee that if we look at Articles 1 and 2 or paragraphs 1 and 2? The proposed Article 1, we said that the inspection was carried out on the basis of an application or on the basis of the statement, and that the premise must include the name, last name, address of the residence, contact details for the natural persons, and the legal person’s name, seat and signature of the responsible person. I agree with those colleagues and colleagues who have said that identifying a notifier who, of course, is not intended to train an et orbi to be published to everyone, it will be known to the inspector, the authorised person, he is required through this law to keep the anonymity of the notifiers, which is logical and normal, but I see no reason why they would not be listed here those key identification moments such as either the government signature or the OIB. Now I may be entering the area that it's forbidden to look for an OIB in this part of it, and I'm building on it right away, but I don't see any reason why it would fall behind as a prerequisite for a natural person if it was prescribed for a legal person. After the decision on, therefore, it is the authority of an authorised person or an educational inspector to assess on the basis of the submission whether the procedure will be initiated or will be rejected, so to speak, so to speak. In the event of proceedings being initiated, I do not know why the existing law has not been transposed into this law that, within a reasonable, reasonable period of time, it is also noticeable to the person who is the applicant or to give feedback on whether this law will be initiated or not. So far that deadline's been 30 days, now there's no deadline, so there's no one to report on it. I don't know if it was accidentally or intentionally, deliberately dropped. And that would be about the very text of the law. But I'm gonna use these four more minutes just to share with you some of my own, my thoughts. Different countries have arranged this differently, Finland is so often cited in Croatia and the country that we often watch when we talk about the quality system of education it does not have this inspection at all. Now if that's so arranged that the inspection isn't necessary or things are arranged otherwise, it's now a matter that we can discuss at some other time. Great Britain and Ireland puck their inspections have enormous powers to the extent that they can shut down your school, means completely great powers might be greater than if the ministry has at this time in the Republic of Croatia. We've decided on this, this middle I'm going to say it the way of moderate authority. However, what you might think about in the future is that the inspection is not perceived and that it is not essentially aware of that it is part of some restrictive or repressive apparatus and that, together with the Education and Education Agency, it is given through this part of professional pedagogical supervision and this inspection that we cannot observe separately but are combined to give them a perhaps greater consultative role in both the advancement and the training that is missing in our system anyway. Thirdly, it is true and start to fight and you and future ministers for that to be teamed up in some way because indeed 35 inspectors through 4 district offices Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka that work with somewhere 2,000 applications a year are 2,000 supervised institutions of primary, secondary schools, which preschool institutions which other schools or schools are, but institutions that conduct education and education can be a mere open school, adult education institutions, all of which is actually the jurisdiction, jurisdiction of inspection and supervision over 60,000 employees in the system it is abnormally simple to do quality work with so few people who are also very little paid if we take into account which profiles they should be in some other segments have much larger, larger salaries. I am sorry, it means, but also fourthly, if we talk about certain identified irregularities of the type that have been done or that, for example, contracts have been concluded in the past of the law, that some people are working past the tender, when that inspection surveillance is established, what is going to happen is that there will be a ban on work or a cancellation of a contract of work, to whom, who is working without such a contract, and what will happen to those who are, in fact, teachers, the teacher is not a party to the proceedings, it is a legal person in this case a school represented by the Director. What will happen, for example, to the principal who is responsible for the functioning of the school and to everything that happens directly in this case on the basis of the decision of the school board and the one who signs that contract, nothing will happen. Let's even these criteria a little bit, if we have some kind of warning as the first level and ask for corrections, and then reach out for punishments, let's even it out in a way that they are, that teachers, teachers, or employees in educational institutions, and on the other hand, directors are treated in the same way. And thirdly, fourthly, the inspection cannot do as much as one director can in general for climate, mode of business, interpersonal relations in a working collective. And I'm sorry that we gave up the idea of licensing directors to which we would professionalise this system ourselves, and we would avoid this if we didn't know what to do with them after they became directors, because unfortunately they can't go back to the system and think maybe they, like in some other countries after their principal's term of office, given the experience they have if they're making good progress, to be advisors just to have some kind of, or the best directors to end up being educational inspectors well paid. So it's some concept that we should go to, to which we should seek to use experience, knowledge of everyone and in the best way to valorize it, as well as teachers and teachers and in licensing, which is unfortunately a lost idea, but also that we also punish when some good, good consciences are violated, legal regulations that school should be a educational institution and an example in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33472	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Rade Simicevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33473	Here's my thanks to the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, I welcome the Minister's greeting with his associate, colleague and fellow MPs here we have before us a proposal for a Law on Educational Inspection and I certainly welcome the excellent intention of another Minister of Science and Education to refer offices to anonymous applications that have created tensions in all collectives in the system of education and education. An anonymous application that was introduced by example of populist democracies with the aim of making a complaint to anyone and to those who do their job on all occasions best. We know from practice that anonymous reports in most cases were rejected as unfounded, but after an anonymous application, there were almost always dramatic disturbances in the Chamber. Although they are called anonymous applications, an anonymous applicant has always been revealed since the departure of the educational inspection. In order to avoid unwanted situations at school, we advocate that such a form of view of the valley and that it does not come out for insight, but for signed applications, and the unsigned are rejected as unfounded. I would also like to say here that prior to the release of the educational inspection, the Director or the Director should have insight into the application and take the first step in solving the problem that has arisen if the problem really exists. This is a request from most of the 50,000 excellent teachers and teachers working in a system of education and education in primary and secondary schools and a clear sign that some articles of the law are necessary or necessary to change whether they have not been accepted by life and are not confirmed as valid. These amendments to the laws in Articles 13 and 16 want to stop individuals' self-will and to protect a teacher who does his job in a system of education and education with quality and responsibility, or by raising what is most valuable to our young students. These changes support all hardworking and hardworking teachers and teachers whose work is in the education and education system, not just a profession, but not those who are fortunately in the minority and do not care about collectives and good relations in the collective, but their will ahead of the social values and the general good students they teach. Many of them used the Institute of Anonymous Application to hide behind their unhappiness, and they also disrupted human relations in collectives. I take the proposed amendments to the law on educational inspection as a strengthening of the reasoned reporting of irregularities, regardless of who is at the same time discouraged by those who submit unfounded, subjectively motivated anonymous applications. I also consider signing applications to encourage civil courage, which at this point may be more necessary in Croatia than ever. It should not be forgotten that it is not only about submissions which point to possible irregularities in the work of the directors who are far ahead of all the anonymous applications, as well as teachers and teachers, and these submissions are most often not about the competence of the educational inspection, but about the agencies carrying out expert-pedagogical supervision, but are primarily about the protection of pupils, and this problem should be addressed with extreme seriousness and responsibility. This is the beginning of believing comprehensive work on better system normation where the focus should be on the teaching process, i.e. education and education with the aim of putting students in focus and gaining new knowledge and skills. More important than these changes is actually to restore the educational component of the school that is lost. We know best who we have done and who are still working in the system of education and education. The same inevitably points to the need for better and better regulation of rights, as well as the obligations of all stakeholders in this process, so the educational and other staff of school institutions, parents and students. The role of the Educational Inspection is to monitor the legality of the work of the school institution, but not to professional pedagogical supervision, and this is where these concepts are often pursued. The Law on Educational Inspection as an implementing regulation is important, but it is also not the only tool for educational inspectors in the realization of that role. Presumptions for effective and objective supervision should only be created by clear and unequivocal provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and by a series of accompanying regulations, as it is not doubtful how practical application of the law indicates certain shortcomings and possibilities of different interpretations. The following needs to strengthen the ministry's role in the appointment and resolution of directors in all school institutions where salaries are provided by means of the state budget. Strengthen the role and responsibility of the school’s professional management director, i.e. in praises, awards and sanctions, as well as the implementation of the annual plan and the school’s work programme. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The law ensures the functionality of data verification from criminal records, which is also indicated in its reports by the Ombudsman for children. It is thought that people who are already convicted of being able to come into the system of education and work neatly and educate our students. Institutionally different to position professional-pedagogical supervision, specify deadlines, exercise of the rights of pupils and parents in the evaluation process, and possible exceptions. The regulation of criminal offences on the basis of the current analysis of statistics most frequently detected by the Educational Inspectors would allow the application of mandated penalties imposed by educational inspectors. The Education and Education Agency should be reformed and entrusted with expert pedagogical supervision in schools in a more effective way than it has ever been. Redefine the role of the teaching service in school, the Ethics Code, or the Teacher's Council. The school board complement the members of the Ministry of Science, Education and strengthen the role of founders in the management of the structure of the school. This is just a few indications that the need to amend the Law on Education and Education, which would then create a basis for the comprehensive amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection and remove the need for further intervention in this regulation. The regulation of legal norms would also discourage those who aim to create anarchy and disorder in the system of education and education, while the primary goal would remain in teaching and acquiring knowledge and skills, as well as the education and education of young generations in the spirit of civilization and Croatian values. The HDZ Club will support changes to the Law on Educational Inspection clearly with the aim of abolishing anonymous applications, and creating a positive atmosphere in the chambers and certainly protecting the best, which is a teacher who does quality and responsible work and is actually making extraordinary efforts in the education of young people to acquire certain skills and skills so that they can be later competitive on the market or enrollment in universities or vocational education on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33474	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Dretar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33475	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear secretary, Mr. Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to start by reminding Mr. Minister of the debate with Representative Bulja. I looked at the article, that is, the Law on the Educational Inspection, and in Article 11 of the Law, within the authority of an educational inspector, it states that he has the right and must check whether the student transport is carried out in accordance with the law. So what Representative Bulj said is within the jurisdiction of the Educational Inspectorate. And secondly, I'm going to ask you in your final address, we didn't get along very well, or I didn't formulate the question. So let's assume the situation in which a teacher or a teacher at school applies against the director of the same institution that all of these amendments to the law require the information, so the name and last name, the contact address, all that is needed. Inspector, take that stand and proceed. He will, of course, treat the director, or legal person, and preserve the identity of the person who filed the application, as these amendments oblige him to do so. But I wanted to tell you what would happen if, during the course of the educational surveillance itself, information about the identity of the notifier was leaked in the months to come, and that director found out who reported it, apparently he could, that person might have some discomfort within his working community, so I will ask you best to answer that question myself in your final presentation. What I have noticed is that the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection contains only two active articles. It's all together about five pages, and the complete text has a volume of as many as a hundred and 77 pages. 167 pages of public consultation. The fact is that in just 15 days, how long the consultation took 435 people felt the need to engage in a public debate on these amendments to the law is a clear indication of how important this is, but also sensitive. The problems in the education system are serious, affecting the everyday life of all of us, especially the quality of education of those we care about most, but not just children. These problems also affect the quality of life and the working environment over 60,000 employees in the education system. I'll just list some of those problems for you. These are school work organisations, enrolment of children in schools, number of classes and number of children in classes, the burden of children with a teaching programme, the system to evaluate and monitor the work of children in schools, to express pedagogical measures, the relationship of employees with children and their parents, to report to parents on the progress and behaviour of students, the quality of student nutrition in schools, the organisation of the transport of pupils especially in rural parts of the country, the organisation of student excursions and excursions, the employment of workers in the education system, the establishment and termination of working relationships, and that I do not owe them now. All of these are the current problems of the education system, but also the points in the Law on Educational Inspection, points that are actually a description of the workplace of educational inspectors. Today, we are discussing these changes that the Homeland Movement fully supports and, of course, a request to the applicant to identify the name, last name, address and contact details, and if the legal person is of course by name, seat and signature, and what I mentioned was the introduction obligation of the inspector and inspector to keep personal and other data of the applicant. I remind all of you that at the same time we have the Law on Professional Pedagogical Control, which is conducted by so-called school supervisors in front of two agencies popularly called AZO and ASO whose job should be to oversee the work of educational and educational workers shortened teachers. Unfortunately, most submissions make complaints about the teacher's work. The inspection shall review all these submissions, determine whose jurisdiction they are in and forward them to the agencies for further processing. The reality of the Croatian education system is not easy. Youth motivation to commit to teaching is low for several reasons – relatively small incomes, exposure to daily criticism and unprofessional assessments, burden of responsibility and unrealistic expectations, the covid-19 disease epidemic has also brought additional problems in the education system as early as March last year only continued where the teaching block stopped due to the school staff strike that lasted since the start of the school year 2019, 2020. Personally, I am the father of a girl who attended 4 classes of vocational school at the time, and I know what the problems were because of the failure to teach, or because of teaching in the distance. The statistics that tell us about success at the 2020 State Graduation are very worrying. As many as 5626 vocational school students, 37.8% of them fell to the state's graduation from one of the mandatory cases. There, of course, we can find and look for some reasons. These can also be the consequences of teaching remotely especially in experimental subjects such as chemistry and physics. One person who works in the education system has also sent us a personal view of this, so let me just say in short lines what a person who has been working as a teacher for 34 years says. More attention is being paid to parents whose opinion is more important than the knowledge that a child should adopt in his education, and then parents express their dissatisfaction through a teacher’s inspection and, of course, anonymously. They are getting more and more wings just like this by conducting an analysis of the teacher’s work by inspection without considering the consequences of such a relationship left on the teacher who should act both educationally and educationally in the school institution. I believe that and there are people in the profession who agree with these amendments to the law, that the inspection should only be manifested by the name and last name of the teacher with the name and last name and, of course, that the inspection should be carried out in its business solely on the basis of such applications. Of course, there are teachers who have failures in their work. Therefore, there should be an inspection that should primarily be capable and not similar. An inspection which should have and desirable work experience has been gained in education, knowledge of the functioning of the school system as well as the law on which they can give an opinion. But we're not just gonna talk about grades. The problem of evaluation has long been known, but let me remind you of many other problems. There is a shortage of children in the district schools, and in urban areas, extra children especially in Zagreb. This leads to too many students per classroom and makes it extremely difficult for the quality of teaching, not to say that in Zagreb elementary schools we often have an extremely large number of students per class unit where there is almost no and sometimes there is no physical place for any assistants in the course. There is also a problem with the burden of children with the teaching program, a curricula which is a reflection of sometimes political struggles and which we have been bringing for years and cannot agree on. There is also the mention of the system of rating and unfortunately the hyperinflation of the excellents in our schools, the quality of food in the school kitchens, regardless of how I particularly welcome the excellent initiatives that go towards healthy meals and a glass of milk for each student. We also know that school trips or excursions are very often the reason for disagreements between parents and schools, primarily because of the prices and the way they are conducted. In particular, as a representative of the Homeland Movement, I would like to highlight the separation of students in the nationally defined classes in certain schools especially in the Vukovar area where students of Croatian and Serbian nationalities go to different classes and therefore have been separated in some ways from small legs. Finally, allow me to step outside the jurisdiction of Mr. Minister and all of us here and address the most numerous part of the Croatian public, and these are parents. Ladies and gentlemen, neither politics nor the education system nor any minister, nor any inspection guarantee that the education system will give you a top-notch child. At this hasty time when it's more important to have a cell phone or a shoe brand your child has, your responsibility as a parent is greater than ever. Try to get them away from the computer, their cell phones, talk to them, so if you do anything else and play one man, don't get angry, and eventually, dear parents, meet your children. Finally, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will support these amendments to the Law on Sports Inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33476	Thank you. We are now going to individual debates and will first speak the esteemed representative Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33477	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As the one who spent 14 years in the education system and was a teacher and a member of the School Board and a school director, then also the director of the preschool training unit, and then a member of the Educational Council, and then, after the election of executive and kindergarten founder, I think I can talk about this topic. In my short career, I received and read letters from our Sabine and Mr. Fuchs. What I'd like to say here is I don't want to be covered first of all by the ministers. All that I am going to say personally would make the bill mentioned until the second reading a better one, and then, in fact, the education and education system would lead to one situation if we were to discuss inspection controls in a more comfortable and, of course, a much better position. In fact, it has happened so far that you have had applications because here is a child who has received a certain grade that is not in line with what the parent expected. So, these various reports went so banal that you could characterize them that you received an application because your left ear is not parallel to your right. Surely one such climate and work itself independently was not the one at which it was pleasant. So, the old law predicted by anonymous reports reporting countless times for all and all things, and eventually often of all and all the applications most often would not in terms of truth be anything special or of course worth mentioning. I think we all agree in principle more or less that one form of inspection is necessary. And it also doesn't mean that in this system they're all good and that someone is reporting them here because they're vanity. The fact is that in this system, like anywhere else, someone goes astray, so instead of some kind of guidance for growing up what's most sacred and this child is actually a destructive force. Because of such inspectional surveillance in the end, they serve both because of such ones, and they make sense. However, there are here in this proposal, and I believe that by the second reading we can correct them statistically speaking anonymously, they take a very low place in the very sense of justification for applications. What remains a problem here is the first thing, so inspection supervision depends on the will and assessment of the Head of the Educational Inspection Office, which puts them in the role of the legislator. So, leaders that are not good anyway, because we can put a question mark on the objectivity of the inspection supervision itself or of expressing the desire to go to a particular place itself, in fact, that is bound or is the subject of the application itself. Another thing I already mentioned by the government signature I think that if he is in fact obliged to make a certain application to a particular workplace as such it should be valid, it should contain in the application itself a government signature equal to that document we call a ID card. So I don't see any reason not to get stuck here like that. Furthermore, whether or not you have considered removing the possibility of repeating by one and the same applicants to always one and the same persons who are working in the system or one and the same institutions. So, do you plan to bring a certain form of restriction to prevent so-called ". the treatment of an external entity to workers of an educational institution. I think that the proposal that someone here has pointed out is about the diaries and travel expenses, so it's to unite that level with a tax rate, which the applicant will pay into the state budget later on will be refunded. I think you can find a way and I don't think you should spread your hands about it. Also, what isn't covered by time is the very provision, the very provision by which if a certain malfeasance is made in the sense that a person exercising rights under a special programme, is it about defenders, persons with disabilities I'll be done, I'm sorry, unless she's consummating her right because the responsible person has received someone else. [[Thank you very much.]] The inspection measure shall be such that the objection is terminated. [[Intruder: Thank you, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33478	Please, please. We have several replicas, stay, stay Here. [[Intruder: Super dark to answer all the way, thank you.]] He's the first respected representative of Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Kujundzic, we have witnessed an increase in violence among young people, as you have said, the subject of educational inspections may be the dissatisfaction of parents with a lower grade, but unfortunately peer violence is the subject of educational inspections and the Ministry of Science and Education has announced an action plan to prevent violence in schools for five years. I am interested in the fact that you were the principal of the primary school in the Snakes, and I think there are also geographical differences in the area of the Republic of Croatia whether you have met with peer violence and I mean, primarily, electronic violence among peers who are also on the rise and how do you regulate therefore and through an educational inspection to make violence as little as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33480	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33481	So each school as such is obliged to implement preventive programs. These preventive programmes are planned to be carried out by the school’s professional service and should be carried out in a clear evaluation of the same and the implementation of the same 2 times a year. The problem of peer violence is a charred, so there's no clear answer like that. He's somewhere the truth comes at the level of national belongings, somewhere coming at the level of religious belongings. What every school in itself certainly has, and these are mentioned preventive programs that are certainly implemented by professional associates on the other hand and on classroom classes as such, so the classrooms clearly define the plan of work of the school class department and according to that course they react. As far as electronic violence is concerned, it's definitely what's going on here. How to fight it specifically in situations where schools like this go to it and in terms of IT technology We also have things at home, I don't know, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But it doesn't mean we shouldn't try... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33482	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33483	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the honourable MP you said you've actually been through the entire system of education and education, the whole vertical, and I believe you've met even though you said you've been working a little bit, a little years, then you can think about what I've all met up with that I've had three times as many years of training from you. What I would like to do is troublesome is that no one here has anything against educational inspection, even if I had prescribed that at least once an educational inspection would come to every educational institution, but also on anonymous applications, you will confirm that, they never did anything good to the system of education and education, but only a mess and anarchy would have occurred, and we know that the chamber only works on warmly polite communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33484	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33485	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of Šimičević, therefore, the density if they can call it inspection controls necessarily depends on the number of educational staff, and therefore the number of schools that exist in a particular area. Definitely, for the Split-Dalmatia County and the recent head of Mr. Juric Botic, who led to mentioning the actual office of an educational inspection, so I personally have words of praise for him and for all other educational inspectors who acted in the context of the older brother, so always suggestive how to make the system better, not in the context of what should be included in the category so-called. He's getting beat up. As for anonymous applications, I had several of them, most often in terms of field trips and excursions, I believe that the same applicant across Dalmatia and Dubrovnik always reported everything the same, and what's most interesting is that everything would always be real under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33486	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33487	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I would refer only to this observation that the heads of the Educational Inspectorate's Office actually have great powers by deciding which application they will continue to process and which they do not. But in the situation that we have, and some colleagues, colleagues and colleagues have listed before, where education inspection offices are chronically sub-cated and when they have to monitor literally everything that is related to the work of the school so I would even dare to caricate and whether the light bulbs work in all classrooms, it is simply impossible to process all that amount of applications that are coming and some are at first sight can be said unfounded. So while such a situation is, while this chronic sub-optimation is, and while such powers or supervisory powers of inspection are simply so must be because they would not simply be able to do everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33488	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33489	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Hajdukovic, I agree with all of the words and I would also use this replica as one form of supplementation, so a reminder as such does not exist within the measures that inspection supervision as such gives. Therefore, in the event of a breach of a letter of law, a priority is to resolve the director himself which is often not correct or fair, and not fair if we take the directors who are in the first term, if we take the directors who are responsible in the first year of acting, of a particular school, if we take the situation that has been stopped by me very good licensing, so we also care if we take the situation that the director in the first year of office has no legal ability to have a mentor from whom he could learn or see at the end how a certain job is done. I think it's incorrect and unfair for such people not to insinuate the possibility of warning as such, and to throw out one form of resolution, and you just came and inherited maybe a super complex school, and maybe not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33490	Thank you. Mrs. Puljak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33491	Dear fellow, if I understood correctly what you had previously asked the Minister for these applications to be signed, that each of them had a signature, so somehow I'm trying here all the time, I guess that's my profession in the twenty-first year of the twenty-first century as much paper as possible and as much paper as I can get rid of here in the House of these papers. So here's whether it's necessary to have a signature or there are other ways to ensure that the identity of the person reporting these things to the Educational Inspector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33492	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33493	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues of Pulak, I think that in principle more or less all of us in this assembly agree that at the very least it is time of one form of digitisation and the possibility of e-signature as such. CARNET has tried something with digital cards, however not yet in full sense, although in my opinion here is a man who is 37 years old and 6 years of experience of directors behind him I see absolutely no reason for a great number of paperwork which, of course, we must first print, and then, of course, fill in, sign and stamp then and direct. On the other hand, you have a limited number of funds according to which you can obtain office equipment and material as such. So on several sides there would be a variety of savings. However, here I believe that our Radan will leave a mark in this area and thank you for this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33494	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33495	Thank you very much. When we talk about inspections, of course it is very important that the inspections do their job, and of course we try to thank teachers, teachers, and everyone in education in their efforts and the work they carry on to our future generations. And of course it's the tribune to be the meaning, the safety of teachers, teachers, all the educators. I, as a parent, can say that from where I come from that respected ministers of anonymous applications will always be sent, you will try to make it legal. But the fact is that when we talk about education, the most important thing is the safety of educational workers, as well as the safety of children. We're talking security, I'm told I'm talking off topic. It is clear to me that the intensity of this law in first reading is primarily to protect our professors who work within the education system and employees in the education system, and of course it is not out of the question if the parliamentary representative tells you about the child safety problem paid by the ministry, which is that several buses are burned per month and only during the transportation of students by the ability of drivers are these children alive. Just skillful. So that's a huge problem. We pay something, taxpayers, parents, local self-government, founder of counties, and we end up getting products, buses hundreds of years old. As the taxis are limited to five years of driving, I repeat the bus carrying children in the Cetina region once again the traffic of Makarska's owner Mate Jujnović for huge damage to the education system, for huge problems, for fear of parents and for threatened lives. That's not the first time I've talked about it. You can say it's off topic, but I come from a neighborhood where parents are afraid to direct their children a few miles, ten miles to a school in Sinj or I don't know a place any closer. These are rural areas, where huge profits by old buses, wrong technical buses cannot be allowed to be exploited. That's what I met the Minister of Transport about. I also met the County of Split-Dalmatia and these children are in fear, and especially their parents. It's not easy. Put yourself in their skin, that every few days the bus that the kids are on is burning. And if this is outside the box, I've asked you if you've met, you know the problem that's of life significant child safety. Education is very important. Here are the modern technologies. We have areas today when there was online teaching where people don't have the Internet, they don't have signals and we pay for the most expensive Internet. While the Government of the Republic of Croatia forgives half the fee, it is about a hundred million forgives the calf operators who have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. I'm telling you the truth from where I come from. Now you can say, I get the intensity of this law, and our educators are the most important thing, and they need to be invested in the most. They raise with the parents of the future generation. But this is a cry that makes two-thirds of Croatia empty. What's with the county schools dying out? Now imagine that someone 30, 20, 10 km sends their child, and every few days a bus burns down during transport. It's a chaotic state, and it's paid neatly. It's their safest money. Transport Sinj has now called or whatever the transport company is already called. And everyone knows all about it, and nobody does anything but the police who's taken some kind of technical inspection and something like that. They're also not the same school conditions everywhere. They're not the same in Varazdin because a public-private partnership was used. The public-private partnership is the mayor of the current Radimir Cacic, however, has now brought his secretary into the ministry, the secretary of state to pay him this public-private partnership not to pay the county. Do you get it, Minister? You have a State Secretary, which Cacic Radimir has put to you because of the several thousand votes he has received, because the public private partnership he has signed will now be paid by the state. Why isn't there a public private partnership in my Sinj, so we have a primary school, not that we have to use Franciscan school. We don't have two shifts, but you've exactly set out with Radior Cacic to take over the government's commitments he signed in Varazdin on a public private partnership and that's the tribal to pay the county which is much richer than my county where I come from. And we don't have the same conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33496	Time, time. And the violation of Mrs. Bedekovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe Article 238. Rules of Procedure. However, with all due respect to the importance of the subject of student safety, a parent who is a very, very important subject in the context of the education and education system, I believe that my colleague has hurt the Rules of Procedure. We are talking about the Inspectives Act, and certainly not the Mayor Radimir Cacic and the Public Private Partnership and similar topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33498	Thank you. Of course it was a replica, you have a warning. Here you go, sir. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33499	Yeah. Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague injured Rule 238 in which she did not deny the truth that I said that the public private partnership we are about to pay to the County of Varazdin. They got their secretary over this one hand in the Parliament and Varazdin you pay the obligation that the county should pay in a public private partnership, and in other counties it is not. And this is honest what I said. And I'm behind this so that you tend to work mainly in undeveloped areas, for example in the Carlovakia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33500	It's a reminder to you, too. Mrs. Bedekovic, you know that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33501	I know the Vice President. Thank you for giving me your word. I again believe that Article 238 was injured because my colleague is speaking beyond the subject of today's debate, which is the Inspection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33502	Unfortunately, I have to give you a warning because you've replicated each other. Let's not do that, because it takes all of our time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33503	.../Invader Bull: The truth hurts them!/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33504	What? Second warning to the gentleman, Third warning. Good-bye, Mr. Bull, third warning, and you've lost your right to a word about this point. And now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33506	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will try to be on the subject as much as possible, but I think the set of laws that we are discussing today is actually a good opportunity to discuss some other things that are related to Minister Fuchs' portfolio. First of all, I will, of course, welcome the adoption of this law. I think it's a small step, but it's a step in the right direction and every step like that should be welcomed. It's the fulfillment of one of the promises. We've been waiting a little while for that, but we can give some luft to that minister and because he's taken over the vault with the new government. It took a little stalking. But it's also late and better than ever if you ask me. Now that we've said that, I think I'd agree here with my colleagues and colleagues who said that the inspection system should be reformed and should be changed in depth. So, we heard here quoting legal provisions that I wouldn't be repeating right now, but it literally turns out that the Educational Inspection is responsible for checking the bulbs whether they work in classrooms or not. Of course, I'm a bit of a cartoon, but that's really how it works out. I think colleague Glasovac was talking about the exact number of inspectors and inspectors with the great territory they're covering. If you take into account the number of schools, i.e. institutions, higher schools and all other institutions that they cover with their supervision, you will actually come up with huge numbers and objects and institutions. And if really these colleagues and colleagues have to deal with so many applications that were often anonymous, all sorts of things. Here's a colleague talking about field trips. These were also applications that were coming, I suppose, so since it was anonymous, probably some economic operators that provided services, so they complained about the fact that school, or parents, classes decided for someone else, a tourist agency, etc. So if they have to solve a bunch of such concepts, it's actually distracting them, energy and such limited resources from what they really need to solve and the problems they need to solve, and we've heard about what it's about. So neither do I believe that every director is perfect, nor that every teacher is perfect. We're all human, we can make mistakes for different subjective and objective reasons. Nor do I believe that inspection should necessarily be a punitive institution. And that's where I would agree with my colleague Kujundzic, who spoke about the Institute of Warning, so we should think about it in the future as I would say preventive educational measures, if we can talk about the educational scale, which is that if there were a teacher, there were some things the principal could fix, especially if we were talking about directors who were fresh, so to say who had just started to consume their mandate. Let us remember that school principals are usually teachers. So someone who comes from school and who takes a while to catch up with all the ends of a whole series of things that directors need to deal with and aren't involved with the teaching process. So, out of finance, out of respect for laws, regulations, etc. And finally, I think the note is important because there are objective reasons for disrespect, let's just say that, maybe it sounds so harshly certain regulations in certain environments, which are infrastructure constraints above all. So, unfortunately, our schools are not yet equipped to follow the default pedagogical standards and simply the director can't create anything out of anything. So he's simply faced, faced with an impossible mission. In such situations, the inspection should give more luft or space to simply consider some objective factors. In my own experience, I say that especially some small schools, some district schools are thanked to God, but there are many that still need to be restored. I just can't follow all the standards we should. It is therefore necessary to take care of that too. And finally, sub-capacitation when we talk about people, colleagues and colleagues working at the Agency in an educational inspection should be taken into account as well. So, I agree that it may be arbitrary for the head of the office to decide which application he will process, but which one he does not. However, in the event that he is faced or faced with so many applications, with so many people and resources simply must some, he must make triage spoken in a medical dictionary. In any case, support for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33507	Thank you. Mrs. Voice Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33508	A colleague of Hajduković's, you have in some way advocated this system of warnings against the sentence, especially when we talk about directors, new directors, under-experienced directors. Okay, we can go that way. However, I would rather have us step up a little bit, team up the inspection so that we don't have 35 more inspectors who have to process 2,000 applications a year, have 22,000 employees and take care of 2,000 institutions, rather than a little bit of teaming up that inspection, to set it up in a way that it can carry out continuous advisory supervision in the sense of being a school service. And on the third hand to go back, it doesn't have to be a license, some way where the principals, or people who claim to be, would be able to get into business. Maybe this is the way we get into theirs, we allow them now, now we've made it possible for them to get a new moment a year ago to advance into calling counselors, but it may need to be expanded a little bit more systematically to approach the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33509	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33510	Thank you, colleague. I couldn't agree more. That's what I was going to talk about, but time is limited. It's a license, and I'm sorry we actually gave it up. Of course, we can use some other methods of whatever, call them whatever we want. But what is important is that directors must also be trained professionally, especially those who come to that place, and I said that they were usually people who were not in contact with some segments of the principal job before they took over. Also advisory surveillance is absolutely something that would be welcome. But I also think that anyone who bids for the director's post would have to have some basic competence for that place in terms of management skills. These are some of our higher education institutions and recognized, so now you have education management. But as the frames are produced, it will take a long time and simply won't be able to fill all the directorial places with these frames.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33511	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now it's Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33512	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, he's here somewhere. She's probably on the phone. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, generally when we see this legislative proposal, it's a very short bill, a brief amendment, and it really shows, above all, the determined measure of the Ministry of Science and Education that the offices of relations that are related to anonymous applications that are so far, so at least practice has shown tensions in collectives. In fact, an anonymous application is actually a application based on which anyone can file a complaint and practice has indeed shown that anonymous reports in most cases have been rejected as unfounded. However, the practice has also shown that after an anonymous application at school, there is rarely any dramatic disturbance of human relations in the chambers and somehow in this sense, although these applications are called anonymouss always or almost always after leaving the educational inspection mostly all knows who, what, what, who, what, what happened, etc. And just to avoid such and similar unwanted situations and our schools, and such a form of supervision really is necessary, and therefore I welcome the ministry's efforts to resolve this situation as much as possible because it is actually a request from most of the 50,000 teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. And of course it was also a clear sign that some articles of the law should be amended because examples of good practice simply did not confirm them as valid. And that is why these amendments to the Law in Articles 13 and 16 try to stop, above all, I would say the will of individuals, and then, of course, protect teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers who do their job in quality and responsibility. And in that sense, I see these changes as supporting indeed to all hardworking, hardworking teachers, teachers and teachers who really do their job professionally and actually see their job more as an invitation and less as a profession. What I think is important here is to say and it's been crystallized from some of the debates we've had so far. I think even colleague Hajdukovic was on that trail regarding the Educational Inspection. I would first remind myself of the fact that the very educational process itself is primarily a creative act of an individual, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, that it is a unique and unrepeated process that is autonomous by whoever creates it, performs and is a teacher, teacher, and this very teacher, teacher, the teacher, is responsible for the whole process. He's responsible for the quality of the process. And I would say that the key to the quality of this process is not just an inspection, of course, with all due respect and consideration of everything the inspection needs to do, the importance and needs of the inspection. After all, various countries have different experiences in the area. However, I would certainly not be perceiving or experiencing the inspection as a repressive apparatus. I think we should step away from that concept. I think that my colleague was somewhere on the trail, and I think that we are exactly the opposite in schools, in education institutions we need to cultivate a culture of quality and we need to take care of, therefore, the development of a whole system of quality assurance through the processes of self-evaluation or external evaluation of our educational institutions, and I mean basic and secondary schools. Therefore, the emphasis should be on ensuring quality, setting standards through which quality will be ensured and through which it will be checked and measured by independent bodies, which are primarily agencies in the system of education and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33513	Thank you. You have several replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues that I think part of the inspection job or how we're going to call it in some future should be quality assurance, but also the advisory part. So that's where we absolutely agree. And as you said, this is solving one of the problems in this sector, but it's not the only problem. And I hope that now that the minister has little time to catch the strings that we will see many more laws from this portfolio that will change the more that on the other hand we have a very constructive talker, they are teachers, teachers, teachers who propose changes themselves, and this is also one of the suggestions of them. And we need to use the fact that we have such a constructive and good talker and actually listen to them, and to change regulations and laws to make them better and to make the outcome as good as possible, means better and more favourable for the student.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33515	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33516	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very I agree, too, and I stress that our educators, that is, our teachers, teachers, professors, are highly constructive partners and very valuable potential, the most valuable potential of course with our students, and then as their parents as partners I think of parents as partners of teachers, teachers and teachers. And, of course, in any case, the whole system needs to be constantly improved both qualitatively and in a legislative sense, and I believe that in our Ministry of Science and Education, and this has already been demonstrated in our minister, we have a very good counterpart, and all of this makes one good position to improve how the legislative framework that is related to the educational and educational process at all levels from primary school to higher education and to improve the general education process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33517	Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33518	Dear colleagues Bedeković, therefore, we are looking for some ideal responsible applicant who will stand behind his application, which should actually be a son of a qua non without whom we will not act. However, if we look at the number of submissions and the number of irregular procedures that have been initiated on those submissions now, then we notice that almost 50% of them are less, which means that this anonymous notifier remains unable to act on his application unless it is in some way justified. So my question would be whether we are going to contribute to these changes in the sense that some other procedures are now being processed which are not previously or perhaps something that will contribute more to material savings, because we are not going to have this number of submissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33519	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33520	So if I understood you correctly, I'd be for that first solution and I wouldn't be able to contribute this law to some material, so save it because I just think it's pointless. According to the data, the Educational Inspectorate received more than 1500 performances in 2020. Of these, there were about 400 anonymouss, and 640 inspection controls were initiated. So these are numbers that are some kind of statistical indicator in the last year that was by far specific. However, of course time will show the effect of the change, the effect of this regulation. I simply believe that behind every application whatever the name, last name or institution is involved must stand. Anonymouss, anonymouss can be written to you by anyone at any time at any time. For me, it's one very unserious thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33521	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33522	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, here we are uniformly complex that anonymous applications should surely be lifted and thrown out of the education and education system, because they only bring disorder and anarchy to the chamber. And in order for the system to function then indeed in the Chamber must be satisfied people who will be able to go into the classroom unburdened, transfer their knowledge to the young generations, however, this is the first step of amending the law on educational inspection, should actually be an upgrade to the amendments to the law on education and education, because we only have an article 106 where in fact a convicted pedophile who served the sentence can be accepted in the system of education, and I think that such people are never the place in the system of education, and they will again initiate new conflicts and not say anonymous applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33523	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33524	Absolutely, thank you very much to your colleague on this replica, you have opened a very important topic, and I believe that this is a topic that we are all aware of, and here today's debate and about the morning debate, where we have discussed the qualification framework, today, the current topic where we are discussing inspection surveillance, will be, I want to believe and believe, just the beginning of quality legal changes to improve the education system in all its segments. The basic prerequisite for one thing, for a quality educational process, is among other things a satisfied chamber and a satisfied teacher, professor, teacher. And all those who have been convicted or who have committed crimes of any kind, including what you have spoken of is not a place in the chambers, is neither a place in schools nor a place among our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33525	Mr. Ackar. Ackar, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33526	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bedeković, for the part of your debate in which you spoke about raising a culture of quality in educational and educational institutions. I agree with you that the key is quality, that the key to quality education process is certainly not in inspections or only in inspections, but in ensuring the quality of the entire educational process. However, in your opinion, how much Croatia has done in this area to ensure the quality of the educational process so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33527	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33528	My colleague, you have now also opened a very important topic, it is difficult to answer in one minute, but I will say that, therefore, evaluation and quality assurance in the system of education are actually three pillars, three important pillars, which is primarily self-evaluation of educational institutions, then, external evaluation and ultimately evaluation of outcomes, so students and, of course, the science and technology education strategy itself provides for the establishment of a single system of quality assurance of education and education, and this system implies internal evaluation based on self-valuation of schools and external evaluation based on the prescribed standards, with relevant indicators that should be conducted by the competent agency, so in this case it would be the Agency for Education and Education. As long as Croatia has come into this, I will say, we are only in the starting positions and it is necessary to work very hard to respect the experience of the neighbouring countries of Croatia and the countries of the European Union that have gone much further on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33529	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Rade Simičević's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33530	I would like to thank the Vice President, once again distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have agreed that we should, in fact, be sure to amend Article 13, Article 16. The Law on Educational Inspection, which, by my general court, should bring at least some peace back to the chambers. So no one here has anything against educational inspection as bodies that need to do their job. I clearly even suggest that in the first time out of school, the inspection be advisory, and then, if they do not improve their relations within the community, that they should also be given strict measures. The school actually rests on good communication, on good interpersonal relations, and as such could satisfy all that the social community sets up, and that is to achieve a curricula and programme, and make our students competitive either for continuing studies and further education or going to the world of labour markets where they can again be competitive. But only a satisfied professor, a satisfied breeder can achieve those goals. Here I am supporting the minister and commending his intention to continue reforming the education and education system. This morning we had HKO, now we have an educational inspection, later we have a sports inspection, and then we should come up with a complete amendment to the Law on Education and Education, to actually define all the items and make the school competitive. We know in fact that today's system of education and education in the social community is not as recognized as it should be, and in fact, the survival of the nation depends on education and education. Without quality education and education, we can hardly achieve goals. We as a small people, a small community must invest a lot more money in the education and education system and pay clearly educational workers in the way that they should be done. There may be a difference here between educational inspection and expert pedagogical supervision, so the educational inspection determines science, i.e. illegality in the attitude of education, and professional pedagogical supervision would actually be a Suport for people who are involved in educational education in the realization of curricula and possible removal of irregularities whether it is the use of teaching methods and forms of work, technology and the monitoring and evaluation of students. And what else did I want to end? In fact, here I would like to problem the new Law on Education and Education, which was implemented by the Minister in the previous meeting, which is the admission to the working relationship of employees, i.e. teachers, professors and professors. We have 50 applications for a class education competition in elementary school and it is hardly possible to do so in a quality and good way, especially since it is the employees of the school who check out those people who compete for a particular job. This, in fact, this form of admission into a working relationship more actually refers to the academic community where usually one, two or three people appear in the competition and then it's easy to do the whole procedure. However, you if you want 50 people here in a quality, good way to test and check then you actually need 6 times as much time as it is. So my proposal would be to really end it in this way because it doesn't really make sense for people to ask employees what a union commissioner does at school or other things that aren't really the subject of those professions dealing with a system of education and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33531	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33532	My dear colleague, I'm going to refer to that part of your debate where you spoke and advocated, in fact, I'd say the institute of advisory work of inspection and where you seem somehow to me somewhere on the trail and my conclusion that the inspection should not yet be seen as a repressive apparatus. So, by repression we know each other all achieves little or almost nothing. And I agree with you that the key to the good teaching process is actually a satisfied chamber, satisfied people. However, it is not often easy to achieve this, and in the end, you are yourself, you have long-term directoral experience and you know from the practice that it is not just that. I'm interested in your opinion, therefore, which is not going to be short or easy to move away from the concept of educational inspection as a repressive apparatus, and for the perception of inspection as an advisory body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33533	Time. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33534	Thank you. Here, distinguished advocates that the system of education and education is actually the area of stimulating measures where people are raised and educated and means preventive measures certainly and educational should be at the first place both for students, weaving and for teachers. Yeah, she was created in public about the educational inspection that they're so I won't say they almost bite people when they come. So they should really have here in their work a man who is a breeder, who works and raises young generations and clearly that we are all wrong. Now the situation is good, but we can always and should strive for a better one. So I think that an educational inspection should really change your relationship and give not one chance, but two educators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33535	Thank you. The next replica of Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33536	We can continue on this trail. So everyone would sort of want to get rid of the inspections, but at least what they represent in our heads. Do you think that the actions preceding the educational inspection should be clearly defined, such as conversations with the teacher, staff or director concerned, which would lead to the conduct of an educational inspection? It means that when they receive the application, they should first refer to some earlier steps, thus perhaps avoiding their own action. At the end of the line, it's also a thrifty procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33537	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33538	Thank you, dear colleagues. Yes, I, who have been in the system for a long time, believe that directors as school headmasters, the pedagogical service of the school that should be transformed and strengthened so that they can accept that I do not say the first blow or amortize everything that happens at school. Surely one two-way communication inside the school could decide not to make a big fire. If it fails in this case, it should certainly seek support, including from inspection and from expert-pedagogical supervision, which will provide some information on how to actually solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33539	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Kresimir Ackar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33540	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed and respected fellow MPs. The educational inspection shall be carried out by inspection services in pre-school institutions, primary and secondary schools and dormitories. Other institutions and other legal persons shall be subject to the supervision of educational inspection by other institutions and other legal persons other than those of higher education or part of that activity on the basis of the approval, approval, consent or other relevant act of the Ministry. The proposal to amend the Law on Educational Inspection brings minimal but yet important changes to the work of the Educational Inspectorate. The amendments are minimal because they are only two articles of the law, and they are important because these articles are more precisely regulated by the way they are applied, irregularities in the educational institution. The key changes relate to provisions which define that a person who reports can no longer be anonymous while the third party is guaranteed the anonymity of the applicant. According to the Ministry of Science and Education, an average of 200 submissions or applications are accepted on an annual basis, and half of them are subject to inspection procedure. Some 500 solutions are issued in completed procedures, which would mean that only every 4 submissions have a basis. In addition, among the resolved submissions, each third is anonymous. Taking into account the fact that educational inspectors are required to act on each arrival and that educational inspection services in four large cities do not need to be accurately calculated to conclude that there is a significant number of time spent and financial resources on unfounded applications as already mentioned by colleagues before me. Let me share with you my own experience on this subject. I personally knew how to receive information from kindergartens and schools about often exhausting and long-term procedures, based on anonymous reports that institutions and educational workers are exposed to which valuable time is spent and which ultimately prove to be unfounded and unwarranted. These amendments to the law precisely because of the obligation to provide information on the applicant, i.e. Disposing of the anonymity of the applicant will be protected by educational inspectors as well as educational institutions against the good part of unfounded applications. From my experience of contact and communication with educational professionals, it is clear that support for these amendments of the law is particularly in the section relating to the identity of the applicant, and is also visible in the report on the consultation with the interested public and a large number of comments of 435 which, in the most part, support these amendments. The amendment refers to the guaranteed anonymity of the applicant to the third party. It is also useful and necessary because the notifier is protected against the one he reports and is informed of the basic results of the surveillance and the measures taken. It can be said that it affects the reduction of the abuse of registration while at the same time protecting a notifier who wants to present his particular problem openly. Finally, this law makes clear and precise amendments to reduce the number of unfounded applications to the Educational Inspectorate. This will directly affect the conservation of professional and financial resources both in the educational inspection services and in educational and educational institutions. The following will increase the functionality of the Educational Inspection as a Service, while kindergartens and schools and other institutions will protect against a large number of over-inspective procedures. All of this will indirectly affect the creation of a more positive and relaxed climate precisely in educational institutions, which is extremely important for adults and children. At the end of this presentation, always the very beginning when I asked a few months ago on the current morning this question always passed through my head the Latin proverb nomen est omens so be it in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33541	Thank you very much. You have several replicas, and after that we'll give you 10 minutes break for ventilation. The first replica, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although one minor change is involved, we change only one article, or two. This change is extremely important for the good functioning of schools, as well as for the inspection at the end of the day as you said. Although inspections follow the reports, they will continue to act only as they will be signed. So, will their size of work be reduced likely to, but not now so radically. But what we have actually done is we have brought peace, and I would say some kind of responsibility in human relations to the collectives themselves, which will certainly have a positive impact on human relations and on the very atmosphere in which the collective works, and then eventually we will achieve what makes this law and that is that we have the best outcomes of learning, that is, to get the best from their teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33543	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33544	Comrade Hajdukovic, I think you've just hit the core of the problem in these human relations. Someone who gives that energy and it's actually a lifesend to be a breeder, a teacher, a teacher and a teacher and that's what you've apostropheeded. And when you get one peace so that someone uninterrupted and uninterrupted can do their job that one quarter of how statistics show unfounded applications must have significantly harassed both the chamber and the staff and personally took the energy they could direct to productivity and finally be honest and in some individual process that is expected to speak to each student precisely in favour of the fact that this law is fully affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33545	Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33546	In view of all available statistics, we are inclined to make an intuitive conclusion that the fact that, in relation to the number of submissions, the number of procedures initiated and ultimately the solutions adopted is a very small number of well-founded applications. But my question will turn the saw upside down. Do you think that given the way the Educational Inspection is acting and the familiarity of the fact that it is going into the process and also its arrival and even the combing of a case at all, do you think that it is possible that one part, and perhaps an inescapable part of these procedures, is being wasteed because at the moment that the Educational Inspection takes place on stage, the entire system is resettled, the school is, say, protected by the one who is registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33547	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33548	So every time we talk about this problem and the Minister's own exposure, the question was, what about people if we go in a good direction to track down your question that might not have enough courage, enough determination to sign, and indeed there's a certain problem. Also when we talk about the crime and the victim whether everyone will side by side as you have now said and fight with this which has been declared is a very clear law here and the minister when he has said that it is very clear and explicitly defined that the procedure will be against him, according to the Law on Educational Inspection carried out to the end and, if it is justified, unfortunately, everyone can stand by his side, but the law does not know the bias, knows nothing but what is written in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33549	Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33550	Thank you, Mr Vice President, Honorable Representative Ackar, the Finnish education system is rightly shown as an example of success with positive outcomes. They decentralized that system in the 1980s and 1990s when the school inspection system actually moved to local self-government units, their accent is therefore more self-evaluation, if we look at England that has a standard office in education that kind of declares external evaluation, it's another opposition, we'll agree that both education systems are of quality. I believe that everyone would like all the inspections and education to have as little work as possible, and as you think of that shift, it means moving towards greater responsibility of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33551	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33552	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. I am absolutely and always a supporter of the fact that no one can know the problem better at national level than we who, for example, live in units of local, regional and local self-government. So, looking at that problem that you just mentioned, you can't even measure a student at an elementary school in Zagreb as a student at some elementary school in Dalmatia. Always every environment is specific, every education system and all those who are part of it have some marks that can best identify the person from that end at this point, when you're talking about the Finnish model and locating the local inspection, surely there wouldn't be a bad indicator and an example to which you should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33553	And at the end of the day, Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33554	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here, you reminded us of the number of applications, that part was founded, part was unfounded. I am very interested in your opinion, for example, concrete situations that are seen in practice that, for example, a teacher who has been reported by his parents because he has violated pedagogical measures in his court, is being reported to the Ministry and is now going to the Ministry of Health. And now there's an educational inspection, so where do you think the end is now, who's going to, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, is this registered person who's going to be, can't be forever on sick leave, or how is this educational inspection going to be able to issue a solution and, or some kind of procedure to do, given that the person is on sick leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33555	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33556	I thank my colleagues Maric for the question, therefore, defined deadlines and all that is presented before the educational inspection when he has to solve a problem like this is one set of moves that must be made to do so. The person who is registered may leave, as you have said from the workplace and may not be there, however, an educational inspection in his principles should not be enslaved by time limits, but rather by solving the problem no matter how long it takes, and if someone avoids any of his conconsequences and responsibilities, he will eventually have to face the fact and the truth, and my colleague before me was already talking about those steps, or a colleague in the replica, so that he should examine and take a series of actions himself sooner and later on, means that he would find true truth and I, believing in the institution of an educational inspection, especially because of all the laws that contribute to public opinion, the facts sought by the educational staff themselves, I believe that we will get a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33557	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Antivirus break to 17 and 10. Thank you. It's 17.03 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17:11 A.M.]] Here you go. It's all cleaned up and waiting for you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ministers with an associate, here are a few things that I think would be good to say, and in the end, I have been asked by people who are willing to say a few things about changing these two articles when it comes to educational inspection. In Croatia, we have about 40,000 teachers and teachers, if we take a total of 12 thousand applications, then it turns out that here is for each third teacher or teacher to come for one application, of which 25% of these applications are anonymous. Surely there is fear among workers who work in advocating that sooner or later you will end up and that the inspection will come and certainly disturb the entire system of education, there may be teachers and teachers who are afraid of inspection and then give in, perhaps a passing grade, and then it is reflected at the very end of the process when going to any small graduation or state prom, and it is certainly not good. Mr. Dretar here a little while when we started this point he started a topic that I might be talking about for a little while longer, or as long as time allows. However, it is necessary to reduce anonymous applications to educational workers and to know who they are reporting and what they are reporting for. But we have one problem that can come up and will certainly come up, and that is that someone reports to a teacher or a teacher and does it according to how the law requires and changes to the law but also sends it to the media and the media, of course, before the educational inspection has even entered that school, made a survey, that teacher, teacher, teacher, to go out in the daily, local, any newspaper, of course under the sign of the questionnaire, and then it is established that this teacher, teacher or teacher did not break absolutely the Law, the inspection says that everything is fine, but the process of washing that teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher is more absolutely impossible. I believe that if such things happen, that such a teacher, teacher or teacher should have the right to know who sued him, which he sued him for, that he would not, of course, initiate proceedings against him and prove his innocence, not only through the institution of the school, but through the Law itself. I think it's one of the topics that here's been faced by teachers from my home school, from where I come from, and I think it might be something to discuss, but let's be honest, once you've been called into the paper, you can then show a hundred court or inspection findings that make you innocent, just that bitterness you'll be carrying your whole life, and I think that's why it significantly reduces the effectiveness of such a teacher, teacher or teacher. Therefore, surely these two articles should be changed, perhaps I say, to see in this part that it is still a little bit of work and that there is this possibility, anonymous applications are something that is absolutely not what we should be complaining about. Anyone who thinks someone committed a crime should sign it with their name, last name, evidence, and then it's only right. I don't know about the subject so much, but here they asked me to say a few words, so here's just maybe, out loud here I'm asking you, of course there's a minister, maybe there's a way that this thing that I've been talking about might be included in these two articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33560	Thank you, too. You have one replica. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33561	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague, you've put this issue out in the media before it's proven guilty. It should certainly be calculated that the media should still be guided by some kind of ethics and presumption of innocence that is not only true for political circles, but also for ordinary citizens. Not only that, if they already decide to publish someone, then we should listen to the other side anyway, and I totally agree that once you go out in the papers, on the front page, it's hard to wash away from any meal, especially if it's proven that they're unfounded. So more ethics for everyone, I think you'll agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33562	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33563	Absolutely, I have nothing to add, but with us, I would not say that it is just a practice in Croatia, there is probably still that. A few days ago, we were discussing the Law on Electronic Media, which is also trying in some way to contain these things. Of course that's not working, I'm not on the side of those who ask to show any side that's in the process, but it would be really good for the inspection to first perform its surveillance, to determine the facts, to publish its final solutions, and then after that they can eventually write about it and the newspaper and all those who are interested in some of the failures that may have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33564	And another replica, Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33565	Thank you very much, dearly respected colleague, from your presentation, it seems to me that you have well analyzed this situation with numbers where you say that, in fact, when that is calculated a little bit, you calculate that every fourth teacher, teacher, actually gets registered in this current situation and that the anonymous ones have actually taken a swing. And that's why, of course, there's a teacher's fear, and it's a good thing we're changing this law. However, I would like to refer to this second part of your discussion where you spoke about the press release. So, before the inspection determines the actual state of affairs, of course, I agree with you that this is something that first of all disrupts the teacher's reputation, puts a stigma on him and on teachers and teachers and then, on the other hand, creates a kind of deviation in a system that is not good in a way that sensationalist approaches to events in education and education And, of course, that's where it's supposed to end. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33566	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33567	Thank you very much. In the wake of what Commissioner Maric said, I come from a small community. There the teacher is still respected, and the teacher is something that has its own reputations in that place. Today it's not just the media, it's social networks that can publish anything at the same time. All the people who know each other in this place are some Facebook or some other friends, and it's certainly something that can significantly disrupt part of the facility's functioning. And it's this information that not all teachers deal equally with stress when they're reported by someone, and it's mostly people with whom they sit together in a classroom or somewhere else, and they certainly don't deal equally. Some give in under that pressure, give in to a student or parents, and then we have what we have in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33568	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mrs. Maria Selak-Raspadic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33569	My colleagues and fellow MPs have already been told most of this in previous discussions, so I will in some ways also sum up, and perhaps point to some things that were not so much of an emphasis. I'm going to start with one principle problem, which is the fact that the law last changed in 1.1.2020. So, it's been a year. We keep getting into a situation where every little bit we build up the laws. Didn't this anonymity thing happen a year ago or whether the situation really changed so much in the last year that we had to intervene in the law like this? This is a serious question because it devises the work of parliamentary deputies. It's about building up and doubling jobs and actually losing confidence in institutions. As far as these two changes are concerned, which should help us to have more quality applications, or something that should actually be an assumption of entering any procedure, which is the fact that by our name and last name, we guarantee our own person for what we write. Of course, it is welcome to change the way in which we expect a person to be behind his submission. However, several other questions are also raised about the law itself in general, as well as about things that change within these changes and additions. The first is the lack of control. So here I deliberately took a report from the independent inspection sector for 2019, which was the last under quotes of a normal year, and here we see that from 3502 submissions opened in 2011 of non-administrative cases, 922 inspections were launched and we finally came to 482 solutions. So we see a large number of declines in procedures. It is open to the question of whether there is a decline because the reports are unfair or because there are certain labour deficiencies, with regard to inspection supervision. I would remind myself here that those provisions governing the manner in which the inspection must act on which the conclusions are made are not at all as unambiguous as might be assumed and allow for some arbitration. For example, are students burdened with teaching and other forms of direct educational work in accordance with the law and other regulations and norms? If a process is implemented to store and reward pupils and to highlight pedagogical measures in accordance with the law and other regulations, and the statute or general act. If the obligation to monitor the work and progress of students is fulfilled, etc. Many of these provisions have already become unnecessary by introducing an e-data. And then you have very general provisions such as whether or not the Director meets his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her duties. So this opens up a space for the possible arbitral conduct of inspection supervision, which then opens up the question of how we come up with such a small number of applications. Moreover, what is not to be touched by Article 12 of this Act, which does not refer to Article 13, and of course who should decide to initiate the inspection procedure. Can this be delegated, empowering someone else to decide independently for a specific territorial area to launch inspection controls. And if such things are possible, and we haven't changed these changes, we may remember again in a year, then we have again the question of whether by law we have determined on the basis of this clear reason to initiate the procedure, or whether or not we leave it at the will of some head of an individual institution, or an individual area that has inspection control over that area to decide whether or not it has to run something. You should also see what to do with the spirit of time, especially in view of the current epidemiological situation. It was an important question whether we had an increase and whether there were even reports of e-Student inspection. So what do you do with what is currently going on, how does it subject to inspection supervision, and what will be the outcome of this year that has changed us greatly in this educational sense? The legislative framework we currently have in mind does not provide an opportunity for such thinking. I will conclude that it certainly needs to help teachers and teachers to keep their work under review in a way that does not stychically affect someone’s mind, but is well founded but that other mechanisms that will do so need to be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33570	You don't have a replica, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Rade Simičević's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33571	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I trust the Ministers that you are already as long as you are here, but I hope you have heard something that could possibly shed light on your future intentions to amend the legislative frameworks. Yes, an educational inspection, anonymous, it should not be taken into consideration by the fact that anonymous application creates a mess in the chamber, and the chamber should actually be a place of atmosphere, a place where students will be discussed, where new skills and knowledge will be discussed, where in fact primarily through methods and forms of work the simplest and fastest to the outcome of learning. And the very amendment of Articles 13 and 16 certainly be optimism, and in fact your intention, Mr. Minister, to deal with certain other problems that exist in the system of education and education, which is actually the basis of every nation's survival. An educated man, who knows his language that respects his language, can survive, those who lose themselves in the internationalization of all existing ones certainly do not have a future and therefore I support you in all the intentions that you do for the well-being of students and employees at school. I'm glad you didn't also accept the unspeakable on line teaching and that in this difficult crisis you've actually forced teaching in person, because only that teaching can actually give those results and achieve those goals set in front of students. So, for the end, anonymous application can only bring disorder to the collective, cannot result in good findings, but we must do everything to strengthen the role of the teacher's council and the principal as the school's pedagogical head, the professional service to strengthen the school's ethical code, where indeed all those laws that have been prescribed and respected and applied to the work. The goal is to learn, to acquire new knowledge, and we must do everything with the goal of achieving it, to keep the student at the heart of the education system. I am glad that this has also been adopted because of those people who have already shown dissatisfaction and I believe that work at school will improve themselves, and that communication will develop among stakeholders of the educational process in a way that, if there is a particular problem, it will then be solved in a healthy two-way communication, and there will be no way that people sitting at the same table will report people for something, after all, anonymous applications have been rejected in most cases and as such a man who has reported to his colleague, he goes to class and raises and educates young people. So, at school, we need professional, moral people who really will satisfy the moment that we are in, and I commend all those hardworking people who do it well and quality, and you support all the future steps you are doing at the Ministry and I believe you have both strength, energy and knowledge that you will make this system even better. He is good, but you and your associates can certainly make him even better at the satisfaction of all stakeholders of the education system, and clearly the social community who is alive interested in making the system work in a quality and good way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33572	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mrs Marijana Puljak, who will speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33573	I thank the chairman. Here, as more or less said, I will just once again say that this Law is a step forward, so in solving the anonymous applications of teachers and that here we should all work together more and as a society and all institutions, the Ministry, to really restore the reputation of our teachers and teachers, because, as we said, education, science and education are the foundation of every modern society, and in this, the greatest role is played by teachers and teachers. The second reading should, therefore, clarify this part of the explanation in which the term ‘unknown notifier’ appears again, i.e. the applicant of the performances, so that we are truly certain that the inspection really is due, whether it is really not obliged to act on an anonymous application or is left for the assessment of the inspection. Regardless of the outcome and the outcome of the application, we believe that the teacher should be given some kind of satisfaction, at least in the form of an apology if the application is shown to be unfounded. Everyone who works at school knows how a teacher feels humiliated, regardless of the outcome of the application itself. I mentioned the directors earlier in the speech, so often the directors also experience the presence of the inspection in person, because except that when the inspection comes to school, except for the examination of the teacher's work, the work of the principal is very often checked, so after the inspection, here they tell us, that then the principal sort of bites the teacher for which the inspection came, and then the teacher feels double-punished. It should also be made clear that if there was no basis for applying, then it should be recorded in the teacher’s personal record at school. So it doesn't say there were reports, if that application had no basis. Once again, I will point out that the educational inspection must work better, faster and more consciously when teachers report the work of directors. The key to reform, apart from being a good teacher, a good teacher, is certainly a good director, behind a good director stands a good collective and ultimately what is most important, a student and a quality education. I'm going to take this opportunity here, and I'm going to say one more topic, which is to ask the question, which is to license the director. With this already tried several times, the last attempt was in 2016, or then Minister Barisic delayed it until 2021, here we are now in the 21st year, so nothing has changed. In the very process of professionalising the role of directors, moving away from, I would say, more political parties, licensing is seen as one way to solve this problem, so that the director is chosen not by some political key, but by expertise and his qualifications, experience and knowledge. Therefore, a license should be served, served if it were to separate the director by quality, so it is only necessary to have a good political basis. You can sit in the principal’s chair after several mandates, because the number of mandates is not limited, unlike the other holders of educational activities, school directors and other educational institutions are left in the education system as a function, not as a qualification. Here is one question, so here we are, supporting this Law and supporting everything that goes towards strengthening the role of teachers and teachers in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33574	Mrs. Maria Selak-Raspudic. Finally on behalf of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33575	My colleagues and colleagues, a few more concrete open questions on the basis of these proposals of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection. First, it refers to Article 1 and to the question of whether the identity of the applicant will be checked prior to the initiation of the procedure, therefore, except that it is conditional upon the name and last name, address, etc., whether it will immediately engage in communication with the particular person who has reported or will only look at the quality of the application, allowing again some anonymity on the trace of false profiles, which is a popular way of handling today. The second question concerns Article 2. So, here it undertakes to keep a secret, to act so as not to compromise the law or other regulation established the secret of the person who reported it, so in this part that is not anonymous to the inspector. However, there is no regulation on what the consequences are, if that secret leaks, because also on the trail of what counterpart Bedekovic said, we do have a situation today in practice that when an inspection comes everyone knows very well what it is, who it is addressed to, and who it is assumed is who it is. So, if such data is to leak, should the law, not some sublegal acts, directly formulate and how those who respond to it be penalized? So much for this part. Since we are able to discuss the relationship of anonymity within the education system here, I would take advantage of these few minutes to warn about the problem of anonymity and its consequences and high education, and in fact, I would like to make an inquiry as to whether we can change something on this lead. In higher education, we are witnessing that anonymous surveys by students determine the possibility of our scientific, or scientific and educational advancement. These polls are completely anonymous, so students don't reveal their identity, of course not just a professor, he shouldn't even know it, nor reveal it to anyone who's going to conduct the procedure, under quotes, to the inspector. This brings, comes to some asymmetry, certain asymmetry actually in the education system, where the professor is behind his name and last name, while a student who is a minor can trace some anonymity completely, without any consequences, and even without some fundamental responsibility decide on the fate of that same professor. Asymmetry consists of us starting from some zero position that is not zero for both sides involved. This position assumes a good student and a bad professor, therefore, a good student because we believe that, even if he did so anonymously, he would give his best, professional and objective opinion on the professor's work, and a bad professor because we think that he who criticises that professor will in no way have to commit, or by his own name and last name, at least in this second part, to give the same criticism to that professor. Personally, I have good experience with student polls in terms of the grades I have received, so this is in no way personally motivated, however, which is also a large part of these surveys, and which is why this issue of anonymity that we are talking about here is about the education system to the level of high school, and I am raising it here and to the question of higher education and its functioning, except that it has concrete consequences for the teacher himself visiblely and in how we get these surveys back, that indeed this anonymity that allows students to make extensive use of by students, so that they give different comments, which have nothing to do with the education provided by individual teachers, concerns his style of dress, feelings, I don't know, the emotional state of students and the various other comments that students think that at that point they can put within something that is serious document and which is later required as proof of the quality teaching programme of a particular scientist and his choice will be further. So, we really need to think about what place of anonymity in the system, how it affects the work of educational and educational staff, but if we have considered here at the level of pre-school, primary and secondary education, we should also consider the next time of higher education, especially because this anonymity is taken into account, there are concrete consequences for the teaching progress of professors working at the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33576	And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Science and Education, Mr Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs, very briefly, thank you for this very constructive discussion. We have re-recorded, noted very interesting views and will surely try to apply them as best as possible in writing a new Law on Educational Inspection, which I have announced will follow up after some other legal acts and laws are passed that regulate primary and secondary education. This amendment and these two articles go first and foremost to teachers and to those at school who have been fairly often exposed to anonymous reports of whom the educational inspection has acted, and in many cases such reports have not been justified. When we talk about why we have not banned a complete anonymous application, it is because in principle it cannot be banned, because you cannot forbid anyone to file a criminal complaint against someone at a school where other authorities will then act, and I also think it would be wrong to completely exclude the possibility of an anonymous application, if you consider the existence of a situation where someone can report for sexual harassment or fornication, and certainly that such an anonymous application would be considered by an inspection. Inspection, we said, there are not enough people, that is why we are thinking of dividing Zagreb into two offices. Zagreb 1 and Zagreb 2, because there are many schools and few inspectors. When we talk about data protection, it was one of the questions of its own time, if any information is leaked which has been reported, in the form in which there must be an address and a name that is verifiable, then the inspection will check whether there is indeed a person who has reported it, however, and in which case we have strengthened the category of official secrets, and the category of official secrets is protected and regulated by other laws, therefore, if there is, let's say, let's say, in such a literary manner, to the leak of data, in which case the other authorities that are being examined and that official is subject to certain sanctions, therefore, I think that these amendments, I suggest, we will somehow return the dignity of teachers, and here to a colleague, or respected representative Selak, to answer immediately, that the issue of supervision of the action within the higher education system is a very important thing, but nevertheless, back to that category of autonomy, it should be regulated in the context of the law that does not fall in the same way. Here, thank you very much for your discussions and I'm glad we heard today's support for the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33578	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Next is bill number 79. So - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection, First Reading, P.Z. No. 79; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So it's about first reading and the provisions relating to first reading apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. With us is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Mr Tomislav Družak, will you introduce us to the basic characteristics of this Law? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33581	I thank the Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, in the opening part, actually introduce us all together in the Proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection. So, the Law on Sports Inspection, which we present today and which is the subject of today's debate within the framework of the first reading, is an order, a description of jobs, ways and methods of work, rights, duties and powers of the employees of the sport inspection. Since sports inspectors working within the framework of sports inspection are overseeing the application and implementation of the Law on Sports, and the basis of this legislation with the purpose and aim of ensuring the legal functioning of the sport system in the Republic of Croatia, it is also necessary to provide a legal basis for its uniform, efficient and rapid treatment. Let me explain briefly why we are now proposing this Law on Amendments and additions to the law on sports inspection. The national reform programme for 2019 identified measures 144, decentralisation and rationalisation as part of the reform project. The following reform measures have been adopted by the State Administration System Act in which the transitional and final provisions or, more specifically, in Article 67 of that Law are laid down to provide for the Administration of State Administrations in County, established under the State Administration System Act, to continue to work until specific laws enter into force which, depending on the administrative area, will be entrusted to the County Office, with the exception of administrative and inspection tasks, as well as the supervision of the legality of the implementation of general acts and which will be placed in the jurisdiction of the Authority of the State Administration. In accordance with that Law amending the Law on Sport Inspection, which entered into force in 1.1.2020 in the first degree of inspection, which until then were in the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration in County, or in the City Control Office of the City of Zagreb, were placed in the jurisdiction of the authorities of the State Administration in charge of sport, i.e. at the time of the Central State Sport Office. The law, as you know, was adopted in an emergency procedure because of the need to comply with the new Law on the System of State Administration, and could not be intervened in other provisions of that Law, which were necessary for the purpose of the new establishment of a sports inspection. Since the conduct of sports inspectors in the offices of the state administration and the city control office of the City of Zagreb at certain stages of the procedure was different from that of the state sports inspectors of the Central State Sport Office, who, in the meantime, ceased to work, the date of entry into force of the Law on the establishment and the part of the body of the state administration, whose activities from its department were taken over by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, in accordance with the structure and the part-line of the prescribed law, required provisions of the Law on Sport Inspection, on the basis of which different decisions on the same administrative matters could be specified and clearly defined in order to ensure, as I have already said, uniform treatment of sports inspections. The proposed legal decisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection are detailed in the completion of the inspection procedure, a shorter procedure has been laid down, a shorter deadline for the issue of a solution, a obligation to comply with individual acts, a legal person from the system of sport with general acts and the Law on Sports, and a ban on the pursuit of sporting activities, a legal or physical person from a sport system not registered in the Register of Sports Activities. The provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport Inspection, which relate to the initiation of the infringement procedure, have also been compliant with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Courts and Laws on the Areas and Seas of Courts, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, which extends the actual jurisdiction of municipal courts and criminal trials, and the merger of municipal and criminal courts in the Republic of Croatia has been carried out. As regards this proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport Inspection, no disagreements have been identified through the previous debate, nor are the essential issues that should be further agreed on, and we believe that it is another step in improving the system of sports. Finally, I would like to stress that the new Sport Act is under way, whose adoption is foreseen through the draft legislative activities of the Government of Croatia in the last quarter of this year. In order to create legal conditions for the implementation of all the objectives and measures envisaged by the National Programme of Sports, adopted in 2019, with a deadline of 2019-2026. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33582	You have several replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33583	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. Sports inspection has its own part-time jobs defined under the Law of Sports, or the sport inspection itself. I wonder if you can tell us which laws, or regulations, are the most broken when a sports inspection comes into the control of clubs, whether they are, I don't know, medical examinations, registrations in the Register, financial components or what. Here's if you can sort it out for us a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33584	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33585	So, we have one precise analysis of all the activities, i.e. all the revealed non-compliance of the employees working in the sport system, i.e. the bodies working in the sport system with the Sport Act and other acts that regulate it, is mostly the non-compliance of the Statute with the Sport Act, so there have been a lot of failures, there has been a lot of sport inspection revealed a lot of illogicalness, so there have been questions about the implementation of elections in certain sports associations, this is often an objection. There were objections, of course, and use, that is, the use of their activities as sports coaches who had no legal basis for the implementation, the behaviour of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33586	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33587	Dear colleague. Unlike the educational inspection, which we can read about in the reports of the Ministry of Science, we know nothing about sports inspection reports. Why are sports inspection reports not publicly available? After I searched the entire Internet, I tried to reach authorized services, it's about a state office, to get a report of sports inspection for the past year or for any period, because it's the only document on which we can discuss what's good in the law and what we have to fix. However, I did not receive that report, and I do not think that it should be specifically sought, I think as well as for all other bodies that are state-owned that it should be publicly available. Why isn't that the case?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33588	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33589	As I said, so the system of sports inspection was set up this way in 1.1.2020. We have followed and implemented and followed the realisation of the work of the state administration in the county, therefore we are going into this change to coordinate simple actions because sports inspectors in county offices, sports inspectors or state inspectors at the level of the central state sports office were acting in another way. We have finished reports, I think it'll be for this last year. for 2020, during some 10-15 days, this report and published on our website will therefore be made available to everyone absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33590	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33591	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we have received a very, very strict explanation or assessment of the current situation and of what is changed by this law. So I can see all these elements and the rest of me care about one other thing at all. How many sports inspectors are there in Croatia, how many of them did you have in the office, the central office, and how many of them did you have at the county level, so now you've taken them over? In that I mention that there was a major reform of the great state inspector there the sports inspectors remained outside, below, outside, and how much surveillance do they work annually? Are these surveillances, are there any surveillance plans or are there any reports? How do sports inspectors work in the field anyway? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33592	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33593	So, as for the very number of sports inspectors in the Central State Sport Office as state sports inspectors, they were letters and numbers employed by 3 persons, meaning 3 state inspectors while a total of 20 together means sports inspectors at this point 23. Unfortunately, a number of sports inspectors who were in the county offices were more likely to work in those county offices than they had moved into the sports inspection system since 1.1. And we have a problem right now with the number of sports inspectors because when we look at on one side the number of sports associations and legal persons in the system of sports that need to be controlled, and on the other hand when we look at the number of sports inspectors, then it really sets it up, one big problem arises. Of course we're working on an annual plan. sports inspections, but we also do excellent work on ad hoc applications and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] by ad hoc cases that come to us as an object for processing. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33594	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State when the Law on Sports Inspection was passed in 2012 then it was pompously announced that it was USKOK for sport, somehow it was not possible to resist the impression that at that time the sports inspection was supposed to serve the administration at the time for certain political calculations, we saw that one great nothing had happened. I think we should work on an affirmation of sports inspection. These are the people who need to have the Sports Act in their little fingers and I think that through this period, I believe there will be further shifts in the improvement of sports inspection. I think that, in this period since the Law on Sports Inspection was passed, you can see progress that offers better quality of sport and better conditions for both sports workers and athletes themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33596	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33597	I appreciate the question. So, as far as sports inspectors are concerned, I must say with pride that sports inspectors, sports inspectors, are absolutely independent in their work, so neither their first superior has the right nor insight throughout the process until the final solution itself, and they are definitely working on their own. As you have said, the pompous announcement, unfortunately, did not give birth to any of the initial intentions and wishes and plans that were then presented to all the Croatian public. Sports inspectors like I said work on their own and they worked on their own and they couldn't work on their own and couldn't function on any policy, no dictatorship, and they won't be in the future in that function, but will work solely on the law or on the conscience of how, which requires simply the Sport Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33598	And finally Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33599	Thank you very much. State Secretary for Sports, sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia are usually in trouble now, mostly, this coronary crisis where certain sports can be held, some can't, so confusion is mostly young people who are involved in sports, younger categories. Sport should seek health and a positive example of life and of course behavior, socialization. However, with this law, elements should be found in how to sanction those in the solemn vines that toast with champagne, and when the judicial authorities are persecuted, they go to another BiH state, while fans who follow it and athletes for drinking a beer are treated as the biggest criminal. I understand the intensity of this law, but your explanation and attitude towards sports and clubs in Croatia today is absolutely unfair and of course contradictory.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33600	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33601	I appreciate the question, but unfortunately you would disagree with this finding. If anyone cares, and it is also publicly and clearly shown to this government that they care very much about sports, sports clubs that actually form the basis of sport. This proved and proved this, last year, in the spring and summer when the lock came down and the closure of the entire system of life in Croatia, and therefore sport, where the government found funds that with more than 40 million kuna directly intervened in the system of sports and those who really do and carry that sport in the Republic. So I think it's actually that way, and here and now the measures we're taking, which are being implemented by this government in preserving jobs in the system of sports, are also one proof that the government cares very much about sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33602	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We move on to the debate, first I open the debate, first by clubs, first Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas is on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, of course, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33603	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, so before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection is relatively short, and I would say relatively simple. But let us when we have such a law that it certainly requires both a lot and a lot of questions and a lot of answers. Sports rarely and the theme of sport rarely comes to this assembly and I must admit that I am especially looking forward to what you announced that in the last quarter of this year we will have the Sport Act because it is certainly important that we have it and with it we can define some things. What I had to admit, and that's what I asked you and it would have been better if we had gotten some more meat in this explanation, as much as you have an inspector, which is the problem, which is one of the major reforms that was carried out in the former assembly, or the former old government was the creation of a major state inspectorate. Then this inspection, therefore, and now we see that there are some inspections that have not entered that state inspectorate. It is always a big question whether they did not enter because they were forgotten or not, because it was such a thought that these inspections should not be but should be directly related to the variant or option of the competent ministry. I must confess to me especially glad that sport has won its own ministry. So the importance of sports from the earliest age of life is extremely important. The state thus also sends some messages to the state-run policy. Now something small about this law. In your explanation, you say that it was a different practice and that the laws needed to be further defined because they were making different decisions on the same administrative matters. I must admit that this personally confuses me because we have the General Administrative Procedure Act, this ZUP, or legislation, is the same and must be applied by all. So it could have been regulated through surveillance and through other things, so what was seen was clearly noticed that when inspectors were at the level of local and local, they were regional and local that they made different decisions and that you are now solving these things. I think it's simpler now and solve it because all the inspectors of your inspectors are your inspectors to say so, so you don't have any relationship anymore to delegate the job, so he goes away, so he doesn't go away because they're very interesting that you've changed the norms within which time they need to bring a solution, because apparently the inspector was, he found something, he wrote some record and went back in history, into the historical layers of some drawers and never came to an end. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because every time it comes to any inspection, we always experience the inspection as someone who comes and punishes me, I've never experienced it, and I'll never experience the inspection. I experience the inspection that those, among other things, must have great knowledge, that they must have great experience and that in their own when it comes to supervision for the first time he must have counseling or that those whom he comes to ask him questions and have a series of dilemmas. So now you have one situation that's in sports almost everyone, I'm talking about not clubs talking about alliances. All your sports alliances have in their statutes, which are old, one provision that speaks about it, and I can say that I have some experience because I was at the head of an alliance and then I know what the statute means, which means the assembly, which means everything else, which means that you can very hard change the statutes because you can change the statutes at the assembly and you always have a lot more against than for, but these are other topics for some other conversation. So they have that election assembly for the new leadership alliance are working in the year in which the Olympics are held. The year in which the Olympics was held, there was no Olympics, and the electoral assembly you can't do because according to the interpretation you can't do it in fact when it comes to political bodies, but not when it comes to these associations, it's not, because of the epidemiological measures, they're not, they can't do it physically, and now there's actually no election assemblies, the old leadership that was, therefore, managed to continue to manage it because it's both interpretations and everything else, because the statute, no extraordinary circumstances have been foreseen under the statutes. So no one could have predicted it, so that's where they're in some kind of trouble. And it would be very good if there were, say, an instruction from the ministry along with the inspectors what to do, either that or because this year there will be an Olympics which is extraordinary, and they have their statutes related to the year of the Olympics to make it all go away together. So, what I'm saying is, you went here to solve some of the things that you've obviously had problems with, that someone who does their job has to do it all the way. So when the inspector comes out, writes the record, the result of his record is to make some kind of a solution in some way because you're actually saying that to these amendments to the law, do the job to the end. But what should really take care of, which is about the new Sport Act. So, let's all see that top-of-the-line sport and buy it there so I don't say new TVs and sit in front of the screen when it's good. But in order for it to be good, to be a top-of-the-line sport, there should be a lot of work, a lot of energy from all sports employees who are now at the crown time very hard to do. You couldn't work with the kids, the kids were squatting at home, so you got into the situation and the coaches who had different educations because they got different educations based on different schools, some of them ended up a college that was called DIF in my day, and now KIF, some of them ended up some courses that were by the side, so you have different educations, and I have to admit that I commend that the idea that all those sports workers who were sitting at home couldn't do their job at all that was compensated, but what we're sure to see as a consequence of this story crown is certainly children who were squatting at home, who couldn't work, so they couldn't even be in those basics, they didn't have any physical education, let alone what else. I must admit that, on several occasions, I have asked Minister Beros, who was the resolution minister on the subject of the crown for individual sports, I have never understood and will not be made clear to me. So it's defined that sports depending on the category, you have some sports where even good athletes can't come into the category at all because the categories are so set and they were, so the relationship when you have someone who doesn't know how to throw a spear or so it's just the attitude of an athlete and coach even at the level of high school, if he wasn't categorized he couldn't deal with it, but that's just a reduction of epidemiological measures or removed. But there's one thing I'm asking you to take special care of, and that's landing. This is our year of the Tokyo Olympics. Some athletes will go to Tokyo much earlier because there will already be pre-Olympic competitions. We now have a situation to see that various people have been vaccinated under various conditions. You must now organise the vaccination of athletes, the vaccination of sports workers, because the worst that we have, therefore, for the ultimate sport that anyone at all, even team sports not to say individually get the opportunity to go to the Olympic games are invested millions, over the years millions are invested, making money to the family, which their money, which municipalities, cities, so they must not only come to the Olympic games, first.../incomprehensible/... possible they cannot happen to them, it must not happen to us that a athlete comes to the Olympic games with a crown or Covid-19, not even his coach, and not that team that was all preparing for the Olympic games that were supposed to be right last year is known who goes to Tokyo. We have the Olympics, so we know who are going, the last contests, the last elections are being held at this time. In some individual sports, it will really overlap, but get organized. We see now also about the president of the HGK, not to mention the rector, that there is a possibility of such and such vaccination, organize the vaccination of the ministry. We now have the Ministry of Sports, athletes have their own ministry, arrange to sit down with the headquarters and organise vaccination of athletes, athletes and those alliances that are aware of their Olympics are going to pray at the county level and write letters, vaccinate me Olympics it must not be individually, it must be organised. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33604	Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, he's gone, he's losing his right. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Ms. Marija Selak Rasdic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33605	My colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, were introduced to what I asked as a question. So let us who have just begun our work in the assembly and who have taken our role as legislator very seriously, who was surprised at what speed laws are being passed, and even more at the rate of changing that we still think we should do this job responsibly and that the first question that I asked myself as a parliamentary representative was when I had to prepare a speech on changes and additions to the Law on Sport Inspection, the question of how sports inspection is doing, what are its powers, what can we find in the Law on Sports Inspection, but how are these powers applied on the ground, what were more, what were the actions were less, and then what in the legislative framework can we do, what can we change to facilitate the work of sports inspection? I didn't get those questions answered because there were no reports for the previous year. I couldn't even get it on official request. The report should be made publicly available, and here if it really is available as promised, I would visit that it should have been made available before we discuss any amendments and additions to this law because I am really interested in what arguments remain to be made to this debate if they do not have all the information they need to give any excess contribution to what kind of legislative framework we need. We can, as it is obvious, often practice in the assembly to pretend that we have some discussion. That substantial contribution here I think will not be enough, but I remind you it is not our fault it is the guilt of those who have not given us insight into the report or if we have no insight into the report at least then, in this introduction, explain in more detail the situation in the field with sports inspection so that we can participate in the debate on these provisions of the law. The second question concerning the process of thinking about concrete proposed amendments and additions concerns the ambiguities present in the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated by law, and the consequences to be met by the law. Let this part be somewhat dry, but this is our job, our job is far from a political stage that comes down to two, three resourceful jumps ahead of the Bashchan board that later powers the media. Our work is boring to the general public, perhaps uninteresting, the job of a legislator who follows certain legal acts and believes that they should be clearly defined so that citizens in the case of a sports association can act by law. Thus, it is said here that the conduct of sports inspectors in the offices of the state administration in the county and the City Control Office of the City of Zagreb at certain stages of the procedure was different from that of state sports inspectors of the Central State Sport Office who stopped working, etc. In exactly what stages was it different? How was it different? What has led to this distinction in practice? Obviously, the distinction will not be repeated in the future, so let's change this legislative framework. But what are the consequences of this distinction for what the inspectors had previously brought as their own findings? Do these differences affect which we here know nothing about the very documents they have brought and the penalties they have prescribed? These are all very important questions to which we should get an answer so that we can discuss these amendments and amendments to the law. Next, I'd like to look back on the article. Article 8 9. which regulates and transfers here from the previous law only changes a few things further, the penalty payment of the financial amount determined for the violation of the natural person that is separated here from the legal person and that is the newspaper from 10,000 to 50,000 kuna and then is further prescribed in which cases the sentence is found. Here it is only physically separated from the legal person but I think it should be done to define it more clearly because it is a large financial range and in which cases the penalty is granted, not to be some autonomous sport inspector's procedure, because unlike that great and well-known sport that we all think about when we talk about sports inspection, a large amount of sport takes place in smaller associations to which it represents a large, almost insurmountable expenditure if there is a certain irregularity in their behaviour. I must admit that it is also a very weak echo of public debate, so unlike more than 400 proposals, the comments we have on the amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection, when we talk about sports inspection, we have only received one single comment. What's the problem? Why do all sports associations and all others and legal and physical actors involved in sports feel that it is important or not addressed to them or are not sufficiently involved or informed of their participation and contribute to such public consultation when laws are passed that determine not only their conduct in accordance with the law but also the pensionisation which is the most problematic part of them and which concerns the verification of the legal conduct and the manner in which they run their associations? It is this one single comment tabled on this law that concerns the issue of minor irregularities in the conduct of sports activities, in order to enable some kind of a reminder that would come before the imposition of too much fines, which is a key problem for smaller sports associations. However, I am not concerned with the question which is justified and the only one that has come as a public consultation on this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Sports Inspection, but I am concerned about the answer that is given, that is, the reason for that question. The reason is the following: ‘The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Sport Inspection are not explicitly covered by cases of minor irregularities in the conduct of sporting activities, however, in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, the inspector may, in the case of identified irregularities, order the removal of deficiencies and irregularities within a certain period and may also carry out control inspections to determine whether the obligation has been fulfilled from the solution.’ The legislative framework should be there to make clear what inspectors are allowed to do, and not to leave it, we have heard here that they have autonomy about action. Their autonomy is really important in the sense that they cannot be affected, especially if we have in mind how much money in professional sport is being turned around, but the autonomy of conduct does not mean independence in selecting the criteria to be followed in order to produce a certain inspection report. These are things that need to be clearly defined. And finally, perhaps the sport inspection did not become a new BREAK but its action and all that it did has great importance for the analysis of the way in which the sport is handled and to question and conduct surveillance over some sports entities that do not comply with the law. In this sense, sports inspection may be the only tool we have left to correct some of the wrong drins that we all know are very much present in sports, especially in professional sports in that sport where big money turns. Unlike this sport, in which sports inspection needs to enhance its visibility in this legislative framework, it needs to oust financial pensionation in view of the fact that not all sports associations, associations that have so much money at their disposal and find a way to meet them too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33606	Thank you. Now it is the SDP and Mrs. Andreja Maric's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of HS, whose member I am in this sense and in charge, discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection. The representative of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports further explained the need for the adoption of this law, stating that it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the amendments to the Law on the structure and the detachment of the body of the state administration, the Law on Courts and Laws and Areas and Courts. We are also told that it is necessary to avoid the possibility of making different decisions in the same administrative matters to clearly define and specify in order to ensure uniform treatment of sports inspectors throughout the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the SDP club will not be against that technical part. It was also announced on the committee that legislative activities for the 4th quarter of this year are based on the adoption of a new Sport Act which will then need to be harmonised by this law and these amendments are necessary now to avoid the unequal practice of sports inspectors. Given the scrupulousness of the changes in this material that we have received, it is good to read the previous draft law amending the Law on Sport Inspection of 2019 to fully understand the changes in the current bill. to make it easier for a man. And according to the article. 14th of that law, the Central State Sport Office takes over jobs, equipment, writing and other documentation, funds for the work of financial means, rights and obligations of sports inspection in the offices of the state administration in the county or City Office of Zagreb, as well as civil servants who are found in the performance of the work taken. And now, according to a new bill of law, since the Central State Sport Office has ceased its work today, the Law on Construction in the Part-Corruption of the Body of State Administration is now taking over from its district the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, and we are pleased that athletes have their own ministry. So, in 2019, she was in charge of the Central State Sport Office, but now she is the competent Ministry of Tourism and Sports until some of the following changes. Now, with regard to Article 2019, 13th said, and it is not more detailed now in 2021 that the Secretary of State of the Central State for Sport is obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the Official Card and the Sign of Sports Inspectors and the Rules on the Patterns and Methods of Conducting of Evidence on the inspection carried out and the measures taken by sport inspection with the provisions of that law of 2019, however, this is now not more detailed and explained. 13. In the current bill, the amendments are in Articles 9, 15, 16, 18, 22, 24, 31, 32, and Chapter V is replaced by the word "infringing." We believe that it is important to amend new articles on 31st 32s, since so far it has obviously not been properly separated where money penalties are now separated by legal persons in the sport system from individuals performing their own activities in the sport system. The question, however, is how to determine who gets the penalty from 10 to 50,000 kuna. According to Art. 22nd 24nd. The law on sports inspection, the inspector actually has broad powers, but he has the responsibility to properly assess whether emergency measures are needed, whether in the course of surveillance, whether they are extremely urgent cases, and that is to say that the inspector is responsible if he does not take measures or actions that under the law and the second regulation were required to take or if he oversteps his powers. But we wonder, then, what after he commits a sin? If it is a matter of correct and minor irregularities, it is actually good that, in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, the inspector may order the removal of the failures, deficiencies and irregularities within a certain time limit and can also carry out control inspection to see whether the obligation from the solution has been fulfilled and it was in fact highlighted in the public consultation that you have heard and heard very scarcely, it is also me personally when I was preparing myself very surprised, just one remark. We hope that these amendments to the legislative framework on the action of sport inspection will also improve the supervision of many entities in the sports system in the Republic of Croatia, so that they will also oversee the activities of associations and institutions and companies and other legal and physical persons performing sports activities and will help solve the accumulated problems. Now the problems are next and this can be learned in the field when you talk to people, with clubs, so fortunately few clubs violate legal provisions in the section relating to health checks, which is very important, to competitions, to report players, but is being violated in the area of funding. It should be stressed that sports inspection controls sports clubs whether they respect the Law on Sports, and in this it is an exceptional provision of the law relating to the financing of clubs and associations. In this segment, the inspection seems to me rarely find gaps, you did not mention them when I asked you in the replica because in fact a large part of the money is spent in cash, the donations received in cash are not recorded, the fees paid in cash are not recorded, and then that money is spent on semi-professionals, and it would not even be a problem that there is no money in these donations from local self-government and public companies that are channeled through the contractors who are paid in increased amounts to clubs. It is important that the inspection recognizes it all, that the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia works in the same way both in smaller clubs and in these large professional and certainly important to see such anomalies and violations of the law. It is high time to stop the wealth of individuals at the expense of the budget and it would certainly be necessary to define in more detail the future amendments to the law. It also bothers us that we do not have a report on the work of a sports inspection, which is not available, so we hope that you will change all this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33608	Thank you, too. Mr. Veljko Kajtazi will speak in front of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33609	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, respected colleagues and colleagues, as a longtime former athlete and former sports coach, I would like to look back on the subject of the Law on Sports Inspection, or its changes and additions that are ahead of us. Both the Law on Sports Inspection and the Law on Sports last year experienced their new versions. They are certainly an improvement in most segments compared to the old versions, therefore the changes and additions that we are talking about today are not of a larger scale. However, it was necessary to adopt them since the conduct of sports inspectors in the competent authorities of the county and the City of Zagreb differed from the conduct of state sports inspectors of the Central State Sport Office, which stopped working last year and took over from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. For these reasons, it is important to standardise decision-making in order not to make different decisions on the same things. The only one of the papers of the law is that persons who are not registered in the register of sports workers are prohibited from performing sports activities. It is also good that it is precise that within 8 days it sets a time limit for the adoption of a solution that imposes emergency measures in order to shorten the duration of the surveillance procedure. There are also new regulations relating to the criminal liability of legal or liability persons and natural persons carrying out their own activities in the sport system. All these changes are welcome and we will support this proposal as a Club of National Minorities. But I would take this opportunity to say a few sentences and a little more about sports in Croatia. I don't reveal anything new when I say that our sports successes are actually disproportionate to the size of a country or to the number of inhabitants. As a country with only 4 million inhabitants, we had finalists in the world football championships, at the biggest basketball competitions were world champions in handball and water polo, our individual athletes won the Grand Slam tennis championships, the Olympic and World Athletics, swimming, rowing medals, we had a winner of the World Ski Cup, etc., etc. The list of Croatian athletes' medals is very long and would have taken away my entire time of speech. As a small country, we have top results, and I am convinced that we would have even more if we were to invest in sports and if these investments were systematic, rather than ad hoc depending on which sport currently available to the public. Anyone who is more serious about sports will testify that the results do not come quickly, do not come out of the clear sky, and are the result of the years and more effort of individuals and sports collectives. And that's why investment in sports must be systematic, meaningful and long-term because otherwise, it's just throwing money into the wind. One of the things that is also present in Croatia, and as far as sports are concerned, is the relationship that the public and the media often have with athletes, which I don't think is right. It is a relationship with the results that athletes achieve because it is often the fourth and fifth place in the world or Europe that is viewed as underestimating. Now imagine people, teams who have been working hard for years, go to the world championship, be the fifth in the world, and when they come home, they spit them out because they're so fifth. I don't know what to call it except tragically. On the other hand, successes are celebrated in an enthusiasm that as soon as you fall, collapse and investment and interests for those same athletes as only one cartoon in the lives of a nation or more harshly express the series you watch on television, you go on afterwards. It is no wonder, therefore, that this gives birth to a relationship that I mentioned earlier, that only medals are recognized, and sometimes even those, let us remember the basketball player and the disappointment that Croatia is just bronze in the world championship. To celebrate 2 days and then forget everything, and then consequently the institution's relationship with athletes will be from situation to situation, year to year, from championship to system-free championship, which would bring long-term stable perspectives. Perhaps the best way to look at sports is to say physical infrastructure to gyms and other sports courts. They're mostly nowhere near enough compared to the real needs. For example, one Zadar does not have conditions where tennis can be trained in winter. In addition, in situations where we have certain facilities, it often happens that after the end of the competition they are raised they simply fail because they are not maintained properly or modernised properly. My sport, which I've been doing for years or decades, any contestant, any coach is karate. I've invested a lot in it during my life, and I'm never sorry. What I regret is that this sport in Croatia is not doing well. In addition to what other sports have been bothering us with the insufficient and dissystematic investments I mentioned, karate also has a problem leading the Croatian Karate Alliance. The alliance does not work well, and after the scandal that the president of the alliance had at the top of the line only was replaced by his secretary of the alliance and after that, more or less everything remained exactly the same. I'm sorry about that because karate is not only a sport that I've dealt with, but also because it's one of the most professional Croatian sports when watching European and world medals. I sincerely hope and believe that not only in karate, but also in other sports where the situation is not working properly will change for the better. These amendments and additions to the legislation proposed by the resolution ministry are a small step in this direction, but should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33610	Thank you, too. Mr. Davor Dretar in front of the House Movement Representatives Club. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Mario Kapulica in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33611	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of HS, the honourable representatives of the motion, ladies and gentlemen. Here's an institution that even the most concerned supporters are concerned about all state institutions as artisans, I can't say that the artistic view of the number and tasks of sports inspectors is, on the contrary, I think we can say that whoever works there has work over his head, and there are only twice as many of them in this hall today, and they are concerned about the legality of the work in the entire Croatian sport. I think that these people should be congratulated, that they should be encouraged to meet with amendments to this law in order to carry out their activities more easily, and that they should also be considered in the perspective of their human strength as conditions for doing so. And I agree with my colleague, Mrak Taritash, that these are people who must have great knowledge and great experience and the ability to apply this great knowledge and experience in concrete situations and I am convinced that our sports inspectors know very well how to distinguish minor gaps for which they express warnings from those that need to be penalized. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am pleased that we are having this debate under conditions when we finally have the first strategic document in the field of sport at national level adopted in HS on 12 July 2019. Our main goal, despite all the crises we face, which are reflected in Croatian sport as well, is to continue the policy of improving the conditions for the development of our athletes, to create assumptions for increased availability of sports content and activities, and this involves not only improving sports infrastructure and continuing investment in sport, co-financing, construction, upgrade, restoration of sports facilities, but also serious control of the legality of the activities of all stakeholders in sport. In this respect, a coherent way of handling sports inspections at central and county levels, as well as uniform treatment and avoidance of different decisions in the same administrative matters is a direction that HDZ Club supports. As regards the concrete amendments and the addition of the law that we are discussing today, it is evident in some aspects that it is going to simplify procedures, such as the completion of the supervisory procedure during which there are no irregularities detected without the obligation to adopt a solution and we support these amendments, as well as those which specify among other aspects the deadlines for issuing infringement orders and the resolution of sports inspectors, which is the subject of amendments to Articles 18 and 24 of the existing law, which reduces the duration of the procedure both in the case of regular and emergency measures. Given that the appropriate healthcare capacity is a condition for the registration of sports activities, the applicant rightly proposes to amend the Article. 22 points 4, and the change is called Chapter V also because it is clearly necessary because it is about correcting the wrong name, and since it is really about the criminal provisions prescribed by this law. Changes at 9:00 a.m. The article increases the amount of penalties prevented, this was the case, more specifically the reasons for their pronunciation and the penalty is not to report to the inspector on compliance with the obligations of the solution, which is clearly seen as a problem in the practice of deafness or inappropriate delay in meeting these obligations. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the development of sports can only go hand in hand with the development of infrastructure, the removal of existing imbalances in development and the constant and alert development of compliance with the prescribed and law of certain obligations of all participants and stakeholders in sport. The government has set goals in sport, priorities and measures to achieve these objectives and to achieve these objectives, we as representatives call for integration, interaction of all levels of state authorities in their implementation, because policies that want to continue to contribute to the development of sports must be taken into account. But no policy, no matter how well-designed and how good the motives are represented, no matter how sectorally developed, can reach its full affirmation and realization without broad support and involvement of interested citizens. The improvement of basic local and regional infrastructures, the creation of an incentive environment for sport development, for inclusion in sport and for strengthening human potentials related to its needs is not only dependent on the state, government and ministries, nor on the bodies of local and regional self-government or sports alliances, but also on the number of enthusiasts of clubs and associations that do not belong to both state, private and profit sectors. Croatia has about 7500 associations registered in the field of sports and recreation. They all expect a new perspective of development, but also the new Sport Act, which is kind of announced here, which will solve a large number of problems in the functioning of sports organisations, improve the status of athletes and professional staff in sport, and further regulate the criteria for co-financing of sport infrastructure. Therefore, at the end of this presentation, with the support of the proposed amendments and additions to this law, we encourage the resolution ministry to come forward with this bill as soon as possible. Finally, we call on the competent ministry to seek to support Croatia's sport system under the terms of the pandemic, which so far includes more than 600 legal persons in the system of sports and more than 1300 employees, with the hope that soon we will return to normal conditions of operation, training and competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33612	Thank you, too. Sir, we're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mrs. Maria Selak Rasdic, she's gone, she's losing her right. And Mr. Ivan Celic, who's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Sports Control. At first, I want to show satisfaction about the format of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports as a whole. As far as I know, Ireland and Poland have as EU member states often have a sport combined with culture but we know what tourism and sport are for the Republic of Croatia. Although this is about an independent sports inspection sector or its powers in large part, I will briefly refer to the sports administration or the support sector of the sport system and health-oriented exercise. In the field of competence, if we look at the Law on Sports Inspection, in the jurisdiction of the exercise of the sport activity, the inspector shall determine, inter alia, whether the sport activity is carried out in accordance with the prescribed technical and health conditions, whether the persons involved in the sport competitions have the appropriate medical ability and what is also very important if the rules on the use of illicit funds or the question of doping control are respected. I think it's very well regulated when we talk about determining health skills in children and therefore specialists in school medicine, pediatric specialists, and then in adults the appropriate doctors where prescribed, I think the new Sport Act should also take care of the education of club or representative doctors. It seems to me sometimes that according to some subjective assessment someone is appointed a club doctor, so at least if in smaller areas it is impossible for them to be specialists in medicine, sports and medicine work, to be people who will still pass the proper education because I think it is very, very important. There is more and more scientific evidence that speaks therefore of the importance of sport and its positive health aspects. In Europe, the EU's political document White Paper on Sports sets the stage for promoting health through sport. It states as a means of health-oriented physical activity for sports movements has a greater impact than any social movement. In adults and older adults, physical activity lowers the risk of premature death, the risk of heart disease and stroke, the risk of type 2 diabetes. I'm going to look back here briefly on sudden cardiac death. In fact, we often experience athletes as the healthiest members of our community, so sudden death during sports activities deeply affects the local community, and when it happens, it is often quite a media follow-up. If we look at the incidence of sudden frequent, sudden heart deaths in a group of young athletes it is low, it ranges from 0.5 in the United States to 2.3 to 100,000 athletes annually in North Italy, but preventative examinations of athletes as part of the primary prevention measures of sudden heart death are particularly important and the standards of 12 channel ECG significantly increase the sensitivity of preventive examination up to 66%. With today’s knowledge and availability, information should no longer be an excuse for ignorance or non-recognition of heart disease, of course when possible. Today we are faced with one situation, therefore, and dumped prices as regards polyclinics that provide preventive examination services, and I think that this sport inspection should very well open our eyes that in order to make some opportunities and profits due to the cheapness of the medical examination, these health checks do not only come down to signing certain documentation but rather to spend enough time doing physical examination and ECG to really disable all those negative health outcomes and simply to prevent all these unwanted events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33614	Thank you, too. Two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33615	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, you've made all your best wishes. I would like to point out once again that it is indeed an inspection duty to work on that educated people who provide assistance on the ground to young athletes and all athletes, that this education is not uniform to see athletes as laymen, as well as their coaches who do not know the basic life support procedures. As you know, and I'm sure everyone here in this assembly knows that the first minutes are crucial, unless the basic life-support process is started using an automatic external defibrillator, which should be an obligation to exist without it going to work. So I think that the inspection should work to bring this first through the law, and then to keep that exercise strictly under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33616	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33617	Well, here's a colleague you're like a person who has a lot of experience in the field of emergency medicine and I believe that unfortunately you've had a situation, whether it's about children and young people, whether it's professional athletes in this Law on Sports Inspection exist within the Art. 19. when an inspector may order the removal of the failure or deficiency or when he may prohibit his own activity. I was talking about primary prevention, and you mentioned secondary prevention, today it would be logical that there are defibrillators on all sports halls, sports facilities and therefore I also said the question of course not only medical staff but also people who are in daily contact with athletes to be educated at least as regards ABC procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33618	And Mrs. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33619	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. Nicely in your speech you pointed out our common theme, which is the health skills of athletes. It is very important to be available in the smaller and larger environments as well as specialists in labor medicine or sports. However, practice is such that, in many clubs, you have children among which there may also be various heart defects that will one day lead unfortunately to major problems, even sudden deaths, so you have in these reviews what would be said to be rapid, means twenty children in an hour agree that this review is actually very not detailed or missing, and when you want your child from a small age to be adequately examined then you have to reach out to yourself in your pocket and pay for a specific private specialist of labor medicine or sports. I think clubs should be more careful here, and, of course, in this case, maybe also a sports inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33620	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33621	Well, dear colleague Maric, I agree with you, and that's why I touched the subject a little bit. If you see the offers of certain polyclinics that they offer for 50, 60, 70 kuna reviews per child or sportsman, we unfortunately had situations where some of our top athletes, such as waterpolyists, had to stop for health reasons because of certain health problems with their sports careers, sometimes they were interruptions and temporary, sometimes they were permanent, but precisely with quality insurance, quality preventive checks for which it still takes time, you're an intern, I think that you can prevent it from being bureaucratic and administration to sign and pay for it rather than actually having to do a quality examination to avoid any physical complications.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-11-0.u33622	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas and I'm also closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 with information on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the EU and the UK of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, so Brexit. It's a very interesting subject. I'll see you in the morning. Goodbye. MEETING Interrupted at 6:54 p.m.
