ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u42834	It is now up to the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Miroslav Škoro, who will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u42835	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Radin. So, colleagues and colleagues, we live in a country where each Croatian citizen can freely choose and be chosen, so it should be. Hand to heart, we have heard many times so far about election thefts, about the dead who vote and about some other manipulations of election processes, such as unscheduled election lists. There's been a lot of speculation and speculation, but after the last local elections, we can safely argue that the theft and manipulation were, and there are no reactions to the responsible. TV houses reported it, filed complaints, presented evidence, but nothing. So there's one saying that says, dogs bark, caravans pass. In our case, caravans of crime, corruption, clientelism, taverns of any state and fund-raiser money, along with thieving passes, and like me and us from the Homeland Movement, we do this second job, we bark a little bit, so here again today very concrete and unconventional I will say the following, in the Slavonian town of Vrhovina, it is Garcin municipality in Brod-Posavina County, individuals have publicly presented evidence of theft and I will repeat them here for this pay phone and see what happens after that. Probably nothing again. Tomislav Tolic, who sat on the electoral board, claims in front of TV cameras that people who do not live at all in Croatia are surrounded, but are in the emigration and do not go to the polls. One of them even went to jail. Tomislav also showed a text message from Draga Andric, a HDZ observer in which Mr Andric asked to confirm that there was a person at the vote who did not approach the vote if someone accidentally asked him. The message was sent the day after the election, so on Monday, at 9pm and 33 minutes, so that there would be no charms. One of those in the polling post is Antonio Babić, who lives in August, Germany, who was last in Croatia on April 1st of this year, so he was not on election day and has the same gentleman's video release, there is. He addressed the competent municipal election committee, whose Vice-President, Domagoj Kozul, confirmed that he was registered as a voter who had joined the elections, although at that time he was looking at miracles in Augsburg. Gabriel Prgomet, who lives in Hungary, was also not in Croatia at the time of the election, but his name was also rounded up. When asked about it, he was later told that his name, not his brother, had been misrounded by mistake, that his brother had not been elected either. It should also be noted that the president and vice-president of the electoral committee must not be a party person, but it has been found that the chairman of the electoral committee is a member of the HDZ Supremes. We are therefore witnesses, even after television reports and a series of media articles that wrote about this ruthless state institution event, did absolutely nothing. There are colleagues and colleagues, all the Croatian public stealing votes is a criminal offence for which a prison sentence of up to 3 years can be imposed, and it should also be said that the rejected objections, and all of them have been rejected for now, the applicant may appeal to the Constitutional Court. So here's another appeal from this pay phone and I call on the competent state institutions to react and finally do something about it. And just to say that it's sad that people who go to the election to start at least don't sign the lists, it's never been clear to me why we don't do it, I'm not going to talk about electronic voting because it's too complicated and too demanding. But I think that signing would be an already significant step forward in terms of credibility, you come, you sign and you move on. The right to choose and be chosen in no way implies the right to be stolen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u42836	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u42951	Let's go to the second presentation, it's the Green-Left Blog Representatives Club, respected colleague Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u42952	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We often hear here from both the prime ministers and the majority members that they have done a lot to save the economy in the covid crisis, while the country that boasts about saving the economy and the private sector in the covid crisis with billions of kunas, destroys its own factories, factories that are therefore owned by factories in which it was able to intervene and save them from destruction. One of these factories is “Orlja” and “Orlja” is also one of the last textile factories in Croatia in which 300 workers and workers worked until the covid crisis. Today, workers and workers of Orjava, as well as the new union, are forced to seek answers for their jobs in Mark’s square because once again they tried to get a response from the Government on government’s intentions about the factory, about saving the situation in the factory, about the fact that they had not been paid for 3 months, they did not get the answer. I would like to point out that, in addition to the fact that the workers and workers did not get paid, the German partner they worked for announced that he intends to break up the cooperation, however, the trade unions themselves realised in a conversation with that partner that the German partner would like to continue working with Orljav, but that they wanted a partnership with the owner, or the state in this case. Did the state offer that? It's not. Why didn't she offer? So what it seems to us is that in fact all of this is happening now in Orljava, overtures, of course, into bankruptcy that has actually already been to certain stores at the Trade Court in Osijek and started. As the bankruptcy ends for the workers, we know that, and we saw that. I hope that no one will ever again dare to say that bankruptcy is actually here to try to restructure that company, secure jobs, etc., because here, just to remind you, and I hope that it will not be the fate of the workers and workers of the Orjava, I will remind you of what the bankruptcy procedure in Gredela looks like today. So for 10 years, the workers who received the cancellations have not yet received the severances, and have been offered some day and are forced to threaten to receive no money, to sign contracts where they agree to 49%, from 45% to 49% of what their right is, therefore, signed in 2011. This is how workers and workers end up in this Croatia. On the one hand, one allows all, and to earn through what they have, the other is taken, so basic existence, basic job, by the way, in a sector where wages are minimal anyway. However, these workers and workers still want those jobs, so I am now wondering how it saves the economy by destroying first its own factories, factories still owned by the state. And I would like to point out that the Eagles began to produce protective masks during the Covid crisis. We have alerted the entire Covid crisis to the importance of orientation on the domestic market, domestic production and production of protection masks, which have unfortunately been imported. We are left with an enigma why at this point the government did not link domestic production to the needs of sectors that are under the same government, to the education sector, to the health sector, so here, the security sector, the MUP, the military, even where you can directly order such things. So it's unclear why there was no connection between the Orjava, for example, to those sectors. And why didn't we get protection masks from them, after all, and we sitting here, why don't we have their masks out there? Well, maybe it wouldn't have come to what it's come to. So even though the number of workers fell seriously during the Covid crisis, from 300 to less than 200, even though the Eagle was receiving Covid's support. And what it seems to us is that the company, apart from wanting to go bankrupt, is that it wants to make that classic, share the property, share the loot, and I'll just say that workers and workers don't get paid, their salaries aren't paid, the company goes bankrupt, and the company's core capital is 20 million kuna. So it's not one of these companies that the government is very happy to engage with 20 thousand kunas of core capital, so they're given, like, hundreds of millions of jobs, no. It's a company with 20 million core capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43033	The fifth debate today, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak Taritas, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43034	Thank you very much. The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Ireland, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Cyprus, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Finland and Sweden, this is not some list of European football championships or other sports competitions, this is a list of countries whose prime minister together last week and publicly opposed once again the rape of laws and trampling of European values by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban. From centuries of Western democracies to former members of the Soviet bloc, from the largest to least from the east, the west, the north and the south with liberal, social or conservative governments or parliamentary majority, often in various combinations and coalitions, the 17 EU members therefore had a significant majority to say something about Victor Orban's latest dissuasion of human rights. This time it's about homosexuals, but it's not really about their rights. Viktor Orban has attacked both courts and laws, both the constitution of his country and journalists, and the opposition, and various minorities of national and other, Viktor Orban faces the foundations of a liberal democratic order in his country and the foundations of solidarity and European values within the EU. Now that his election is nearer, he needs a new scapegoat that will be directed at anger and dissatisfaction, so the already tried classic choice of homosexuals is decided. Viktor Orban is a man who has completely changed his political coat for the purpose of coming to power, from a young pro-European liberal who has become a bit of a young, dark-knited lunatic from the European province, whose money would not have gotten his hands on the elite European universities has become the person who kicked that same Shoros and his university out of Hungary. A man who mines the EU and its values at every step except when its chosen tycoons receive billions of European incentives for land and production that have come under suspicious circumstances that world media have written about. With such types, politicians and people are not friends, not only not to socialize, but as prime ministers on the list at the outset write a letter of condemnation. Such a letter is a good step in the right direction, but let's be realistic and at least what can be done, but that even at least to some was too much. You have noticed, if you have not heard earlier that there is no Croatia in the list of countries, Croatia whose leadership obviously has special sympathy for Orban, the prime minister is a little more secret and discreet, but unequivocally, and the foreign minister is more open and with less caution as to what he will say and what it will sound like. So he said that Croatia did not join because it wants to promote unity between EU members and what connects them and added that such letters bring unrest among them. And what exactly is it in the ministerial head that connects EU members? What is it about Orban's behavior connecting that we should refrain from being convicted? Connecting exactly what 17 prime ministers have done has opposed the violation of the fundamental European values and ideals on which the Union has built and has now held us above water in these difficult times. For a small country such as Croatia is the only way, the way forward of social and economic progress to be a consistent and secret advocate of international law, European unity, liberal democratic order of institutions and human and civil rights and freedoms. Unfortunately, this has once again proved something that our Brussels actors, multi-trailers, unmistakably translated bureaucratic phrases, still do not understand. Among the most successful EU prime ministers joined by both the European Commission president and the UN Secretary-General, our politicians, Mr Plenkovic, still prefer to sit with Orban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43035	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43036	I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure by my dear Mrs. Mrak Taritash, who, this time, presents her position and severely injured and defamed and defamed us the dear friendly prime minister of the neighbouring country of Hungary, and in my opinion, this must not happen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43037	Well, co-worker Mrak Taritash has expressed her opinion whether you can agree with or not, it was nothing more rude when she talks about our prime minister or about you, so there's no need for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I won't give you a warning because I understand your motive. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As every time at the beginning of the session, we start with the presentation of the position of representatives clubs and independent representatives. Today, the first one will be spoken by the esteemed colleague Željko Sacic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43096	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. The esteemed Croatian public. Today, on behalf of the Croatian Regional Club, we will request that we announce the actual request of the competent institutions, first and foremost the Minister of Science and Education, as well as the competent institutions from the Istrian County's county level, why under which conditions they have replaced them in due time during the night of Prof. dr.sc. Krešimir Pavelic, who was only in the framework of the Constitution and the law and science to which I belonged to biomedical molecular services, expressed his view of certain phenomena in our society on a round table where he expressed concern that he was ruling not only in Croatia but also outside Croatia not enough to react to the side effects and the adverse consequences of certain vaccines against the sick state of the covid-19 virus. He expressed this using recorded statistics and European Health and Medicinal Products Agency, even certainly statistics from the World Health Organization, etc., I do not go into it as much as how this vaccine works for people who are ill or how it prevents all of these people from future covida-19 diseases. However, this statement is primarily motivated by the strong need to stop one totalitarian, non-democratic performance in terms of different opinions, according to what we thought we were given on the ground of Europe and in Croatia, that the man today who makes his position clear, based on certain scientific and professional data, studies be decapitated overnight, be marginalized, be embarrassed and not only by public media, of all the disgraced, dragged through mud but even distanced from it by official institutions. For example, Minister Fuchs had a need to distance himself and I don't know what logic to talk about as a layman, but he also as a layman knows that what Prof. Pavelic, as top expert on this type of science, does not speak professionally enough. We point to the Croatian public for the appearance of totalitarianism, exclusiveness, hatred for those who think otherwise, who have a different argument, who are identified as proponents of theory, conspiracy, conspiracy, and only present their views, and these are people from the formats in this Croatian society. Prof. Dr. Pavelic is a member of the European Academy of Science, he is the founder of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, he has a brilliant scientific career behind him, so he is not a man who has drunk three gems in the client and lamentations with his neighbours what and how to prevent and how to treat the coronary virus, he is a man who has so far raised at least 50 PhDs, people of the master of science, different people in some way he raises generations of students. And now, during the night because of that statement, not only had a professional and scientific career broken down, but it had simply been thrown into the trash for those who were infected in Croatian society and we will seek, we will do everything in our power to give this man support to express our position and to fight for his opinion whatever it may be. We'll quote, quote ancient philosophers, humanists who said I don't agree with your opinion, but I will give my life that you have the right to express it freely. So dear friends of Croatians and Croats, all the good people in Croatia, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to know that Croatia sank into the darkness in which it could only be compared that such books, such studies are publicly burned at a stake that disagrees with our opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43197	Let's move on, colleague Davorko Vidovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43198	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, exactly June 29th, six months since the biggest natural disaster hit Croatia in recent history. Yesterday also 29.6. ended exactly three months ago, since 29.3., the Croatian prime minister's table has been completed, a programme prepared for revitalisation by the earthquake of the affected area of Sisak-Moslavina County. I have to remind once again of all those who don't know or don't live or forget or it's not on their eyes that it's about a space that has experienced its thorough economic debacle falling into a demographic abyss, that it's about a space in which it's only 2000, I'm not talking about a time of war and enormous eviction, which, that county has left 43,000 people, which is 23%, a quarter of the population of that county. For comparison, the whole of Croatia lost 5% of its population during the same period. It is a space, it is a county that is rapidly diversifying compared to Croatia, when it comes to GDP, it is a process particularly highlighted after 2013 so 5 years of the government's mandate is falling headlongly, this gap, between Croatia's GDP and the county. It is a dramatic, dramatic, truly dramatic data and indicators that require intervention that there was no such catastrophic earthquake. This is evidence, too, that it is Croatia as a country that has failed to find a quality regional policy for 30 years. What is now mentioned as the project Slavonia is, most commonly, simple, waste money, it is not a project that allows this region or any other region to develop by that concept and by that model. The program on the table of the prime minister gives a new paradigm for development. He is focused and focused primarily on restoring life, how life will be restored in a county that is no longer demographically restored. She's too old, it's the only county in which there are more pensioners than employees. Who leave young people daily, without intervention and help from the state, nothing will be done. I remind you, that, I turned it off, but it seems something, I apologize, it's a county that, 150 years ago, has stopped being a military landscape and, thank God, 25 years is not "Serbian province". There is no reason why the Croatian state should not take care of its space, the space its citizens live in because as important as the euro, Schengen, I don't know, combat planes, it is even more important to keep their space with the people who live in it. Houses, buildings will be restored somehow, but unfortunately in those houses there won't be anyone living, and then that restoration doesn't make much sense. I call on the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to stand at the head of a working group that was founded very quickly, 15 days after the earthquake, that he personally sees with his ministers what the problem is, why the programme of revitalisation, which is a high-quality, top-notch document with excellent goals, with mission, with vision, with 120 measures, is not said about it either. It is not good entirely or individually in some point, it is completely irrelevant now, but we want a quick reaction and we want that programme or some other, as soon as it comes here, representatives in HS, to be seen and to say what we intend to do with that part of our country, but also with all other parts of Croatia that fail in demographic, economic and any other sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43199	Thank you very much. Mrs Anamarija Blažević will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43290	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, frost, flood, fighting, these are 3 natural disasters in 3 months that hit Požega-Slavon County. In my county, people tend to deal with agriculture, which you yourself know, so they live off warfare, fruit growing, viticulture, and that's their existence. The prosthetics have not yet been able to complete the flood ratios that hit the end in early June, and 25.6 has already been hit by a new disaster. A very, very stormy storm followed by thunder with a strong wind and rain. They say people have fallen large amounts of ice and the size of nuts, and some even mention larger ones. Major damages, the apocalyptic scenes could be seen already that day, but the day after that it brought a real review of these truly great disasters that no one in that area remembers. Property here, I mean houses, roofs, windows, cars, everything got hurt. I guess there's almost no family who didn't get hurt. As you pass through the center of the town of Požega you see damage to cultural heritage, no roofs, broken roofs, broken cars, new facades full of holes. The millions of flood damages came from new estimates of hundreds of millions of kunas. We must be aware that in Požega-Slavon County a lot of people are engaged in agriculture and it is extremely important for this area and existence. It's sad to see the agricultural areas that have been devastated in 20 minutes. In certain economies, the damage is 100%, no annual but no multi-annual damages. It's really nothing. It's a waste of time. I've made sure of it myself. I think agriculture will have to recover for many years. The head of the municipality of Jaksic immediately after the calming situation looked at the facts and said the whole municipality was covered by great damage. Of the 10 settlements, there is not one that has not suffered any damage to family, economic public buildings, as well as crops. At 3200 hectares, there are about 200 hectares of fruit orchards of intensive production and there are no more breeds or 200 hectares of vegetable cultures either. It's a shame on all 3200 acres. The first assessment of the damage was about 18 million in agriculture, and these are the minimum amounts per hectare where about 6 million kuna of tobacco damage is on buildings of about 51 million kuna. So it's preliminary all together about 81 million kuna in the Jaksic municipality alone. In Tekic 52 households, perhaps 2-3 households have no damage. A similar story in the surrounding municipalities. The very center of Pozega County suffered great damage. Family houses, public buildings, general education, health, sacral and economic halls have been damaged and plants that account for damages of about 65 million kuna. Immediately the second day after this disaster, the area was visited by Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved, Agriculture Minister Marija Vukkovic, Minister of Labour and held a meeting with the Prime Minister yesterday and ministers to see the consequences personally. They agree that, with the regular measures that we have in agriculture and which help to tackle natural disasters such as co-financing of insurance measures, as well as the renewal of agricultural potentials through measure 5, additional mechanisms should be found for farmers, as long as regular measures work they need to live on something and know that they are not left to themselves. It will not and cannot endure everything that has hit it, and this is why it is important for the government to act quickly, and tomorrow the government will make its first decisions at its session that can help Požetina and its inhabitants to catch up with the wounds that this third disaster has caused us. I'm convinced it's just the first package of decisions to help repair the damage. Unfortunately here we have heard and today the government has experience in such and similar decisions and model that has been in Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovac County can also be applied to Požega-Slavon County. Thank you to all those who have made efforts these days to help my county and its inhabitants. I must commend the humanity and community of the people of Požetina, but I must not forget again the rush services that have shown readiness for major interventions. Unfortunately, for the last year and a half, there have been more and more disasters affecting the consequences of one, another earthquake, floods, beatings, pandemics. which makes life a lot harder for us. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] A third of Croatian counties in short A period of great material damage, and what needs to encourage us is rapid [[Intruder Radin: Thank you time.]] Decisions and interventions, and I hope this is the last disaster that has hit us. [[Intruder Radin: Mrs Blažević thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43291	Thank you, thank you, and I hope so. And at the end of the day, Mr. Miro Bulj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43393	Here I would address you peoples because of the problems we repeat from day to day every year, and mainly in pre-election times, mostly mention the topics of health protection, the fight against covids, the protection of the environment, the fight against those non-members who stop us daily in normal life. I would talk here about a very important project for the whole of Dalmatia, mainly for the Cetinski region, that is Agglomeration Sinj, which would protect the Cetina River, which feeds half of Split-Dalmatia County, and in the perspective of a clear, clean river Cetina would power the whole of Dalmatia i.e. The largest part of Split-Dalmatia County. Agglomeration Sinj was called public procurement last year in the first month of the 4th of 2020, so you see how much time it took to make the cost of the one that was in the cost. Public procurement was the lowest bid of 150 million kuna. It went to re-procurement in the 1st month again. Even higher price, it was divided into several parts. So what now? We have been waiting months for Croatia to lead and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which would be worth protecting the environment, to provide those resources that we do not have in the budget. which are not in this investment, and most of it is with local self-government with Croatian waters, most of the European funds. The centre of the town of Sinj is open sewerage, entering through lateral channels, through the Sinjsko polje where farmers would have to use these canals to water their agricultural surfaces clean, clear river Cetina. In the very center of the town of Sinj where children's kindergartens, restaurants, hotel all that is in the center of the town of Sinj. For months we have been waiting for the answer of the Ministry of Environment and Croatian Waters to give these 150 million kunas to our Dalmatia, Cetina, Cetini, which produces 40% of the hydropower of the Republic, the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia, and we cannot get an answer. I call on you once again we Sinjani are friendly, now as mayor, come to Sinjska alka you will see all the beauty that City of Sinj and Cetinski has, and we have plenty of them, not only from cultural manifestations such as Sinjska alka, not only from our protégé of the miraculous Lady of Sinj but also from our gastro offer, our river Cetina, our airport, our track and horse sport, everything in one place, and close to Split. I call upon you once again my colleagues and colleagues, and I call upon our people and to come to Sinj, you shall have what you see. But I also call on the competent Croatian waters, the minister and all those who will come to Sinjska Alka that the people of Sinja have had enough promises from year to year for the most important projects. Sinj is... on the tail and on the transport infrastructure and on this environmental protection problem i.e. The river Cetina. That's what I'm going to invite all the mayors and commissioners who are powering themselves from sources and streams of the Cetina River to join me and do this agglomeration. The people of Sinj didn't deserve this and the Cetina provinces to be on their tails, to be on the tail of all investments and projects. The people of Sinja are full of promises and I, as mayor of Sinj, expect everyone to come to Sinjska Alka, invite you all. I invite you to come welcome you guests, we have a good gastronomy, you will see the blue Arabs, you will see the blue Dalmatian prosciutto, you will see and try and taste. However, the minister in charge of the prime minister, the mayors of many promises, we expect that what you promised in the pre-election campaign for agglomeration to start doing this before Alka as well as other projects. Thank you very much. Here I would address you peoples because of the problems we repeat from day to day every year, and mainly in pre-election times, mostly mention the topics of health protection, the fight against covids, the protection of the environment, the fight against those non-members who stop us daily in normal life. I would talk here about a very important project for the whole of Dalmatia, mainly for the Cetinski region, that is Agglomeration Sinj, which would protect the Cetina River, which feeds half of Split-Dalmatia County, and in the perspective of a clear, clean river Cetina would power the whole of Dalmatia i.e. The largest part of Split-Dalmatia County. Agglomeration Sinj was called public procurement last year in the first month of the 4th of 2020, so you see how much time it took to make the cost of the one that was in the cost. Public procurement was the lowest bid of 150 million kuna. It went to re-procurement in the 1st month again. Even higher price, it was divided into several parts. So what now? We have been waiting months for Croatia to lead and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which would be worth protecting the environment, to provide those resources that we do not have in the budget. which are not in this investment, and most of it is with local self-government with Croatian waters, most of the European funds. The centre of the town of Sinj is open sewerage, entering through lateral channels, through the Sinjsko polje where farmers would have to use these canals to water their agricultural surfaces clean, clear river Cetina. In the very center of the town of Sinj where children's kindergartens, restaurants, hotel all that is in the center of the town of Sinj. For months we have been waiting for the answer of the Ministry of Environment and Croatian Waters to give these 150 million kunas to our Dalmatia, Cetina, Cetini, which produces 40% of the hydropower of the Republic, the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia, and we cannot get an answer. I call on you once again we Sinjani are friendly, now as mayor, come to Sinjska alka you will see all the beauty that City of Sinj and Cetinski has, and we have plenty of them, not only from cultural manifestations such as Sinjska alka, not only from our protégé of the miraculous Lady of Sinj but also from our gastro offer, our river Cetina, our airport, our track and horse sport, everything in one place, and close to Split. I call upon you once again my colleagues and colleagues, and I call upon our people and to come to Sinj, you shall have what you see. But I also call on the competent Croatian waters, the minister and all those who will come to Sinjska Alka that the people of Sinja have had enough promises from year to year for the most important projects. Sinj is... on the tail and on the transport infrastructure and on this environmental protection problem i.e. The river Cetina. That's what I'm going to invite all the mayors and commissioners who are powering themselves from sources and streams of the Cetina River to join me and do this agglomeration. The people of Sinj didn't deserve this and the Cetina provinces to be on their tails, to be on the tail of all investments and projects. The people of Sinja are full of promises and I, as mayor of Sinj, expect everyone to come to Sinjska Alka, invite you all. I invite you to come welcome you guests, we have a good gastronomy, you will see the blue Arabs, you will see the blue Dalmatian prosciutto, you will see and try and taste. However, the minister in charge of the prime minister, the mayors of many promises, we expect that what you promised in the pre-election campaign for agglomeration to start doing this before Alka as well as other projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43395	Thank you, too. Mrs. Peovic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43396	Please request a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43397	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but you can only ask for a break when there's a point. We'll wait for a point and then have some patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43447	We're going to the 3rd debate, IDS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43448	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Is the Republic of Croatia an EU member or a country outside the razor wire? In the autumn of 2015 during the immigration crisis, R. Slovenia placed a razor-live on the part of the border with the Republic of Slovenia. In the beginning of 2017, it completely fenced the border, the state border in the area of Ćićarija with razor wire, and thus made it impossible for residents to pass along the road they used to reach their parcels, they can no longer do so because they have no other access route. In order to increase the absurdity, the service of the state border at the State Geodetic Authority carried out a field survey more than 2 years ago and carried out the necessary geodetic measurement, all based on information and documents delivered by the Ministry of the Interior. The results have been carried out by the department of the Interior, the Police Directorate and the Border Administration. In short, the results of the measurements are such that the wire is actually on Croatian territory and that there is a violation of the state border, between 7 and 22 metres. And the wire is still there all those years and colleagues and colleagues, not only is it a problem to hurt the state's borders and prevent citizens from accessing their parcels, although it is unacceptable in every orderly state or inability to put out any possible fires, since it is too difficult for forests because it is not possible to pass intervention vehicles, which is beyond any sense, nor is it that crime has been committed against nature and animals, biodiversity, sustainable use of natural resources, wild flora, fauna, with particular emphasis on endangered and vulnerable migratory species, are directly endangered wolf, lynx, bear, which are strictly protected species of interest in the EU and whose migrations are disabled, and besides them, all other species of savages, many of whom have ended their lives on a razor-wire fence, remember those sad examples of high-sharvets that have been entified. But that razor wire, along with all of this, represents something far more dangerous than that, something that should concern us all. Where did we come as company? Here, look at this photo, this is how concentration was once fenced. Istria remembers the difficult moments of its history as well as Croatia as a whole, and one of the most difficult was just when a similar wire was being fenced to build, separated the privileged caste from the less valuable by some strangely unacceptable criteria are still living witnesses of that time. So I ask again, whether the Republic of Croatia is an EU member or a country outside a wire razor or within a wire depending on the perspective. Do we, in the 21st century in a free Europe, combine peoples and peoples or separate? Have we become a dehumanized society without empathy, compassion, no matter what's really wrong with everyone in that country? Well, I'm not. The IDS Club will ask the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to be identified on the subject as soon as possible and to take all actions to remove the wire from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, to allow the passage of locals to their land, but with the ultimate aim of finally removing the razor wire completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43493	The fourth debate today, a respected colleague, Katarina Peovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u43494	Good afternoon, everyone. I invite you colleagues and colleagues to come out in front of the assembly as a sign of solidarity with Orljava workers who will protest today along with the new Union Union of Textiles, Skin and Shoes because they have not received their salary for 3 months. A problem has arisen in the delivery of shirts that they have successfully produced for years, sometimes as many as 7,000 shirts have been exported weekly when their strategic partner from Germany Olympus first reduced and then abolished orders. But this is another well-known scenario of destroying the company in order to get its sales and is already being calculated that Hemko is a company that wants to privatise this company and, of course, we have to remember how privatisation ends, never good for the workers, never good for the jobs or for the state-owned companies. I will remind you that in this situation where workers come to Mark's square and when they seek their hard-earned salaries, normally Minister Darko Horvat, who now the minister of spatial planning said, and these are the workers of the Oilers who knew well when he was Minister of Economy, our hands are tied, Plenkovic would also say, our hands are tied. But in this situation, colleagues and colleagues can't say that. Why? Because it's a state-owned company. And for the first time, they really have a responsibility and those responsibilities, of course, they want to get rid of it because it's much simpler to say that our hands are tied. Otherwise, oil workers called Minister Horvat, the minister next week. Because the most common answer to the question of what will happen to us, the existential questions of the oil workers answered, we will know more next week. That can't happen in this case. We need to stand by the workers of the Eagle and we need to push the government to do what her job is, which means the companies that are in her hands to maintain it. When we come up with that question, we know what the answer will be, the state is a bad master. Why is the German state not a bad master, the Italian state, why aren't other countries bad masters? Croatia is a bad master. And in this situation, we'll get that answer. So France has stakes in shipbuilding, in Pegeot, Germany in Volkswagen, Germany and in Croatian Telecom means it can own a Croatian company, and Croatia cannot own its own company. We have meaning examples all over the world, but Croatia will fit the state is a bad master. So it comes to privatizing a company to become a good master of what it does, it actually achieves competitiveness in the fastest possible way. And that's reducing labour prices, firing workers and shutting down jobs. It's the fastest way to make a profit and that's what's going to happen in this situation. Or, let's say, achieving a monopoly over a market so as to eliminate a competitor. In all our situations, we've had this model of why it would be something different now. So there's one more thing to say. When the state is a bad master, when it takes care of workers, and you're the same government officials when they care about their own benefits are very good masters. Let's remember Martina Dalic who buys shares in companies that destroy. So we can't talk about a bad master. The price of working in the textile industry as already said is extremely low. It's mostly about women who, therefore, are increasingly underpaid, it's about the break of a company that uses the market where there is, so that uses countries where they have a cheap labour price, but also in such conditions, they want to work, they want to keep their jobs. It may seem to the workers at this point that it is also good to privatise them purely to continue production, but I remind no privatised company has finished with better wages, with more jobs or maintained production. That's the pattern we've seen before. I have also addressed the parliamentary question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Darko Horvat, so what is the reason for irresponsible ownership behaviour towards Orljav, but also here I am asking the question which is why, what is the reason for irresponsible behaviour not only against the company but also against workers and all those who want to live from their work They lived on their work or lived on their work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53549	And now we move to the first item of the agenda today and this week, that is: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2020. The applicant shall be the Ombudsman for children under Article. 19. It's a law about a child's attorney. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Would Ms. Prosecutor's report to the Advocate General for the Children of Ms. Helena Pirnat Dragicevic like to take the floor? Now you can ask for a break, so you can have Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53550	Thank you. Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for a maximum period of 30 minutes to allow representatives and representatives to participate in a protest of the textiles of the company from Požega Orlja which are just now in front of the meeting on Mark’s square, some of them, many of them are mothers and therefore seeking a break at this point also has to do with the lawyer’s report. They've been gone for three months. In this case, unlike any other cases in which our prime minister and minister will answer that their hands are tied, they cannot respond because it is a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53551	Mrs. Peovic said the core of what you needed, I must take your word because you can only ask about this item of the agenda, this pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53552	I still insist on a break, I said we connect that point to what...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53553	I know, well, you said that, I didn't interrupt you, but now I have to interrupt you by not entering the content, and the content you said is clear, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53554	The thing is, you have to let a two-minute break be explained, so that's the Rules of Procedure, so that's why I'm taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53555	Thank you very much. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53556	Mr. Vice President, you've injured Article 348. The Rules of Procedure because you didn't let your colleague Peovic finish at all and she's absolutely right when she says she has 2 minutes to explain the break, and then you can assess whether it makes sense or doesn't make sense, not to interrupt her in practically 45 minutes. So I ask you to give her back her word to finish what she meant to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53557	Thank you very much, you have a note from Mr. Whiteman because what he said doesn't have anything to do with the article you said, and you know it very well. I let Mrs. Peovic tell the core of it because I let her. That's why you can ask this guy to give me a warning but not for the other one, but you didn't ask. There are others, Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic, but Mrs. Sandra Bencic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53558	So here's if we're going to insist on formalism in these situations, and here's the thing about today's topic and the agenda point, because I hope we're going to talk about child poverty, and out there is going to be a large number of workers and workers who are just about to end up in poverty because their children's poverty is right about the existential status of parents. We have a situation that the state-owned company is that workers do not receive salaries, that they do not receive 3 months, but not only do they not receive salaries but that the prime minister does not want to receive them, or explain to them what the state's intentions are about the factory. One of the last textile factories in Croatia, the factory that we could use in any way for the mitigation of all the risks associated with the Covid crisis, for example, just sewing the protective masks on which they had crossed their own, we did not do so but are now deliberately going into bankruptcy, and people have to stand in this heat on Mark's square to get any response from the government after they've already asked for it several times. So, I'm calling all MPs, MPs. Let's go outside and support the workers and the workers... [[Intruder: Mrs. Bencic, Mrs. Bencic is back on...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53559	Mrs. Bencic, let's stick to the law as the drunk floats because otherwise it's not democratic. We'll go back to the agenda point and shape it any way you want, but we'll go back to the agenda point. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53560	Here I said, so I said, here's another 300 and more plus kids could end up in the poverty that we're going to talk about today if we don't support the workers and workers who are employed by the state company, if we don't save them, and if we don't prevent the government from trying to take them into bankruptcy. I invite you to go outside and be solid with all those who now seek their basic existential rights in this heat because the government did not want to guarantee them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53561	Thank you. I've put this into a situation that I have to tell you, let's stick to the subject of the agenda. About all the other things, everyone has the freedom to stay, go out and do whatever they think their conscience says, right, I have to stay here. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53562	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I am also looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for 10 minutes to protect the rights of children whose parents do not receive salaries and whose existence is compromised. Their daily needs are threatened, especially when it comes to single - parent families in which the salary is the only source of income. In particular, women at risk are employed in the textile industry, and the latest tragic example of the closure of factories in Slavonia is the closure of the Orlja factory in Požega. Women have not received salaries for 3 months, it is a factory owned by the government of the Republic of Croatia, in which shameless women do not receive salaries, have not received a resurrection, a Christmas certificate for ten years, a jubilee reward is sought by the court and work for a minimumer regardless of their working time. It is 180 women who remained after the Covid crisis which was 300 employees, working on average from 25 to 30 years where they worked in 3 shifts and spent their working lives at the factory and are now in a uncertain situation for their workplace because the factory is before bankruptcy. I call on all parliamentary deputies to join the protest in Mark's square where more than 100 women came with their fates and the desire to be heard, to ensure their rights are guaranteed by law. Unfortunately, the government had no hearing because they asked for a four-time conversation with the owner of the government of the Republic of Croatia about their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53563	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53564	Thank you very much. Poverty in children and in this case workers and workers in the Republic of Croatia, their children in the Republic of Croatia have been neglected. I believe that in Croatia poverty has been brought to this level that in many areas, and mainly in the textile industry where from today on, workers of the Orljava workers who do not receive salaries to my workers of the Dalmatian women with whom I have protested and even led protests, their children are not equal. They're not equal and they're forgotten. The carelessness of the system towards workers who earn their wages fairly, and no one pays them for it is a struggle from which I became personally and formed, then as an activist, and today as a politician, i.e. as a parliamentary representative. These women are in the Dalmatians, like today in the Orlyawa, forgotten. Nobody cares about their kids. Who's gonna pay for their kindergarten if they're pissed? Here's an example, I, as mayor of Sinja, welcomed 180 students unlisted in kindergarten. Is the state of care and the Barcelona Convention i.e. The Europe 2020 Council, which said by 2000 that by 2020 90% of children from 3 to 6 years of age must be enrolled in a educational institution called kindergarten. The state has given up most of the undeveloped area and does not co-finance anything, we have 40% of local self-government units that are unable to open one place for kindergarten. It is really Croatian to Croatian children. But at the same time, it suits big companies in energy, while neglecting small, let's say, microsolares. That poor girl, we allowed these workers to be put on their houses. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Build all against the interests of workers and children [[Thank you, Mr. Bull. Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Agreement: Mr. Marijan Pavliček.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53565	Dear Vice President of HS, we are looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to further consult on this point, but also to mention once again that here, just over half an hour ago, the chief director of HRT, the public service which was voted right here in HS [[No, no, no. Just, just.]] And this just shows... [[Intruder: Only about this point.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53566	Don't start like that, it's not the agenda point, Don't do me. [[But, I must say, I have the right to take advantage of this pause now.]] And I'm sorry, too, but I have to give you a warning, no matter what. [[I'm sorry, we have to say that. /]] No matter what, if you're right, you're not right, I'm not getting into it right now, but the agenda point is the child's attorney and I'm Mrs. Peovic stopped, and then the others formed it and put the same thing in the context of this law, so then, as you saw I allowed and now I will call Mrs. Helenat Pirnat Dragicevic speaks on behalf of the prosecutor for the children to speak on behalf of the promoter. Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53567	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Parliamentary Representatives, or Mrs. MPs. This is 18. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children who delivers and analyzes the state of children's rights in the country from the perspective of the work of our Office during 2020 and the recommendations and guidelines for further improving the position and rights of children in the Republic of Croatia. In the year in which extraordinary events drastically changed the everyday child, this report is marked in all parts by these extraordinary situations, the Covid-19 epidemic, the national efforts to stop the epidemic and the devastating earthquakes that hit the wider areas of the country. Most of our observations, but also recommendations and reports, are based on life situations where children and their guardians, teachers, educators, doctors and all others who care about children, as well as data obtained from a large number of social stakeholders so that they can present as much insight into the state of children's rights in Croatia as possible. I must point out that despite the difficult circumstances of the work due to the epidemic and the significant damage to the building of our Office in Zagreb caused by the earthquake and in 2020, we sought to be available to children and parents to the guardians and institutions who addressed us for advice, assistance and support, mostly by telephone and e-mail. In 2020, we received 10% more applications compared to the previous year, a total of 1923 new reports were received in connection with child rights violations, and we were working in parallel with 574 cases transferred from the previous year. We have also worked on more than 1000 items related to general initiatives and reports, recommendations, proposals and amendments to regulations, expert meetings, conferences, projects, cooperation with state and international institutions and general business of the Office. We have recorded 1200 phone conversations with the parties, which means an average of 6 day parties, i.e. citizens who are asking for our team's emergency assistance in solving one of the child-related problems. Looking back on the year behind us, I can point out that we have seen some shifts at national level. The system of education and education moved at an incredible rate on television and the Internet, ensuring the continuity of children's rights to education. The importance of a comprehensive action on prevention of violence and neglect of children in the family has also been recognised, the country's willingness to fight violence against children has been seen and areas of protection against violence have been improved in terms of improving regulation. In order to ensure timely protection in cases of violence, the Ministry of the Interior has launched campaigns in collaboration with the partners, among other things, behind the door, launched other activities that resulted in a greater number of criminal applications for domestic violence and criminal protection of children, and we can certainly interpret as an effect, a kind of effect of the communication efforts of the relevant ministry. Changes in the family trial system have been announced, sanctions for crimes committed to the harm of children have been tightened, the preparedness of the competent justice ministry to make moves to address problems in the judicial system has been demonstrated. Despite these significant improvements, however, we continue to witness a number of problems in the functioning of the child protection system. The role of the Ombudsman is to monitor the exercise of children's rights, to detect problems, to point to them and to propose changes. Our tools are recommendations, warnings and communications. In order to achieve the best possible and to improve the existing level of protection of children's rights and interests, we have also addressed over the year hundreds of recommendations relating to the protection of individual rights of the child or of the individual case, 72 general recommendations, warnings and statements aimed at improving the protection of the rights of children or individual groups, and most of all in the field of education and in the areas of health. It is about recommendations, statements and warnings to the institutions, bodies, legal entities of different stakeholders, the most executive authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries, with 40% of the recommendations being related to the impact of the virus corona and the measures to combat it in different areas of child rights. Out of 59 concrete recommendations, 73% are accepted, but we cannot be satisfied with their realisation since only 30% is realised, which means every sixth recommendation. Besides, there's no feedback for four recommendations so far. Following changes and challenges in the protection of children's rights during this health crisis on our website, we opened a special section in which we regularly published recommendations and opinions to make children's rights more effective during the epidemic. At the end of the year, we held an online conference where we tried to review measures and key lessons on child protection during the epidemic. Other forms of co-operation for the protection of children's rights with the restoring ministry and with the national crisis headquarters have also been achieved as a result of this crisis with regular work. This would highlight the activities and decisions that positively affected children in crisis 2020, i.e. to assess flexibility, compliance with the conditions of uncertainty, increased activity and commitment to seek solutions for children in education systems of health, home affairs, social care and justice. If we had a report for 2020. wanted to bring down one sentence she'd read, the children on hold. Our children are most of that year as patient users of social services put on hold. They were waiting for information about when schools and kindergartens would open, under what conditions, waiting for the Internet to come to their home and a computer that could track the school remotely, waiting for information about the graduation, waiting for the examination and therapy, for the parents in hospitals, for the children's homes, waiting for them to return to their earthquake-broken homes, to come help and protection from family violence, to go out to the park, to the playground to hang out with their friends, to play sports. They were patient and responsible and I think that we adults should thank and congratulate them on that. Analysing defence applications to areas, we recorded some changes compared to the previous year. In addition to the usual high number of applications in the field of child's personal rights, especially in the area of family relations, the highest increase in applications and complaints, we have recorded questions and requests in the field of child's rights to education, about a hundred more applications compared to the previous year, which were mainly related to the application of protection measures and their impact on the exercise of the right to education of children. The highest annual increase in the area of child rights violations has been recorded in the area of judicial protection rights, as much as 42%. It was mainly complaints about the actions of police officers, social security workers, special custodians, courts, state attorney's office, and the number and nature of complaints suggest the need for further sensitisation or lifelong learning of officials for the rights and needs of children and for the necessary building of greater trust in these systems. The pandemic is expected to affect children's rights to the highest possible level of health. In the area of social rights, the majority of applications were related to maternity and parental benefits, allowance for children, and in the area of economic rights, further increased and difficult problems of long-term and long-term child poverty, which was particularly highlighted, have arisen in the context of the circumstances caused by the epidemic. It is this topic, that is, that this part is related to the previous presentations of some parliamentary representatives, and in this part I must say that the loss of work is indeed a multi-layer risk to the family and children, or there is, of course, a major problem and a long-term and increasing poverty itself among our children. In this sense, the pandemics of the coronary virus and a series of restrictions introduced in order to combat them have increased social inequality, and that is why we have repeatedly stressed the necessary efforts to overcome these inequalities or to reduce the negative effects of poverty on children, especially if we know that almost every fifth child in the Republic lives at risk of poverty. These efforts include, above all, additional investment in staff and the social care centre system, harmonisation of social benefits with the cost of living, and monitoring the impact of existing measures, as well as enabling their children to access pre-school education, including children of unemployed parents, so I expect this to be possible through the measures announced in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but also in the announcement of a new and long-awaited Social Care Act. Most of the life of children of school age who in their home have a computer and internet connection in 2020 moved into a digital environment. During 2020, screens became a place where almost the entire life of children took place. This major change for many children has also had negative effects, and at the same time many parents have not been able to cope under new circumstances. Therefore, children's rights in the digital environment are imposed as a key topic to be further dedicated to, or committed to, competent resolutions and we hope that they will find their place in the new strategy for children's rights. Children faced with high conflict divorces of marriages and interruptions of out-of-marriage parent communities continued to suffer due to an inadequate level of child protection, the quality of response of competent institutions depends on continued and priority investments in the childcare system, and in this important link is the establishment of special family courts whose announcement in 2021 is eagerly expected and welcomed because we believe that the establishment of such courts will lead to better protection of children, speed up decision-making, resolution of parental conflicts, and primarily to enable the inclusion of experts or support and assistance of qualified experts who, along with specialised and educated judges, will make those decisions. The 6th annual national strategy for children's rights expired in 2020. With efforts made by the state in achieving children's rights and raising the quality of their lives in order to achieve a high level of child protection, we propose to the Government that further efforts be made to assess the impact of the existing strategy in order to achieve another step in advance and improve the child protection system. In this part, we also propose greater Council activity for children who are in charge of monitoring the strategy among other things. Family violence continues to destroy and carry the lives of children who confirm the growing black figures of the MUP that can be read about in the report. Due to the conditions of limited movement and isolation in 2020, we witnessed an increase in this violence especially in families that had lived in risky circumstances before. Despite the country's current investment in child protection against domestic violence, we believe that protecting children from domestic violence as well as any other form of violence should become a social priority that will monitor investment in the system of social care, justice and persistent work to change the behaviour of observers of victims of domestic violence. During 2020, we witnessed and an unsatisfactory level of child protection against perpetrators of sexual delicacies. Despite the shifts in criminal law and the announced amendment of the Penal Code, which have adopted a good part of our proposals, the problem remains legal voids, the inadequate application of the rules in practice, the overly mild sanctions, the non-declaration of security measures, the inefficient system of control of the perpetrator. With the aim of a comprehensive approach to the protection of children against sexual violence, we propose to adopt a special regulation on the protection of children from sexual abuse and exploitation that could solve this issue in full and comprehensive terms. We have long warned of the needs of children with behavioral problems and mental health problems that do not receive the support they need which causes additional life problems as they grow up. Despite some efforts, we stress, and especially from the perspective of 2020, which has put a number of unexpected challenges ahead of all of us, how important it is to organise a network of institutions that, according to the principle of equal territorial availability to children and their families, would be provided and psychosocial assistance from mental health professionals. For years, we have been warning of the lack of a horizontal inter-system coordination mechanism, the sharing of responsibility for co-ordinated data collection of coordinated treatment among the national authorities themselves in solving general and individual cases. This problem reflects and affects the area of early childhood intervention that makes it difficult for the youngest children with developmental difficulties and neuro-development risks to prevent and protect children from violence and neglect in families and peer violence, and one example of lack of coordination has been impossible for years to regulate the work of playrooms, birthday homes and adrenaline parks where children spend spare time because none of the resolution ministries wants to assume the obligation to make such a law. From the crisis management process and the coronary epidemic of the virus, we have seen further the importance of co-operation and respecting the views between the different professions in making key decisions concerning children. Although the state’s reaction in many situations was rapid and timely, we have observed that it has not been learned enough to involve children’s opinions in the process of solving everyday problems. We are aware that this is sometimes difficult in a crisis situation that requires a rapid reaction, but if we are constantly building up the mechanisms for participation of children, then it will not be difficult for us to put them into crisis situations either. I hope that, together with our associates, we have recognised the problems during the epidemic and our recommendations have contributed to better decision-making in favour of children. Also, I believe that improving the state of children's rights in Croatia will help us greatly both the opinion and recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child against which the Republic of Croatia is soon defending its 5th and 6. Periodic report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Children. And finally, I want to thank all the experts and institutions that we successfully cooperated with in 2020, and especially my Network of Young Advisors, so to children and young people who have raised the quality of our decisions, recommendations and initiatives with their active participation. I also thank all the employees of their office who in 2020 worked in a responsible and very complex way in the protection of children's rights in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53568	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to MPs and reps representatives, just for the sake of clarity, all the breaks that were requested before were, of course, approved, but based on art. The 293.b that we agreed together we continued the debate, and the relation to other topics, the discussion on other topics that had nothing to do with the agenda, was possible until the minute before they were free speeches or giving views, and I don't understand why you didn't take advantage of you, but you waited for a point, but good. - Mrs. Crescent. Karolina Vidovic Kristo, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53569	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Attorney General, I have addressed you on several occasions regarding the very serious and dramatic charges of sexual abuse of two little girls by the father. You've answered me as if it were objects, not children. You know, you told me your parents were fighting, but the law obliges you to protect your children, not to deal with your parents. After all, the father, in court, admitted in front of the judge that the little girls, his daughter, were physically abused. I've been looking for you, and I'm asking you the same thing right now, and I'm asking you, and it's necessary that children be protected until all circumstances are resolved regarding these very serious and dramatic accusations, and I want to ask you, are you aware that the law obliges you to protect children? You follow, ma'am. Advocates, law or obey Some kind of power? [[Thank you, ma'am. Kristo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53570	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53571	I thank you for this question. Of course I know my legal obligations, and I know what is prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman for children and other laws that regulated my actions. I wouldn't talk about a specific case, and although we're fine in it, even though we took it in time and reacted in the way that we can react, and I said in my presentation what our options are. So we definitely follow, we definitely get some reports, then we can react afterwards. In another way with our recommendations that are actually our only tool, we can engage in solving a specific subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53572	Mr Milanović litre. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53573	He's been injured. 238. This is an insult to the MPs. You have not responded properly, means neither according to the law nor responded in a timely manner. So you have mechanisms to awaken institutions that obviously, as well as you, do not act by the law but obviously listen to some powerful people who stop the whole process of lighting up the case and protecting children. You must be aware that it is your responsibility, and you must be aware of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53574	Thank you very much. You know it's a warning because it was a replica. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53575	Thank you, esteemed.../incomprehensible/... chairman-in-Office, esteemed attorney general, excuse me, counsellor for the children. On October 17th last year, an incident took place at the match, i.e. just before the Dinamo football club and the Gorica football club. Children 3-7 years of age have been drained from shoes, searched, unbuttoned, Dinamo, that's what we, October 18th, sent you an inquiry and pointed to this problem that was only publicly exposed, but such events happen regularly on weekends in a little older child, in a minor. 21st you answered them back that it was a case, which was not and that you were expecting feedback from the MUP that you requested a report, so I'm curious here, on behalf of them and on my behalf, I want to know if you got that report and what it said?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53576	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53577	I thank you for asking, and in fact, I would use my right to answer that in writing. Of course I'm familiar with the event in question, of course I know that we asked the MUP and we got feedback, but given the short time, I'm not able to answer you right now. Of course, it was a major violation of children's rights in a particular situation, and that's exactly the part in which the 42% increase in the number of cases, or applications, which are complaints about the treatment of certain employees, including in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53578	- Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53579	Thank you very much. Your Honorary Attorney, I'm going to ask you a question that you didn't actually get to give me an answer on the board when we did, and it's about the presence of automatic clubs and these gambling and gambling games nearby educational and educational institutions. In March 2020, a new, updated rule where the minimum distance is 500 meters, you asked for 1,000 meters and it would still be okay to respect it, but you also listed in the report, and here, we also have data from the field that, despite that rule, you continue to open near educational institutions casinos and automatic clubs. The Ministry of Finance, as you say, has rejected your recommendation, has we already stepped fat in 2021, has there been any news and will they listen to you? There are interested units of local self-government because it's actually in our best interests to remove children from these actually unfavourable objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53580	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53581	I thank you for asking the question, so only the opening of automatic clubs or casinos and bookshops near educational institutions or was an object of our interest and we put our recommendation there. As you yourself have said the last information I have regarding a specific case also opening such a place near over 200 meters, the Ministry of Finance means it has not yet included, but has said it will take into consideration our proposals when adopting a new rule. So, by March 2020, it was 200 meters, then it was 500 meters, but we certainly believe that it is insufficient and that it is certainly inappropriately related to the children themselves in such situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53582	Mr. Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53583	In your report, you referred to the complaints of individuals or parents to the participation of children in religious content outside the religious program, such as prayer and blessing at the beginning of the school year, and to the blessing of marking the day of bread and the like. I personally don't see any problem in this because we live in a country where we currently have over 92% of the believers, of which 86% are Catholics, and since it's events that take place once or twice a year, I don't see that most people put pressure on a minority or want to change their attitude to religion itself. Well, I'd like to hear your opinion on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53584	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53585	I thank you for the question, so this is one question that was raised during the defence of last year's report. What I said as a lawyer means I have to be and defend all the kids. What's my job is to point out that in schools, all kids have to feel good. However, through complaints or through submission parents, I have learned that in such situations some children who are not otherwise do not go to religious science themselves do not feel comfortable and well. That's exactly why we're, is getting through my report this is going through my answer that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53586	Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53587	Thank you very much, distinguished attorneys of the law are being upgraded, of course, and changed to make them more efficient and functional. That is how this government also set out to amend the Law on Courts that will form family departments at municipal courts in the county centres. How long will your specialized family departments in courts help you in your work and, of course, what is most important will improve the protection of the rights and welfare of the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53588	What I thank for asking is what I have to say is that we're in favour of establishing family courts. This is the first step in establishing one specialised department given the many circumstances that exist. So the first step that I believe is that if it is going to work and work specialized, educated judges because we have a situation that judges do not only deal with this problem but also with a number of others, so it is important that they be highly specialised, that they know about children's rights, or that they also have help from teamed experts outside the legal profession. And here I see improvement for children, but also of course in this context will help us, but it is important to unite all the procedures that apply to one family. So it's also criminal, criminal, family, all the problems that apply to one family that's important to be led in one department, or in a court of law perspective. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53589	Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53590	Thank you. Your Honorary attorney when we talk about children and pandemics, and especially about Roma children, I wonder if you were in the field in one of the Roma settlements and if you were impressed by them. I'm also interested in whether or not your institution provided children with some kind of psychological help in terms of pandemics, lockdowns, earthquakes and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53591	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53592	I appreciate the question. What we couldn't do in 2020 and our legal obligation is given the limitations that existed and the epidemiological measures that were in place that we couldn't go to the places where the children were staying the way we normally worked all the years. In 2020 we weren't in a Roma settlement, but we had to say in relation to the Roma population of children followed the situation and very soon after closing, so after the introduction of lockdown, we made a recommendation to the Ministry of Science and Education concerning children of Roma nationality where we actually proposed to record the situation on the ground as to whether they had all the technology needed to monitor the teaching we also proposed the introduction or translation of the programme on the third and customizing for Roma children. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So we were active and We followed this part of the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53593	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Faith cannot be imposed on anyone, but in a tolerated plural society, of course, the public manifestation of faith must also be made possible for all, regardless of whether it is from the majority, minority population, I think it is simply necessary to do so because of the plurality of our society. But I wanted to ask you something else, according to the UNICEF report, about a billion children were damaged during the pandemic because they had no access to school, and they had no good access to any alternative ones, for example. digital platforms. You mentioned that in Croatia it was well organised, but what will be your recommendations in the future not to come and within Croatia to discrimination because in some areas it is not such good coverage, we hope that there will be no need but also as well as better to include those children who may not have done this, this period is so well used that they will not be easy rejected or discriminated against. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53595	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53596	I appreciate the question. I hope that this year or 2020, even these few months in 2021, will be extremely educational for us and that this crisis will actually bring about some improvement and something that we've all learned. And that's exactly the coverage there are still certain areas where we point out where the coverage may not be so much now with technology or with the devices themselves, but with the signal. So we still point out if we find out, and we find out in direct contact how important it is to give our children access. For all children we know about and give and in general, we have made a general recommendation on how important it is to record the situation so that it does not happen again or that all children have these opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53597	The next replica, respected MP Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53598	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney, the Covida-19 epidemic, has significantly changed the lives of our citizens and has produced a number of child traumas that you have talked about, and will certainly be highlighted in the debates. What you would like to point out in particular, and if children were called to responsibility, let us be responsible for not going to grandmothers, grandparents and older ones, be responsible, do not socialize, pass on the disease to your oldest, and it has indeed created stress situations for them. And they acted responsibly as much as they could with fewer excuses. My question is, are we adults responsible for acting out by refusing vaccination? Are we going to put our children back in a situation with a little fissure, and we all swear that we will do everything for their own good again because of the potential threat of the next wave and the next closure of the additional traumas? Are you ready to call for vaccination?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53599	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53600	I thank you for asking, and my answer is absolutely yes. We are actually already doing so because through a number of our statements, or through numerous addresses, we have expressed our position and we certainly stick to the fact that the vaccine is actually the most important, the most important achievement, and while the results of the vaccines are better than the outbreak of the disease or epidemic itself, and if we can stop the epidemic in that way, then it is extremely important because of our children. If I have time, and I do, yesterday on the council board, we learned from experts that children were at the top, or in the first place, that they had shown responsibility because they were first concerned about infecting adults around them. So it's a great degree of responsibility that the children showed in this The whole situation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53601	Thank you. The next replica, honourable MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53602	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney I would refer to the phenomenon of missing children. By studying your report on this issue, I am concerned about the data of the escapees of children from family homes and institutions measured in hundreds, and even in 12 cases during the escape, the committing of a child's crime has been reported. Understandably, it is difficult to prevent the escape of children in every family, but the question is why nothing is being done in institutions that are within the jurisdiction of the ministry and specifically what has been done about it, the problem. In the past four years, you have been appealing for the establishment of protocols for missing children and Amber alert systems, and as far as I can see from your report, the MUP is not ready for co-operation while other EU countries have introduced this system. Does this mean that our children are less valuable than the other children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53603	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53604	I appreciate the question. So, missing children are certainly a particularly vulnerable group and indeed the number of fugitives from institutions, primarily that number of fugitives is extremely high, or what is important, I can't say that nothing is done but is certainly not done enough and is not done enough, does not work, is not organized or does not work programs to study and individualize any escape because each escape has its own background. Of course, in the case of escape, children are particularly vulnerable and they can and we have, they have been victims of certain criminal offences as well can be their trade or anything. So what we're up for and having the same certain shifts, but it's going very slowly, it's actually this collaboration with the MUP, that's exactly this program that you're and listed themselves. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53605	Next replica, the esteemed representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53606	... Since it's one of the few reports that comes here really completely and with all those elements that we need to have so we can simply read it and we can see what's actually been done. [[Specially enabled.]] What I think is missing is perhaps the results obtained after your activities. So what we got after that, that would be good if we got it, especially in the part of education. You mentioned the Covid crisis itself has also caused the transition to basic school education programmes, the question is how good it was since the lecturers were extremely good quality, the program was high quality, but the materials that had already been processed at school were repeated, after which the material could be difficult to control their knowledge of these children. In particular, it was expressed in high schools and high schools. The question is still do you have a plan to compare the results to In high school this year and back two or three years, let's see what the effects are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53607	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53608	I appreciate the question. By saying that actually children are alone, and I always come from children, they said that teaching live is their priority. What's good is that actually the right of children to education has continued over the past year. So that decision at the time of lockdown is and later means spent and the children themselves were not excluded from education and it is extremely important. It's also important to learn something from all this. What will be the outcome, what will be the results of the knowledge of children themselves, we will see it through a certain period of time. Of course we'll follow that. But what I will especially point out and what is extremely important is that our children remain mentally firm due to all these circumstances and that our children are not mentally affected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53609	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53610	... Here's the esteemed attorney, through your report I haven't actually come across any particular chapter or especially one activity that takes care of gifted children. [[You don't understand.]] So we know we have a lot of problems, and now we're in a pandemic, etc. However, somehow we seem to forget that besides children with developmental difficulties, various forms of violence and other problems there are also gifted children. Thus, the gift is defined as a combination of three groups of qualities according to the basic education and education Regulation. But that rule has been passed for 30 years. In the last 30 years, some new knowledge has been achieved about what it is and how it is defined. The draft new proposal has been in the process since 2014. He hasn't brought himself to this day yet. So do you have any idea when he'll be brought in or do you do something about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53611	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53612	I thank you for this question and, in fact, for what you've noticed, it may indeed not have been dedicated in the past year in the light of all the other circumstances of attention as we have actually devoted to our report each year. Of course, we will follow further, and given that the situation hopes to normalise itself, that it will normalise itself, and that we will remind ourselves again or our own recommendations to give this Regulation to be adopted as soon as possible. Of course, it is a special group of children who also require or deserve special attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53613	The next replica of the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53614	Thank you. My colleague Puljak was a little ahead of me with the subject. But I would also refer to part of your report on children's educational rights. Excuse me. Most of that part of the report rightly refers to children with developmental difficulties. However, we all know that as children with special needs, Croatian law defines both gifted children and is systematically ignored. You yourself did not mention them too much in this report except in that part of your office in Split where a workshop was held. It is important to note that schools have certain obligations legally defined to those children. However, they are not systematically implemented. It depends solely on the will and engagement of teachers and teachers. In your recommendations I have found only one such general who says in relation to and dealing with students to respect their individual needs and specificities. However, this is not directly referred to as gift. We're here when it comes to budgeting, we've been giving a few amendments to make a budget reference to these kids. However, there is no such thing as I'm curious to know what specific instructions you're going to make with those kids in the future... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53615	The esteemed attorney. Please, let's just stick to the time. We'll be here tonight by midnight if we keep it that way. Here's your esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53616	I appreciate the question. Here's my previous answer can be applied in some way to this part. So certainly, if the situation and now, let's believe that it has calmed down a little bit, special attention will be given to that group of children again, and how much is in our ability, how much is our power actually to try to re-sensitize all the competent bodies so that these children are given adequate care and be adequately taken care of. She deserves it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53617	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53618	Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. Not so long ago, ten years ago, our psychiatrists in KBC hospitals were dealing with a problem of alcoholism or psychiatric illness in adults, but also in children. Today in Croatia 70% of our psychiatrists deal with children's addiction to games, betting and such modern expressions of modern society. I'm interested in what you've done specifically, not to reread the same report next year, where you're in principle referring to you being against it and writing various statements and requests? What are you really willing to do to get Croatian children out of hell of gambling addiction and sporting events where they are expected to develop their brain in a way that can be achieved in a easy way without effort?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53619	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53620	I appreciate the question. So this we return the topic to those rights of children in the digital environment, that is, one of the negative sides of that digital environment is precisely an addiction which, unfortunately, is a growing number of children present at us, related to video games, related to the use of the Internet, and also to various social networks. In that part, I think it is extremely important, as I said in the opening address not only in the child rights strategy itself, but it is also important to sensitize or work on sensitizing the public or adult meaning parents that actually lead to this, or can lead to their non-limits, can bring a child into the situation itself to become dependent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53621	Thank you. My colleague, Vrkljan, has done some damage to his rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53622	Thank you for having responded, but you haven't given the right answer to what I expected, so based on that I invite you to probably in another situation, today you have no more opportunity to respond to the strategy of your work so that you have results because everything you miss through your system where you weren't successful at the end comes to a repressive system where these people and young children and these young people end up in crime.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53623	Thank you. My colleague Vrkljan and you know it was a replica, and it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. The next replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53624	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor's Attorney General. Like you said, and we all know it's 2020. is the period during which children have more than ever stayed next to the Internet, with their computers and online. In your report, you have processed different categories of children, different categories of protection of their rights, my question to you, what can we all do to protect our children, the children of Parliamentarians, State Secretary, Minister, Mayor, and all other public affairs people? In fact, we know very well if any of our names are published, if anything is done or not even has to be done by our name, but by the party we belong to, if not under our name, then under the false profile, they will write ugly words, the ugliest desires for our children's future, curses, etc. As you said, you have to protect all the children, so here's what we can do except give up this job to.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53625	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53626	I appreciate the question. Yes, it represents and it was actually one of the issues and topics that we were dealing with, of course that child protection, the protection of all children and the protection of children of parents who are engaged in a public call or who are public persons is quite worrying in some situations in our society. We call on the media, we call on the competent agency to be professional and to contribute to the protection of children because it is really those who should refuse or should not publish such information, that is, for children, extremely harmful information, it is also harmful for adults. So it's the media that should be working professionally in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53627	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative of Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53628	Your Honor's Attorney General. In the Law on Advocates for Children, Art. You have the possibility to submit a special report in cases where children's rights are at risk at a special level and in a large extent. So if it didn't happen in the pandemic corona, I don't know when it is or when a special report will be filed if it doesn't now. On page 263 of your report, which I have read in detail, you are, of course, touching this problem, but it has been scattered in different categories. I believe that this should have been united in a special report that you should have submitted to the Parliament. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53629	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53630	I appreciate the question. I must admit that we discussed this part in detail within the office and thought about submitting a special report, which we did not decide on that variant, and that is precisely why, as I said more than 40% of this report refers to that part. We did not submit a special report for the reason that we were thinking about it before the end of the year when this report was already needed to be written, so we decided on a variant of the united, i.e. in this main report of the isolated areas concerned, and I think this was very transparent in this way. Namely, what was in a special report, so as you quoted the law, if there are if children's rights are clearly at stake or if any of the systems It's not working. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53631	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53632	... prevents the convicted perpetrators from contacting their children again and asking that data on conviction be kept permanently, we will also have a debate on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I'm curious about this cooperation, how much really, and we know how much of your recommendations are respected by other institutions, is it better, is now our chance to work and supplement and amend the Penal Code to make some of your recommendations, not to say and to make demands into the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53633	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53634	I appreciate the question. Yes, what I emphasized in the opening part, I think that the adoption of a regulation that would have a comprehensive and comprehensive access to the protection of children from sexual violence would be extremely significant. Some of our proposals in amendments to criminal law have been accepted. What I must stress is that criminal legislation is not the only area regulated by this matter but there are some other separate laws in which it is included, and that is why we do not see why it would not be possible to cover it with one regulation. What would be extremely important in the amendments to criminal legislation in this problem, this is about security measures, or precautions that are now regulated, in my opinion, in an inadequate way, or they should even grow up to be pronounced, would be good for our judicial staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53635	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53636	Thank you very much, esteemed Attorney General. I think that the Network of Young Advisors is important for your contact with children and young people because only in fact in contact and communication with them can we know what is important to them, what are their problems, what they want, etc. I want to know how many kids are applying to a competition for members of the Network? Are you satisfied with this figure and may you be planning any marketing promotions to animate children to apply for the competition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53637	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53638	I appreciate the question. Here, today is the last day that expires to apply for a tender to become young members of the Network of Young Advisors. I have to say I don't know what number of applications he made today during the day and during yesterday, but there were more than 50 applications, so, I think the kids are showing interest. We tried, I was in all the places where I came into contact with children, and it was mostly through online meetings with the D.A. during the past and this year, we also published in the media, meaning it was published in daily newspapers, but also in the school newspapers, so we tried, and we also met with the principal of primary and secondary schools, meaning through their bodies to sensitize children to report for this, in fact extremely important and for us a very important contribution that children give to our work or work of the Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53639	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Thank you, ma'am. Attorney General. No, I don't. I will open the debate then and the first one will speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53640	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed attorneys, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. This report that we're talking about today is about the year that didn't happen for our lives. The coronavirus pandemic has taken measures that have never been seen before, and they have undoubtedly affected the youngest, or children. Since the focus of the whole pandemic story was mostly older people who hit the crown more strongly, children went under the radar, that is, how they handle the pandemic and the measures that were in place. In previous debates over the crown and children, the focus was mainly on school issues, or on how children will attend school and how their knowledge will be valued. It is undeniable that the issue of attending school in the crown is an important topic, but it is not alone at all because the emergence of the virus and the closure of society have raised other issues important for the psychological health of children during the pandemic. In extremely stressful situations such as pandemics, there is an extremely difficult psychological burden, especially for children. The sudden closure of institutions and several weeks of banning contact with friends and educators is incomprehensible, and for some the traumatic loss of important persons with whom the child is connected. The second moment that the media and society mainly dealt with children was in the crown that children were potentially easier carriers and the question was how children could be taken care of so as not to be infected by grandparents or that their mom and dad could continue to work on them. Children and youth have been viewed in the decision-making processes so far as not as equal persons but as potential carriers of the virus. For children from troubled family relationships, such an approach can be not only unfair but fatal. This approach must be learned to avoid further similar situations, whether it is a further course of the coronary virus pandemic or other similar or less similar occurrences in the future. I'd further like to look back a little bit more on your report on parts of the Roma community. You yourself notice that the situation of Roma children is generally more complex or requires more investment than other children, both around pandemic conditions, which I will talk about a little later, around general points. For example, there is still discrimination against Roma children by some foster families who do not want to accept the accommodation of children of Roma origin. I am pleased that you find such an attitude totally unacceptable and incompatible with their further household activities. You have also singled out a case of application relating to primary school education of Roma national minority children, which has been closely monitored by the media. It refers to the denial of a school meal for several first - grade students in a primary school whose parents had a debt to a school diet. Although the complaint initially showed that the children were members of the Roma national minority, this was not confirmed in the follow-up, but doubts were also confirmed about the discrimination of children based on property status and inspection controls identified the school's failures. Here I would like to say, unconnected with the fact that it has not been found to be Roma children, that I consider such behaviour as a teacher inadmissible regardless of whose children it is. I also believe that for all children in primary schools, regardless of their social status, diet should be free of charge. If the local self-government unit cannot provide a diet for all children, it should at least provide for children from 1st to 4th grade because these children are too sensitive and too small to see differences. In order to avoid situations like those mentioned, we must not politicise on this matter but ensure that children receive a diet. Otherwise, although the total number of applications in this area has decreased and more than 50% of the waste on children of Roma origin remains. Now I'd like to go back to the question of education during the crown. Many Roma families in Croatia continue to live in extremely unfavourable living conditions. Roma settlements are often isolated with bad or no infrastructure, poor sewerage system, somewhere without electricity and drinking water. It is no wonder, therefore, how you say that the exercise of distance teaching for Roma children has intensified all existing specificities and challenges that have existed so far in the education of Roma. Speaking of this topic, I don't know how long you've been as a lawyer in your four-year term in the field in Roma settlements, if you need me to help you organize visits and visit several Roma settlements together, not only to see the position of these children but also to get more direct acquainted with the situation in the settlements, to see for yourself your own eyes, and not to get information just from the words of other people. It is necessary to make sure that digital teaching does not deepen inequalities among children, this transition poses a greater risk for students of less knowledge than for students who have fewer educational opportunities outside school, which is often the case with Roma students. At the same time, Roma parents themselves are often unable to help children learn and master the teaching material that is being processed in a remote school because of a lower level of education and lack of knowledge of Croatian language. Here I must also look back on the bad practice of HRT, or their unadjustment to the School's programmes at the Third School for Roma Students and the lack of content that would allow Roma students to adopt the Croatian language additionally if they do not yet know or are not familiar with it. At the same time, many Roma children do not have access to the Internet as well as a personal computer, laptop, or tablets, and sometimes they do not have electricity in their homes. In this context, it should be said that only 12.2% of Roma families have access to fixed services and the Internet, which is significant below national average and which suggests that the largest number of Roma households does not have classical personal computers and unlimited internet access for video tracking and other content important in the educational process. He should not be too smart to conclude that the crisis has had a particularly unfavourable impact on the lives of children in Roma settlements and that there must be much work to be done. Many Roma families do not have minimum conditions for the use of tablets or for the monitoring of teaching material via national television because they do not have a resolved infrastructure for access to electricity and Internet use, things that most people understand and do not have to deal with specifically for them, such as clean water, soap, disinfectants or facial masks for many Roma, or their children, are a challenge to obtain. I must commend certain telecommunications service providers who donated the equipment needed to access mobile internet children in general, and especially for the national fewer at the Ministry of Science and Education, which in collaboration with the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia "Kali SARA" funded the purchase of around 130 tablets with internet access to reduce the problem of inequality or lack of the possibility of monitoring online teaching. I am pleased to see that a certain part of the information should be adapted to a language close to Roma children. In addition to language, there were other challenges in providing pills for Roma students and free access to the Internet household with children, supporting Roma families who have no experience of using the Internet and information equipment. Adaptation of the School's HRT programme in the Third for Roma students of classroom classes and inclusion of content for additional learning of Croatian language. All of this so far shows once again that the Roma community generally has specific needs and that this is about things that other communities do not recognize as a priority for the simple reason that they already have. This is often not the case with the Roma, and many of them, or their children, need basic things. All this makes a demanding and challenging struggle to improve the Roma community which I have been actively doing for more than two decades, the struggle is that it requires a lot of denial, effort, a lot of meetings and many trips, but the end of the special pleasure is to see children who have managed to school and progress and come out of poverty growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53641	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be the Mosta, and the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53642	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In a preliminary manner, I can say what we say whenever it comes to the lawyer's reports, which is that we believe that these offices should be united in a human rights defender's office that will now be covered by special defences. I will also repeat that I believe that these offices are too bulky in this case is about 20 employees and that they spend too much public money on results that do not correspond to spent funds and so many employees. In this case, it's $5.5 million. The attorney general for the children has been recognized in public. By reading these 263 stations, we can see that people have actually appeared with all kinds of topics I would say as parents, that there is no theme that has concerned me, and that someone has not already reported to the attorney, that it is not listed here. However, the purpose of this office is not only to collect complaints of people and report by it and then wash your conscience, here we have sent some sort of a proposal or representation and now the thing remains on it, but the purpose of this office is that it works more specifically to improve the lives and rights of children in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to reverse the order of this exhibit a little bit, and I'm going to go back to what I mentioned in the replica, which is that I expected the D.A. to be in accordance with Article 18(2). A special report on the state of children's rights in Croatia in the context of the pandemic crown. This is the first time in Croatian history, we had, our generation remembers the tragic experience of the Homeland War where more than 400 children were killed and many children were wounded, they spent years in shelters, but this is the first case where there is no child in Croatia that is not in 2020, and this continues in this year in one way or another limited rights. Limited, and in many cases broken rights. This is indeed an unprecedented situation and we had to get a special report on the state of children's rights in Croatia in the context of the pandemic corona. I don't know why, I don't understand why, why we didn't get it, I can only express hope that it might appear, appear in the fall. And what's going on? Unfortunately, the consequences will be medium-term and long-term what has already been registered, let's say, if we take data from the MUP, it is that in Croatia children were more physically abused and used more for pornography in 2020, and that there were fewer measures being implemented previously. The concrete exploitation of children for pornography has increased by as much as 30% compared to 2019, and there has been an increase in physical injury to children and families from 50% compared to the year before. However, what is further concerned about the system is that the system has broken down at the time of the pandemic, so it is not implementing a decision to protect the welfare of the child, which is Article 173. The penal code increased by 81%, 81%, and the violation of the child's rights by 33%. So this is something that happened in the short term, and the consequences of this incarceration, the isolation of children, and of the school and the peers are just about to show up. Now, the prosecutor states in the report a partial quote of the MUP statistics, and I quote, we can say in conclusion that at the state level, the importance of comprehensive action to prevent violence and neglect of children in the family is recognised, however, much more efforts need to be made to achieve co-operation and coordinated action by individual resolutions key to achieving better protection of victims of domestic violence. In April of last year, the Ombudsman also made a recommendation on making guidelines for child protection against violence and neglect at the time of the Covid-19 epidemic, but with this recommendation, it was implemented, as implemented. How do I quote the recognition of the importance of comprehensive action manifesting itself? Is that what someone says here I have recognized and what now or perhaps so that we have one in a series of zom meetings or on-line conferences that are often impervious titles like I quote the guidelines of the European Strategy to combat the consequences of Covida-19 on members of the younger age. In particular, if the action is listed as comprehensive, it should not be seen in concrete preventive measures, which have shown the effectiveness of the figures that would indicate a reduction or at least stagnation of violence against children, which is not the case. So it is not enough to make a recommendation and say here I have done my job and calmed my conscience but should be persistent and insist upon its implementation. Also, somewhere along the way, the M.O.P.'s media campaign behind the door was called just when it was needed most, it needs to be reactivated. In some of the situations where the lawyer was making recommendations, and there was deafness, I don't know if we have one commercial television that was repeated when teletext turned on we have some pornographic content so nothing or this happened, these cases which were warned by a colleague representative of the distance of casinos, bookshops, automatic clubs from schools and other educational institutions. And now nothing's going on, but you have to keep going, you have to do it again. I wish I'd been as a parliamentary representative and we at our club and all the other club advocates got from the attorney general a boost. Here, look, this problem hasn't been solved yet, please indicate, give a free speech, start the initiative. In this regard, I lacked more intense contact and cooperation and communication with the attorney general. About the state, I repeat, these are only the first consequences, and unfortunately it will be harder to come up with a speaking situation of mental health of children that we at the MOST Club were first talking about. I refer to the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education, which conducted 5 major remote teaching studies in the school year 2019/20. Two were focused on graduates, and 3 were on teachers and parents in primary schools. And now the results are devastating. 90% of graduates said that their inability to communicate directly with teachers made it difficult to master materials, 80% of them had difficulty organising time conditions at a distance, 90%, 90% had difficulty with concentration, 75% said teaching takes far more effort than usual teaching. 80% of parents said that remote teaching requires a lot of effort from them, and now few parents are reschooling under the old days and doing children's tasks. One problem that has arisen before, and we have to deal with this is one problem of extreme pressure, success in children in the last grades of primary school, where this career anxiety is already felt, fear that because of hyperinflation, it is also different ways of collecting points for enrollment in high school that are lawfully allowed, and very often morally questionable, children are afraid that they will not enter, say, the desired gymnasium. Then they have to get stuck faster, higher, stronger, need to be awake, need to be stimulated, that's, especially worse under these conditions of online teaching and coronary epidemics, and then what do children resort to? We're creating more and more addicts on energy stimuli, these are energy drinks mentioned in the report, so on. Cognitive enhancers in the west are already partly common, and spread among our children. Online teaching has strengthened children's dependence on cell phones and other electronic devices. I'm going to mention to the end of that statement that during last year's lockdown, as many as 2.4% of our graduates said they had suicidal thoughts, 2.4%. It's about research on over 300 young people. 90%, over 90% of graduates had difficulty with concentration, more than half had trouble sleeping. These are all data that point to serious psychological problems of young people who are already manifesting themselves, and I will repeat for the third time, unfortunately, the consequences will only be seen next year, all of this that has happened. These, data published on the NCVVO sites and sent to the resolution ministry, the ministry has never reacted. What is waiting for these thoughts to go into concrete action? Here, these are the reasons why I think we had to get a special report on the state of children in the context of the coronary pandemic and hope that if we didn't get it now, we'd get it at least in the fall. Some other aspects later in the individual speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53643	The next club of MPs will be the green-left bloc, and speeches will be respected by Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53644	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Ombudsman for children with co-workers, state secretary, secretary of state. We have before us a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children and there is also an indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government's report assesses detailed and informative, but proposes to be developed, quote, in a shorter format for better transparency of the results achieved. That obvious, i.e. The government's opinion covers only some areas of children's lives, with special reference to the reception of children on the move, children without escort, the inclusion of children in search of international protection, it seems to me, a lot of defence because of public pressure around pushback migrants who certainly travel with their children, here yesterday we had a case of a single mother from Iran with two minor children, a girl today is 8 years old, and four years are on the road and we saw that over 20 times they were returned from Croatia even though they were looking for their place under the sun in Croatia. So, the government was obvious, but also, seeking to reduce the scope of the report itself, and it did not show itself to some extremely significant areas which were dealt with by the Ombudsman, which are, in particular, non-violence against children, partly just related to sexual abuse, which we should and should be able to regulate both the changes and the supplements of the KZ, partly to education, but not enough to health, child poverty or leisure. I hope that this lack of clearness for these areas and the silent acceptance of an opinion on the activities of the Ombudsman, and the activities to improve the position and rights of children, and that this is to leave out the obvious or what is called, opinions, these topics or areas, and the answers to these suggestions for improvements, that it tells us in fact that the Ombudsman has done her job well, otherwise it would be worrying. As we know, although we hear here today from colleagues who do not understand that the Ombudsman has only one tool, and that the other is in the government and the institutions, and also on us parliamentary representatives, which is that he can warn, that he can propose, that he can make recommendations to remove the problem, so the importance of accepting or responding to recommendations as one tool above all is exclusively aimed at improving the quality of life of children, and not just in response to the Government calling on a legal framework that a recommendation should be addressed. Perhaps we should all consider setting up a control mechanism to monitor the implementation of the proposal and the recommendations. Here we keep talking about what the results are, the results can only be the ones that the Ombudsman herself has, which is making recommendations. Otherwise, many recommendations, and it is visible from the Report, we have seen this with other lawyers who only have this tool of recommendation, are prescribed many recommendations from year to year without any progress on ensuring their implementation. It should be pointed out that the office is in the '20s. received 1923 applications, complaints, enquiries and requests related to the violation of individual rights of children, representing an annual growth of 10%, therefore also counting on the pandemic, of course some more than 500 cases from the earlier period were left. Maximum number of rights violations reported in the '20s. refers to the personal rights of children and of course, followed by the rights related to children and education and children and health, and we have seen how they were also connected because of the very pandemic of Covida-19. What's interesting is seeing who talks to the attorney general most often. These are, of course, parents of children, and these are mostly mothers in 715 cases, and fathers in 300 such equal parenting. You should say of course that and the common parents are over 113 I think the cases together have filed a report. However, what is important is to say that children themselves are reporting, and I think that we should encourage it. It's not a lot of cases, but I think kids today... I think they know what their rights are and how they can report themselves. [[You don't understand.]] What is good and it is evident that the Ombudsman is working with other institutions and very often the State Inspectorate informs of violations of rights, so police certainly police reports from violence against children to I do not know how to warn about the loss of children in traffic. There were 44 cases like that. So if we look at what's extremely important is the synergy of different institutions, but then here we hear what the lawyer can do all the time. In addition to the recommendations and requests, and perhaps control of what is with these recommendations, it worries that, based on all these references to the recommendations she has made, and from that we have heard here, there have indeed been 40 recommendations related to the consequences of Covid-19 and the pandemic control measures, we need to be concerned about the fact that only every other recommendation has been accepted. So maybe we here should think about some control mechanism, some institute that we are the body that might need to see why institutions don't respond. Because it worries 13%, so 13% have unaccepted recommendations. So there's no evidence of them. So we don't know if they might be in the process. So maybe when we're talking about other lawyers here, which is the mechanism, which would be our role to make sure that these recommendations don't stay recommendations, or that these recommendations, so we only have here every six recommendations by the end of the year and they've been fully implemented every six. And then we talk about improving the position and rights of children. The areas for which the government should have given not only an opinion, as we have in favour of the opinion, but also a guideline to the institutions. We think the government has that power if there's no lawyer, if there's no Parliament, and that's the instructions and the Ministry of Social Welfare, the Ministry of Education. This is where we talked about violation of the rights related to education of children. So, in the next period, we ourselves know that we need to find some new solutions how to deal with the consequences of closing whether lockdown, isolation and accounting, it is even more important for us that I haven't heard that my colleague talked about easing the cause of inequality among the children caused by Covid and the increase in child poverty here should talk about it, because a large part of the parents lost their job during the pandemic or was only minimally paid as our workers who we supported an hour ago who have a minimum of 3,000 and 400 kuna. And imagine how such a woman can support her children, one or two children or more children as many as there are. It is indeed a duty for the Government and the institution to take care of vulnerable groups such as children with developmental difficulties, children located in institutions, children and hospital treatment, children in homes for carefree children, children who are in criminal correctional institutions, and to identify children who really live at high risk of domestic violence. Not just at risk, but living in violent families. Violence from children all forms and peer violence, including bulling and violence on the Internet where any words deserve special attention. Also there were speeches just near the bookies, automatic clubs really are more than worried and can't prevent it from being asked by a lawyer. There are likely mechanisms as well as near educational institutions have been banned and why inspectorates exist, etc. I wanted to isolate another problem that hasn't been solved in years. I've only got 17 seconds, and she's referring to the D.A. writing again and again recommendations that religious science be at the beginning or at the end of the daily schedule of hours. In the event that this is not possible, the school should take care of the children properly for the time being. Other kids and we're looking for alternative classes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53645	Thank you. The next will be the House Movement Representatives' Club, and a respected representative, Vesna Vucilović, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53646	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, esteemed Ombudsman, respected state secretary with associates. It's already this number of secretary of state telling us how complex the problem is that the attorney for children is dealing with, because it includes how much we see four ministries. It is not simple and therefore this report is also very extensive, detailed and simple and cannot be different, although the Ombudsman has made a summary if I am not mistaken, which in one small scale presents the work of the Ombudsman. Last year she was burdened with problems, extremely demanding. The problems are that none of us expected. In this regard, she was both demanding and challenging for the work of the Ombudsman for children. One part of the work on the ground was difficult, disabled due to epidemiological measures, but of course it did not mean that there was no activity, so there were a large number of reports of 10% more complaints, complaints, enquiries and requests for infringement of individual rights of children than in 2019. As my colleagues have already spoken before me, 72 recommendations, warnings and statements have been made to support more effective protection of children's rights and concerns the fact that 40% of the recommendations have been related to the impact of the virus's coronary and its control measures on the various areas of child's rights. And as they said before me, what really concerns me is the fact that only every other recommendation has been accepted, and only every six recommendations have been fully implemented by the end of the year. What is definitely so is the fact that epidemiological measures have left consequences for children. In particular, certain groups of children have been severely affected. The distance teaching has further made it difficult to exercise the right to education for children who did not have the conditions for online teaching, and children with developmental difficulties have lost a number of services they receive in special institutions, such as logod services, physiotherapist, working therapist, psychosocial support, etc. Perhaps what's most important for our children's development, they lost their association with their friends during the first closure. I must stress that they were particularly threatened by children who stayed in hospitals and who were in hospitals during the epidemic because they were completely separated from their families at the moment their support and comfort were needed most. So I must declare that both as a mother and as a parliamentary representative that a 15-minute rule with a child in the hospital is something that is personally totally unacceptable to me. It all left a mark on our children. Yesterday we had a thematic session together of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the subject of mental health of children and I really think it was a quality session, we had a number of scientists, experts from this area who presented scientific research that was conducted in the meantime, and I'm going to give you just some figures that show you how much mental health our children have damaged during this epidemic. What experts point out is an increase in aggression, self-aggression, behavioral disturbances, eating disorders, increased exposure to inappropriate content on the Internet, 20% of primary school children have problems sleeping, and in high school students, this figure is also higher and is 38% higher. In the past year, 30% more crimes have been reported against the child, child abuse and child neglect, sexual abuse, and domestic violence. All of this points to the fact that the epidemic, but also the way to fight the epidemic, has left the consequences of our children's mental health, the problems exist, we can't close our eyes in front of them, but we need to start solving them. What we have learned so far is that online teaching is not and cannot be an adequate substitute for teaching at school and should only be used in exceptional situations when it is really necessary. I must therefore stress that I appreciate the ministry's efforts to continue teaching in schools. In doing so, I must also refer to assistants in teaching who earn even less than 3,400 kuna and have unresolved status, and during the epidemic and incarceration it was even more complicated so that in some cases they were even prevented from working with children, making it difficult for children with special needs to participate in the educational process. The problem that is evident is the lack of experts, especially in smaller areas, and it is important to make the most of all the resources available to us through EU funds to have psychologists in all schools that will help, which will act preventively, but also help teachers and teachers identify problems in children. In particular, I must stress that in high schools we have insufficient professional services, and research shows that just three and four classes are the most endangered group. I will point out another very important fact relating to extracurricular activities, namely the civil protection post last year, and this year has made different decisions concerning the ban on training and sports activities of children, as well as the use of sports infrastructure. The most affected were gym sports and clubs that do not have their own space. Top athletes were allowed training, but did members of headquarters ever wonder that these top athletes were once children who trained in school halls. Our children made it a good part of last year disabled and, as the D.A. says, they were put on hold. The fact is that children in some way lost one year of life because they lived in circumstances that are all just not normal. They had to adapt in a very short time to the new circumstances, and they were expected to accept all measures and restrictions without discussion, even calling them super-supervisors of the virus. The media played their part as usual, not thinking at any time how a child who listens to television for days is a source of infection and how it can endanger the health of his loved ones and is part of their responsibility. What is expected of all of us is still little more than statistics, children are not just numbers in the tables that we will look at, comment on and move on. It is necessary until the beginning of the next school year to learn lessons from the experience so far, to continue with what was good and to make adjustments that were necessary. I have to say, the damage is done, it's up to us to resuscitate her, not in a month, a year or five, because it's gonna be too late. Children need help today, and it is our responsibility to help them. It is necessary both inter-resor and cross-sectoral cooperation, the problems are not simple, but they are the only thing that we all need to start working together to solve these problems that I think we've all seen and that we all agree on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53647	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS in the name of the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53648	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, esteemed attorneys with associates, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As well as other attorneys in their 2020 reports, And the lawyer for the children tells us what was clear and according to common sense last year was completely abnormal. Because of the crown and the earthquake, everyone suffered, and most of all the most vulnerable. Last week we discussed the problems of people with disabilities now came to order children and of course we have a certain amount of understanding that neither the crown nor the earthquakes could have been predicted, but if we are able to be a smart state then the only possibility of learning something is to see how our institutions protect and deal with those most vulnerable members of our society and how they operate in extraordinary situations. What we can unfortunately conclude is that they don't work well, they work badly. There can neither be any lighter nor more diplomatic. Very often they function badly when they are not in extraordinary situations and circumstances, let alone now. The Ombudsman's report for children tells us similar things as were previous reports by other attorneys, and this is a problem of violation of the right is more, the application is more, and the institutions were more difficult, accessible or completely unavailable. It has also proved that we lack knowledge, abilities, but often people to face serious challenges. Those who so far have barely been patched up have now completely bounced off into uselessness. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. The D.A.'s office received 10% more applications than in the year before, the Ombudsman calls it a significant increase in what I have And we do read that in the report, but also in the public statements of the Ombudsman on the subject of children and young people and their mental health during and after the pandemic. It sounds sad, but it is a well-hit sentence that the epidemic and earthquake of many children and young people stole the carelessness of growing up, but also denied basic needs such as home security, association with peers, an outdoor game, going to school or hugs with grandparents. The situation was not normal at all, and our institutions and individuals at the top of the state reacted badly, slowly, stupidly. So the education minister sheretically takes his hand off to graduates who, with no climate masks at the peak of stress in their young lives after a year and a half completely abnormal education, collapses writing prom. Schools do not have nearly enough experts, primarily psychologists, hundreds and hundreds of students are often just one psychologist. What can he do in a situation like this? Unfortunately, nothing. Young people simply didn't understand or want to hear them, when they went out to the streets or parks to jump out of their covid prisons where they spent their best years, they were declared fools, thoughtless, disturbed, terrorists, and various other terms. But without much desire and will to help them get through this abnormal time, to talk to them, to hear and understand them. Croatian authorities, HDZ authorities and services that they have created and otherwise are not willing to listen to anything or anyone, unfortunately they do not listen to the Ombudsman for children. And I will refer to the recommendations and those recommendations that have been adopted. Therefore, of the 72 recommendations made by the Ombudsman, 38 of them were accepted, of which only 12, 3 were fully implemented in part, and 2 were in the process. That means that about 50% is accepted, and only every sixth is realized. So it's not like the institutions have broken apart from desire and will, to accept recommendations. It's an experience that other attorneys share with us in their reports. There is equally in the recommendations all the time one law that is mentioned, it is the Law on Social Welfare. Every time we get a lawyer's report, no matter what it is, it's about making a new Social Care Act, and it's still somewhere in the bandages or in some drawers. One of the recommendations that is repeated for what time and in this Report is marked by another color to better see is the assignment of a new OIB for adopted children for which the Ombudsman writes, quote: "There remains a problem for children adopted before the entry into force of the applicable Family Law." I know this problem very well. In my previous assembly, I have made a proposal to allow the change of the OIB to be made possible to adopted children before the entry into force of the new Family Law. I made an addition to the OIB Act, so the government first told me that it would be dealt with through the Family Law. So don't be lazy to help her and make it easier for me to refer to the procedure and supplement the Family Law on the subject. Of course, the government refused with that typical and uninterested and boastful sentence that the government would solve it completely. Of course she didn't solve it completely, she didn't solve it at all. In this conference, I again sent a proposal to the procedure and again the government had something similar uninterested, insensitive, and actually rude to answer. I say rudely because it's a very simple proposal, a simple change that is advocated by just about all the experts on the question of rights to children... The adoptions, and so is the guardian for the children. [[You don't understand.]] But they don't care. They'll handle it completely. To be a little sarcastic, when? When the conditions are met. Because of these complete solutions of HDZ governments, we are, in all likelihood, the last in the European Union except for the number of dead by Covid, we are among the leaders. But I'm gonna be back on the report for the last few minutes. The Ombudsman also warns us that the difficulties of foster families and children without adequate parental care are the same as previous years, but more pronounced. It tells us that there are not enough foster families, lack of professional foster parents, lack of foster parents in urban areas. In particular, foster parents are educated to care for children with behavioral disorders and children with physical and mental problems. There is not enough education for foster parents, nor support, and their age and education structure is unfavourable, and what the HDZ Government has been doing in that time is just a little reminiscing. The HDZ Government has chosen to withdraw by court and again regret the decisions of the Administrative and Higher Administrative Court that a couple who has wanted to do so for years is seeking and has the right to have the status of foster parents. All these people are gonna do is make the same sex couple not be able to foster a child by courting who knows whom, I guess, their friend Orban. And during that time, children without parents should sit in homes and welfare centers. Especially interesting are 26 cases in which the children reported themselves to the Ombudsman. Although it is not a large number, it is good for children to appear on their own, and it seems to me that this is something that should still be encouraged. It is good to study these cases to see what children view as the most serious violation of their rights. They were concerned about how the organisation would continue during the epidemic to affect the state's graduation and enrolment in the university, as well as the unfair evaluation and unprofessional behaviour of teachers. Training especially under the conditions of the crown was one of the great sources of problems. In connection with this, a separate problem has also arisen that children often face. Inability or insufficient participation in making decisions directly concerned them. It is a problem that young people face in all societies and forever, but our responsibility is to re-analyze and seek solutions over and over again. Although I have to admit in this and this present Croatia, I am not very optimistic. But hope always dies last. And lastly, I have to say that Club Center and Voice will support this exhaustive, good report that actually gives a really great cut of all that and those difficulties that were in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53649	The next Club of Representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns, and time will be shared by respected representatives Milanović litre and Pavliček. First respected representative Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53650	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected attorneys, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are once again concerned with the influence of the coronary virus on our lives, society, and the environment, or in this report, the Ombudsman weighs his influence on our children. During 2020 our rights and rights of our children were compromised, even I would say taken away at certain times and situations under the pretext of protecting us and our loved ones. The Croatian authorities were blindly following the measures of the other EU member states in fear of the coming virus without the idea that the profession should decide on these same measures. Healthy people under the coercion of state institutions and state appliances under the management stick of a political body called the Civil Protection Staff have put healthy people in quarantine without any evidence that lockdown will be effective and bring the expected results. Like all children, they were also affected by headquarters measures. Our two-year-old son who is just moving into life and who has just begun to understand the world around him life under masks, the ban on playing in the park next to our building and the whole day's stay in the apartment have become a normal way of life which is certainly not good for his development especially at such an early age. With the coronary crisis, we've had two major earthquakes. The first one in Zagreb on 22 March and Sisak-Moslavina 9 months later, where several tens of thousands of family homes died, making life of Croatian children more difficult. This year was indeed one of the most challenging in children's lives, whether it was education, family, their social lives, or a series of rights that had been denied in the past year. About most of this report, Attorney General Pirnat Dragicevic can agree, but there are several key topics and events in my opinion that I want to draw attention to, which I do not think the Ombudsman has devoted enough time and effort to. The first is the passivity after the tragic event of the girl's death during the Zagreb earthquake and inappropriate comments by the ruling powers. At the moment of national tragedy and grief for the deceased girl, the sick minds who are here today do not sit here in the assembly consider it appropriate to count the blood cells of her parents, and your answer to that was that we should not raise tensions at that time and that we must allow parents time to grieve without encouraging tension and conflict which is normal, understandable and common sense for all of us except for those who live on such stories and who continued with the same rhetoric and arguments 9 months later when they once again went to count blood cells after the earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslavina County. I believe that, as with other numerous examples of your report, you should have mentioned such inappropriate comments that lead to further division in Croatia and often lead children to examine themselves and their families. Another example I would like to mention, which happens every weekend throughout Croatia, came to the public's attention after 17 October of last year when entering Maksimir Stadium before the match Dinam and Gorica. Before entering the headquarters stadium, the directors systematically and without exception examined the children aged 3 to 7 years, leaving their shoes and touching them on the body with their clothes unbuttoned. As I have already mentioned, we have had opportunities to testify throughout Croatia for older children. High school kids. Your reaction, and in this case, was undetectable and you acted absolutely uninterested as to what to conclude after reading this report, but also after my present replica. But the topic about which you were undetectable and uninterested is religious science and religious content in kindergartens and schools. According to your commitment and media statements, the electoral subject is one of the biggest problems children have in education regardless of the very small representation in applications. As problems in this election case, you list a lack of alternative electoral content for children who do not attend religious studies, but it is interesting that you do not mention any other electoral items that have significantly less representation of students, and therefore much greater problems with the care of those who do not attend these items, they are obviously not your problem. With religious science, a great problem creates a prayer and blessing at the beginning of the school year in the occasion of the Memorial Day, a event that is elective and extracurricular and in which children who do not declare themselves as Christians or Catholics participate. It is sad that we have come to have a defender who so lightly wants to reject a part of the tradition and identity that built Christian Croatia over the centuries and preserved all the values that we can be proud of today. In the end, I have to ask myself, "Who can pray be disturbed?"
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53651	The respected representative Pavliček will continue on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53652	Dear Advocates, in your report on several occasions, you mention the concept of religious teaching, also on several occasions mention complaints from individuals or parents about participation of children in religious content outside the religious program, such as prayer and blessing at the beginning of the school year, and a blessing on the occasion of the bread day. You also state that you have referred all these complaints to the competent treatment of the Education and Education Agency and to the educational inspection. Personally, I see nothing controversial about occasionally using religious content in school facilities 2 to 3 times a year outside the teaching of religious sciences because we live in a country where over 92% of our citizens on the last census have spoken to the believers. 86.3% Catholics, 4.5% Orthodox, 1.5% Islamic religion. And I absolutely don't mind that any of them occasionally in those environments where they make up most are used by their religious content beyond the teaching of religious sciences. I don't see here any threat to the minority, nor do I see any imposition of the opinion of the majority of the minority itself. But in your report, you mention primarily religious contents that are related to Catholic religion, so I want to draw attention to you that there are other religions that use their religious contents outside the teaching of religious sciences in school institutions, so in the area of Eastern Slavics, substitute where classes take place according to the A model of education for members of the Serb national minority are held once a year by the manifestation and marking of St. Saves the protectors of education among Orthodox believers, or Orthodox children, and you never had any complaints about the majority of this event, and I believe that everyone has a real right to occasionally go beyond teaching to use their religious contents. However, I would ask you to further mention these other religious contents, other creeds in your reports, but also to bear in mind that we are still living in a country where 92% of the believers exist and that we do not allow that because of so-called. The threat of minorities in this sense, I mean the religious minority is being seized by the rights of the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53653	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDSS, and a respected representative of Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53654	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Advocate for Children with Associates, the Honorable State Secretary. As we have already had the opportunity to hear, it has become a sort of tradition that we have a high-quality, comprehensive and systematic report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2020. The observations that some institutions have had, which are focused on the scope of the report, do not reflect the objective value this document has. The scope of this document can mean only one thing, which is that there are a whole series of problems that children and their parents are struggling with. The particular importance of this document is certainly also the fact that the lawyer's job is very responsible, demanding and specific because children's rights, the rights of small people who are also a particularly vulnerable group of our society because they can't take care of themselves sometimes, should actually be done by guardians or in most cases by parents, and the state is unfortunately in certain segments here and scheduled. And I'm afraid to think how many children whose rights have been violated, and they've been under radar by any of the institutions. And this report, therefore, relating to 2020, bears the seal of earthquakes and crowns. Children along with their parents felt all the problems that earthquakes and crowns brought to them by giving them carelessness of growing up. Sadly, many cases have occurred in addition to material damage and mental pressures, and it is difficult to imagine how children were coping with them in such situations. The earthquake and the crown took away the most valuable safety of home, hanging out with schoolmates, playing outdoors, going to school, contact with teachers and hugs with the nearest. As a parent, I can freely say that online teaching or home teaching has marked children's lives, and I am sure and more confident that nothing can replace teachers and teachers and I can freely say that technology in this sphere has helped as much as it has helped. In doing so, the children alienated themselves from their friends, from their teachers and from their loved ones, and the famous wingman Branko Radicevic, born in Slavonski Brod, “From the cradle to the grave is the most beautiful school age” to children who have marked schooling last year’s crowns and strikes probably sound like an empty flossule. I'm going to take the opportunity to stop here and talk a little bit about minority education at the time of the crown because I believe that under pandemic conditions was in worse shape than standard teaching. I just have to say the HRT in this part didn't shine at all. School in Croatian and Latin Scriptures through so-called The third school had its shortcomings, and for HRT, minority teaching did not exist. In collaboration with the Ministry of Science and Education, the Serb National Minority took on the burden of recording minority teaching and there was a lionic part of the work done by the institutions of the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia, which deals with minority education as well as teachers and teachers from teaching in Serbian and Cyrillic letters, taking over an obligation that was certainly not their own, and the HRT, regardless of the requests of different institutions, did not even want to take over the contents recorded by these institutions, but put the ministry on its own. This problem was detected by the Ombudsman, stating that it was embarrassing to say that it was throughout 2020. HRT broadcasts only 14 feature films for children of which four domestic and 10 foreign. It is incomprehensible that HTV does not feel the obligation and responsibility to respond to the needs of children in this regard as part of mandatory public service services. It sounds personally devastating to me that there are no special children's shows on HTV in the language of any national minority, and the justification that HRT states is that there is a show, that there is a "Prizma" show intended for members of national minorities, in which at least 28 contributions have been broadcast to children and children, and so it seems, so it is almost tragic. Data from the report that reduced the number of applications in the area of the rights of members of national minorities compared to the previous year in which 26 were, therefore, compared to the previous period when 47, can nevertheless be interpreted as being dubious, whether members of national minorities lost their trust in institutions, and I do not mean the Ombudsman whom I have to point out at this time and I must commend, that he did not remain silent about situations that were very dangerous for members of the Serb community, and while respecting the HS institution and this assembly speaker, I will not talk about the embarrassing inscription or password that took place on the Kustoshia in Zagreb, which referred to a hate speech against members of the Serb community or women and children. At that time, the lawyer had no fear of reacting publicly on her website and condemning such actions and also asked the cheerleading groups to clearly fence themselves from these groups. Another situation in which I also have to commend the Ombudsman even though the event refers to this year is her reaction to the attack on children attending classes in Serbian and Cyrillic letters at Nikola Tesla Technical School in Vukovar during school vacation. Within a few days, the Ombudsman came to school and in co-operation with the Ministry of Science and Education sent personnel reinforcements that should improve the situation in this school. Knowing the attorney general's work for the children, I believe he won't be left silent on groundless and populist attempts to cut class by model A in Vukovar. The Advocate General, as well as other Advocates, must be and remain independent and specialised bodies whose primary objective will be to protect and improve children's rights. They must not be affected by day-to-day political turmoil and must remain sovereign in decision-making and loud in the requirements of protection of those most vulnerable. And as long as the lawyer is loud and clear enough and works this way, she will have the support of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53655	Thank you very much. Since we've been somewhere for more than three hours now, we're gonna take a break, uh, for 10 minutes, and I'll see you at 12 and 50. There's a lot of clubs and individual ones, a lot of them... It's 12.40 o'clock. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.55 HOURS]] First respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53657	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. After careful reading of the Children's Attorney's Report for 2020, we conclude that the report is detailed, comprehensive, and it is seen that a continuous effort and work is being made to improve children's rights. However, the data is concerned. In 2020, in addition to working on the previous 574 items from the previous period, the office received a thousand 923 new applications, complaints, enquiries and requests related to the violation of individual children's rights, which at the annual level represents a 10% increase, and when we discussed the report for 2019, there was also 10% higher then compared to the previous year, so the number of applications continued to increase. As in earlier years, the maximum number of child - rights violations were related to infringements of children’s personal rights. The highest annual increase in certain areas of child rights violations was recorded in the area of judicial and protective rights, even 42%, respectively, in a total of 115. They are accompanied by applications for child rights violations in the education system of more than 100 new applications compared to the previous year and healthcare 162 individual applications and in the field of social rights 62 applications. In addition to all these topics, the Advocate's Office has worked on a thousand 158 general initiatives of the report and has collaborated with international institutions, the media, held expert meetings, projects and the processing of professional topics and we support this and continue. Children, parents and guardians are allowed under these terms of the pandemic and earthquake to turn for advice, help and support and by telephone, e-mail means a thousand 200 conversations you have had which was good to find these additional models for better communication. Who used to talk about questions and help most often? Parents of children, mothers most, fathers and together, but also institutions, schools and kindergartens, ministries, agencies and inspections, welfare centres, homes for children, associations, even some parliamentary representatives. However, we think the children have spoken in a small number. In only 26 cases, it is somehow a lesson and a message that children should be educated about their rights and motivated to turn to the lawyer if there are violations. What did the kids complain about most? On the issues of state graduation, enrolment in college, and then teaching organizations at the time of the epidemic, children from foster homes complained about the treatment and behaviour of the caretakers, dormitories, then problems with the rights to live with parents, etc. So there are all means places where children can be motivated and educated, in fact all stakeholders. It concerns the lack of an effective response by institutions in the protection of children and in the case of impaired relations in the family are also major problems still insufficient professional assistance and support regarding issues of parenting, family relations and adulthood. A few words about foster care, deinstitutionalisation and adoption. The number of children without adequate parental care in 2020 has been slightly increased, indicating that that deinstitutionalisation plan does not give the expected results in 2018 to 2020. With regard to adoption, in children's homes without adequate parental care and services centres in the community on 31. 12. In 2020, 97 children had the conditions for adoption. It is 20 children more than in the previous year and then we read articles in newspapers and portals to quote: “The law protects parents, and you should have children. In Croatia, as many as 6 years are waiting for adoption. It's an alarming condition in homes. Every year, only a hundred young people are adopted from Nazor, from Klasje two, and in all of the country, a new home is found in only 100 small people." So you are all together as a society, and as an institution and as a government, we need to find a way to increase the number of adoptions. There is also a big problem with complaints about parental actions that do not pay for restraint, and then we ask where are the institutions, where are the legal provisions, where are education, where are penalties for those who do so on purpose. Other people who can't do it because of the material situation. There is a major problem and violence in educational institutions, and peer violence and violence of adults against children. Also a major problem in these conditions are children's rights in the field of education and education especially for children with developmental difficulties, so there are certainly great places to improve. This whole situation has to be a lesson to us. What if the fourth wave of pandemic happens? So we will also have to manage under the conditions of online teaching and adherence to epidemiological measures etc. As far as health is concerned, I will look more closely at the individual debate. Yesterday we also had a high-quality session on mental health of children. There will be late consequences, unfortunately, of the pandemic. There are insufficient numbers of experts to care for mental health, so there are certainly great places to improve. And somehow in the end, it would be a lesson of everything that, with these 72 general recommendations you've given, 38 of them have been accepted. 8 recommendations not accepted. Therefore, these institutions have to be more obvious and qualityd, and in response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which we also had the opportunity to read, so they say that some legal provisions are in preparation, they are planned in the process, so they must be faster and more agile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53658	The next club of MPs, excuse me, will now continue on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club to speak to the respected representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53659	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I will relate to the problem of missing children and the lack of protocol on the conduct in the event of their disappearance. It is frightening that one child disappears in the EU every 2 minutes. In the United States, the situation is even scarier every 40 seconds, one child is either kidnapped or missing. In Croatia, the situation is not so alarming yet, but if something urgent is not done statistics could be devastating. Cases of child disappearance are conditioned by different living circumstances and events and require the hasty conduct of experts and institutions from different resolutions. First of all, police, social care, health care, education and civil society organisations. The disappearances are risky and extremely dangerous events, and the consequences can be invaluablely severe and fatal for children in these difficult situations. In the event that a child or a minor disappears, either by will or by parents or guardians do not know the child’s location and suspect that the child is at risk the first step in the conduct is to report to the police in order to start searching in time. However, I must stress what is very bad and what does not help missing children is the fact that there is no united written procedure and uniform practice that would ensure a higher degree of effectiveness and urgency in acting as well as after finding the missing child. I'm specifically referring to providing psychosocial assistance. In order to balance the conduct of the various participants in the child's disappearance proceedings, a proposal for a protocol on the conduct in the event of a child's disappearance has been drawn up. The idea was that this unique document, based on relevant European and national regulations, would regulate the ways and deadlines of the conduct of individual bodies and organisations and the rights and obligations of parents or legal agents in the process of finding the missing child. However, this protocol has not yet been adopted at state level and procedures in the event of the disappearance of children have not been uniformed at the level of the Republic of Croatia, which makes it difficult already to deal with the difficult situation of parents and guardians. And so we are again one of the few countries in Europe that has no concrete protocol in this very important topic of our society. Note, missing children are not only statistical data, they are small living people with their own problems in which they have found themselves without their own will, and it is primarily up to all of us to help them not to be found in the missing category, and if that happens, institutions do absolutely everything in their power to find them as soon as possible, to get the necessary help and opportunity for some better life. A child is never a problem, a child is just a child.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53660	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Nada Murganic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53661	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is the 18th report by our attorney for children and on her work, the work of her office, which would, in its structure, be very similar to the reports so far, of course, differ from statistical data, by the actions and activities of that office and the Ombudsman, however, it is particularly significant. Significantly because in relation to 2020, the year that has really left a trail because of the pandemic is not only with us but also in the world, but unfortunately with us, the problem has been strengthened because of the earthquake in Zagreb and Banovina that is still going on. And when we talk about children and their problems in educational education processes, then we can also mention that this is the year that preceded in 2019 where there was a significant number of teachers' working hours on strike on the one hand, on the other hand, the introduction of a curricular reform that did not fully revive. The children have indeed survived a number of traumas this year that will leave long-term consequences, and they can understand the representative who said it was '20. I have requested a special report, but I am also grateful to the Ombudsman who has devoted a significant part of this report to the pandemic and the consequences of the pandemic, and especially to the organisation of yesterday's thematic session on the Committee on the Family where a group of experts presented everything that means and which has created the consequences of the pandemic on our children's mental health. And I think it's a valuable material that's going to slip through this discussion of ours. Children's schools became their home, and this same home was their parents' office, lost friends, lost teachers, no playgrounds, no playgrounds, no sports, sports halls, content that they followed through cultural content. What was the same specific teaching on-line or on television, was a large number of children made it difficult especially if they did not have the opportunity to provide them with any kind of transport within their home. The desire for school was pronounced and the younger children even pointed out that they would not have a problem wearing a mask just to be in close contact with their friends, with their colleagues. If we know that we have situations where, within our homes, our homes, their homes, their children are exposed to various violence or quarrels, bad family relations, then we can conclude that school is a friendly and secure environment for those children, unfortunately, but that is the case. And so I will especially point out that we can be grateful for the beliefs and tenacity of Minister Fuchs, who insisted on as much as possible and whenever it was possible to teach in schools. And of course when they returned to school there was additional stress, over television and over online teaching was of course and questionable knowledge often lacking, various tests created new, new fears, or new stress. We don't all have the same resistance to difficult life situations, and so do our children. What I want to point out in particular, and it's sad, and it always shakes me especially when I read reports like this, which is that our children are threatened with the basic law that they have, for life, are exposed to violence, sexual violence, neglect and all those other abuses of which, everyone who had emotions that a normal man, as we like to say in lay language, is disgusted, and during Covid, during the pandemic, children were exposed to such abusers for reasons that there was no access to any protection by institutions. It was a time that lasted 2 months, however, it is a time that at that age is quite significant, it is irreparable, and they do not have much time. This is their time, and these next ones won't have any more. Of course, that is why, in public and by profession, it is often called for the need for psychological and psychotherapy and psychiatric even, help, however, there are two problems. It's hard to accept that a child has such a problem. Very often parents are either blinded or burdened by different stigmas, on the one hand, on the other hand, which is also a terrible problem that needs to be seriously addressed, which is that there are neither enough experts nor enough institutions that would be able to monitor and give you adequate help. Indicators show that already more than 7,000 children have been diagnosed with various damages or mental health, that we do not say that they are anxiety, that they are depressed, that they are prone to self-insulation, that they are prone to self-harmation, that they are even thinking about murder, and that this, aversion, or opening to different forms, opiates, or some means that create additional addictions, are also increasing. Children also have a drop in concentration, they're afraid to stay alone in their homes, we know that during the lockdown part of their parents they couldn't be with their children, they could work from home, and they stayed at home because of kindergartens and schools that didn't work. What I specifically pointed out in the replica, I would like to make it known once again, is that feeling of responsibility they had, and that is a warning that they do not have close contact with their grandparents, these small, and also high-school students to reduce their departures to kikak's parties and socialities in order not to pass on, not to be carriers of diseases to their older members and more or less they were very aware of it and they were also having a difficult time experiencing the disease of their older family members, as well, and their death. This home that used to work during the lockdown was, of course, the scene of all possible events, it all came down to it in several squares and of course that the interactions in the family were different, very often there was a fight and it was certainly burdening the children. What I said and in the replica, I'll do it again now. If we don't want this to happen to our children again, let's do everything possible to create as much immunity as possible and show responsibility for our children now. This is the part that applies exclusively and that it is tied to the pandemic, however, cannot even separate it specifically. The Ombudsman, of course, also presented statistics, in 1923 there are new applications that bind to 574 of the previously received cases, which are, of course, more complex, therefore require a longer-term problem and it is very interesting to increase the number and registration and address of the lawyer, which may be on the one hand and a sign that the lawyer's role is nevertheless recognised in society. There is, however, one openness to the attorney's office, there is also an application by children, parents, educators, and that is certainly one of the reasons why this number is increasing, but the number of violations of children's rights is certainly on the continuum and we have not yet reached the development of a society that fully enables the happy childhood of children we seek and who we have committed as signatories of the Convention, as well as other international documents. Of course, the most common and painful violation of the rights of children who are related to the right to parenting, to their right to life, as I have already mentioned, is the right of the child to live with his parents and all other rights arising from the social care system most, but also the health and education system, so I will talk about it in the next debate due to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53662	There will be an individual debate next, so I will ask that the first debate be Mr. Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53663	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Advocacy, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me say that I welcome and support this comprehensive and highly elaborate report. However, this is, of course, not only a report on the work of an institution but, as has already been said, it is also a kind of catalogue of our failures, our indifference, our lack of quick action, or insufficient action, or perhaps even inaction. That is why this report is at the same time an indication to all of us, but also to all institutions, a guideline that tells us what we must fix, or in what direction we must act. And at this point in particular, I would like to refer to the educational rights of children, which as it is numbered in the report, which would be this, in particular the availability of education and education, then security, the adequateness of spatial and organisational conditions, human resources, programming and content teaming, or the equipment of educational institutions, appropriate education of children with developmental difficulties and, of course, at the end of the day, but not least the general educational rights under the terms of the pandemic caused by the Covid-19 virus. As regards availability, a particularly pronounced problem is the lack of room for enrolment in some of the pre-school education and education programmes and as stated in the report, and this should underline further difficulties ageing differently, and sometimes non-transparent or even discriminatory criteria such as. requires some units of local self-government that both parents have a residence right in the area of that unit of local self-government if they want to enroll their child in a kindergarten that is the town or municipality of the founder. As far as security is concerned, it would highlight the problem that is being apostropheeded in the report. In fact, the Law on Education and Education in Article 69 makes it very clear that elementary school students have the right to free transportation, which is responsible for providing the founder, and from home to school and back, of course, if their homes are more than 3 and 5 km away from school, depending on whether they attend higher or lower primary school classes. This right is unfortunately very often broken, and when it is carried out it can be organised in some improvised or inadequate way, for example. through some ad hoc arrangements or even arrangements with commercial carriers. Children are so rarely forced to go to school on foot, often long shares, often on unlit roads without footsteps. This should not happen to any such phenomenon but also to the Government and the Ministry through their bodies, of course, but unfortunately, the reaction is often lagging behind. And this brings us to another important aspect of this debate because in the procedure is not only a report by the attorney general for the children for the past year, but also an opinion or an indication of the government's report. And these obviouss, of course, are a kind of filter through which the work of the Attorney General is determined in the government's understandings, some of the fingerprints that the Attorney General left in his work to the government. The defeat is the fact that educated children's rights in the government's opinion have been violated. On page 13 of the Government opinion, there is no literal letter of violation of the educational rights of children, although these rights make up as much as 1/5, 20% of the violations of all children's rights in this report. It's a shame that we even recorded raising the percentage of children covered by preschool education and education with a number in the national development strategy. as it is in vain and what we have written down in law on the obligation to transport primary school children [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because while bad practice or examples of bad practice... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53664	Your Honor, please, you're way out of time, thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative, MP Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53665	Dear Chairman, once again a good day to all, I would like to say a few words about the protection against sexual exploitation and abuse. I'm sorry, I'm a little out of breath because I've been somewhere else. As a community, we certainly need to worry about the crimes of sexual nature committed to the harm of children. I believe that in light of the changes and additions to the Penal Code that these changes will work towards greater protection of children from sexual exploitation and abuse. The report states, and according to the MUP, 573 acts of sexual nature committed to the harm of children were reported during 2020. Although this in a significantly smaller number compared to 702 has been discovered and reported crimes in the '19th, the number of applications speaks of more than a worrying phenomenon and deserves not only clearer sanctioning of criminal offences but also greater joint social engagement in order to completely eradicate sexual exploitation of children. Especially since it concerns a large number of reports of sexual violence in educational institutions or places associated with these institutions such as sexual harassment of children in professional practice, or e.g. from the school bus driver. In the '20s, the lawyer received 56 applications regarding the child's right to protection against sexual exploitation and abuse. They are particularly concerned about the application of sexual harassment by teachers in the reply report by most schools, resulting in the fact that after the report of harassment of the responsible person at school they cannot protect children because they do not have legal conditions for suspending the perpetrator until the formal initiation of the criminal proceedings," I quote. And here, in his opinion, the government points out that presummation of innocence, unfortunately. Cases of sexual harassment and violence often go unpunished, and it is not just the initiation of a criminal procedure that enables the abuser to continue to carry out a job where he comes into contact with children and can continue to sexually harass children. The Ombudsman believes that child protection would also contribute to the system of licensing of teachers, persons working with children not only in educational institutions but also in other systems that organise activities for children, and this would be an important segment of child protection. The issue of such a licence would assume that a person working with children fulfils the prescribed conditions and competences and provides, of course, safety in the protection of children. The problem is, the Ombudsman considers that the check of previous convictions is not carried out systematically or is carried out correctly. Previously convicted of certain offences should be an obstacle to carrying out tasks involving contact with children, which are prescribed only by certain specific regulations, e.g. in the system of education and education, fostering, sports, volunteering, etc. Each system regulates these obstacles in a different way, so there are gaps that allow, despite the principle of ban, convicted sex offenders to keep in touch with children. There are also areas where there is no regulation at all and not even these obstacles or the need for a prior check of the conviction of persons in contact with children in criminal records, for example. the work of those associations whose users are children, and we know very well one long time ago with Caritas. So, such unregulated areas of services for children such as additionally organised games of babysitting, sports and music workshops, so everything we call using free time for children, children's camps, etc. and that is where we should regulate to ensure that we do not really provide children with additional insurance, and in particular the Ombudsman is constantly seeking to prevent the convicted perpetrator from getting back in touch with the children and to advocate the permanent storage of data on conviction. I think we're back here in Parliament to see what such recommendations mean, which means those for child safety, especially for perpetrators of such crimes as sexual harassment and child abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53666	Stay here please we have a few replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53667	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Boric. So, sexual harassment of children is a particular topic that the attorney in her report has pointed out, but what you said on behalf of the club, and I mentioned those recommendations, so the lawyer is talking about recommendations, talking about what needs to be done, and that her ingenuity is in principle limited, there is the role of everyone else. We're going to have amendments to the Penal Code tomorrow and something else, but it seems to me that it's all together just one frame, one tool, and what's important is that the courts in their practice, that behind that people when especially individuals are hired where children come to take care of all this. So everyone's got this whole story one tool in their hands each of your tools should be used maximum. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53668	Thank you. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53669	Thank you. I agree with you, we have just spoken to the club and we have already written a proposal for a conclusion that we would oblige the government to once every two months, since we know that this tool is a recommendation, that the government submits to us every two months a report on what is of these recommendations and how these recommendations have been activated. It's going to be the first way that we don't have to maybe set up, so we should change some regulations and some supervisory and body here to watch what happens with the implementation of the recommendations themselves. Otherwise you really know it's not just about this lawyer that all of our attorneys, i.e. The attorneys insist on writing recommendations, some of them repeat themselves, and as long as we have each sixth or that it's dark and each other, and not every first recommendation accepted means that something is wrong, and especially here if it's about children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53670	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Borić, in your discussion, looked a lot at the problem of sexual abuse and, in fact, in the area, perhaps not directly but there are also these cases that we talked about in the Parliament, the abuse of autistic children who are actually enemated by an industrial bleacher. That's what the previous child lawyer actually filed criminal charges with the state's attorney, but now we've had a chance to see that since then, we haven't actually had some kind of judicial epilogue. And maybe on the very trail of the recommendations of those you've been talking about in cases like this should have somehow established that communication with the attorney general that he's reporting us more often because these are things that happen in continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53672	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53673	Yes, I agree with you, today all morning and very often really fellow MPs don't know how many times the lawyer has to do and some of us have to say that the only tool that has these suggestions is. Recommendations for promotion. The prosecutor is expected not to be the one if she tells the government or institutions a recommendation to change something, then she is at those institutions. You've heard that even 13% are unworthy or responded to what was proposed. So there are no orders. It's up to us here to find some other mechanisms that really don't happen that someone treats sick kids with bleachers or that no one else abuses. Today, there have been fewer conversations about these special subgroups, therefore children with developmental problems, or that there are not really some groups that we don't always have time to talk about here, and these are children, whether in educational institutions of a closed type, prison type, children's homes, unsettled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53674	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53675	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues, here in the Attorney General's Report, of course, and in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the concept of sexual predators is mentioned, or convicted perpetrators, part of abused children and minors. And the problem of a legal instrument is raised in terms of what needs to be done when such a person should be released from prison after serving a sentence. The problem is in constant professional supervision, in enhanced supervision, because most of it is to say that to incurable people. And exactly what you mentioned in the amendments to the Penal Code should come up with a legal instrument and a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53676	That's right. Thank you. I hope we... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53677	Go ahead. I give you my word. Here you are, dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53678	Excuse me. So, thank you, buddy. Yes, I hope that tomorrow, in the debate, we will also show this understanding of the changes from the non-determination of the sexual delinquent, to the fact that what the attorney is talking about, she insists that the data on the conviction must be kept. It can't happen that you're rehabilitated, it's okay, everyone has the right to rehab but we know that sexual predators and that it's not that simple and that it has to be known if such a reconvalescence comes to work with children again. He can do something else. Rehabilitation doesn't mean we're gonna shut someone out of the community, but it doesn't mean they have to be in contact with children just someone who's been convicted of such misdemeanors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53679	Honorable representative of the Voice and vice president of this House of the High.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53680	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, you are right when you warn of sexual exploitation and abuse of children with an emphasis on the seriousness of the situation especially in educational institutions that are their second home. I also froze when I received an e-mail yesterday pointing to a case from Split at a primary school where the professor of mathematics was self-satisfaction in front of a 10-year-old girl in extra math classes. That act has been reported to the police. He did so during September and October 2019. The parents immediately reported the act. However, legal epilogues that would give the school's responsibilities the possibility to suspend the said school employee only came nine months later. I understand the assessment of innocence, but I also don't understand what kind of message we send to our children and why we don't speed up these actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53681	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53682	Thank you very much. So I think that's what the D.A. said about some kind of suspension especially in cases of abuse in the education system, so it can't wait for us to say that those who are obliged to do their job and have that same teacher in the education system. So we really should if we're saying we're constantly protecting the child's interest, then that interest should be our first priority. It does not mean that laws should be broken, but does not mean that someone is suspended that he can certainly not prove his innocence for cases like these we know are more than worrying and the attorney general warns that unfortunately the judiciary is as slow and otherwise slow and in cases where there are violations and criminal acts against children that may be necessary to make some priorities. I hope if we have any other kinds of dishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53683	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53684	Thank you. I would like first of all to draw attention to this speech and actually thank your office for following the topic of children on the move, or the children of migrants actually in this home, but also the general public very little talk. In the report itself, you state that you have been following the exercise and violation of the rights of migrant children, especially related to collective exiles by police officers at the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also said that Border Violence Monitoring, therefore, is a network that controls the rights at the border, states that in 2020 at least 170 minors were expelled, and there are also evidences of violence against them and their family members, confiscation of personal items and money, shooting into the air, stripping of clothes and shoes and attacks by police dogs. It is stated that children with families are returning from the border without implementing the procedure provided for by international and national law, i.e. they are not able to seek asylum. Therefore, the asylum system is an individual system and anyone who wishes to seek asylum or express the intention of being enabled. The interior ministry rejects all such allegations as unfounded despite UNHCR, the Danish Rafiq office, despite the fact that the prominent press houses and public televisions of Switzerland, Germany, Austria have video documentation about this. For example, last week, SRF, therefore, left a documentary from the Swiss public television camera that was recorded this May in the area of the village of Glinica during which they recorded the expulsion of 71 persons including a woman in 8 months of pregnancy, an eight-month-old baby and an old man on crutches. Of those 70 people who have been expelled, so-called. The push backs 20-toros were children. Last night, you could see an extremely earthquake story on RTL, a contribution by Dana Derifaj to a 35-year-old Iranian woman who was returned 22 times with her two minor children from the territory of the Republic of BiH. Every time she sought asylum and every time they put her in a van and said she was going to Zagreb to seek asylum at a police station and would return her to BiH. The prosecutor's office said in its report that it is a particularly problematic issue for children who have sought international protection in Croatia, and their parents have either stayed or been expelled back to BiH. These children remain separated from their parents for months, sometimes longer because family integration is an extremely slow, slow process. Also, we are a country that applies a detective detention to children, children who have been denied international protection, or their parents spends not a month but often much longer in Užjevo. I don't know if any of you have been in Jezjevo, it's prison, children remain without access to education at the time, without adequate care, not to say that they are located in an institution of a closed type with adults. That's absolutely unacceptable. I want to tell you to read the report by international organisations and UN agencies on the disasters that children experience in the detention centres across Greece and Turkey, on the rate of suicide among children, as well as on how many children of migrants who have been on the road for several years have stopped their will to live and are daily thinking about ending their lives. The three-member family from Iran we talked about, which our fellow citizens protected from re-exorcision and allowed the press team to bring them to Zagreb to seek asylum, their 7-year-old daughter, when they were caught, threw herself around the feet of a police officer and begged not to banish them anymore. Their mother testified last night that their 7-year-old girl was completely exhausted by three-year-old push backs and harassing, at the top of the mountain she told her mother and her brother why she wouldn't take hands now and throw herself down to finish that torture. What kind of civilization makes a 7-year-old kid think about suicide? Ask yourself that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53685	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53686	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members of Bencic you pointed to a part of the Ombudsman's report on the rights of children and children of migrants, therefore children who are looking for a way to a better life. When I think about this century, this century, is a century between other and climate change and everything that experts say, they say that people will seek not only because of some economic conditions, not just because of some wars that are being fought, but because of the inability of life in the area where they live because if they have more than a day or two to drinking water they will have to seek some better life. And the one who gets the most, the kids get hurt by the ones who are the most sensitive ones who are the most unnecessarily unaccompanied kids, so they're called where parents are elsewhere. I think we're the country that should have empathy for all this after all we've been through, after all the trauma that we've been through, and I think they're like this. Such discussions are necessary. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53687	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53688	Thank you, colleague Taritash. So when I look at pictures of children's centres across Greece, Turkey, and Croatia, when I look at children being expelled from the border, I also see pictures of our children from the war that were also in columns, which were also expelled but which Europe has welcomed differently than it has welcomed these children. And when I read these reports and I look at the video of the banishment, and I have a child half a year younger than this little girl, half a year younger, I wonder what we do for our future, what we do for ourselves, and what heritage we leave morally, ethically, and legally, and why we don't give our hand where we can, but we radicalize people by holding children for years in detention centres around Greece, Turkey, and we also see in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53689	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53690	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, we must feel compassion for all the people in need, and it seems to me that the world is so hypocritical that it does not notice other people in need. But from your appearance, in fact, to read that you are advocating illegal border crossings, means the right to asylum in the country can be exercised, but Please, you can't. [[Please, please, we won't do that.]] Now ask that 10,000 refugees in BiH or 50,000 in Greece all come to Croatia. [[Intruder: Comrade Bencic, please slowly you will have a chance.]] That's why there's a sovereign state, and that's why borders need to be kept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53691	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53692	So, I'll repeat to you in 2020 we've expelled 170 children from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When a person enters the territory of the Republic of Croatia, no matter how he enters it legally or illegally, he has the right to seek asylum. And now you tell me what is the legal way of seeking asylum without coming to the border, there is no more, you understand there is no such thing as a deterrent. Dissuading from coming to the border. Why was this person returned to BiH 22 times? Well, I know people who have been returned 10, 15 times to BiH. So everyone testifies to it, and you keep denying it. I am talking about the need for legal access to children to seek protection, not that they must illegally cross the border and expose their lives and then end up in such a way as to return them to camps illegal in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Turkey.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53693	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mrak Taritash. Here you go. ... I'm asking you nicely, let's not yell. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please let's calm down. Please calm down because I'm going to start giving warnings about yelling from the scene. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53694	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman with an associate, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I may be a little more light on the subject when it comes to children, but I'm afraid when it comes to children, there's no light on the subject, and that's the theme of children and sports. So, in 2020, it was a year where children couldn't play sports. You know very well what our very good minds are, so to speak, making decisions, so they couldn't deal with the basic sport either in the open or in the closed. What will be the consequences that we'll only see. So, the crown has definitely brought about a certain change for the whole world and what will be the consequence of it will only be seen on the mental health of children, and in this case it will also be on the physical health of children. So, I know not a small number of cases where parents have taken that role so that children don't sit at home, that children are moving, being outside or that someone is a top athlete must first and principally deal with sports and different types of sports. You know that the halls were busy, that in the halls it couldn't have been as lower a category that couldn't have been trained at all or anything. On several occasions, I asked from this pay phone and the Secretary in charge when it came to outdoor sports, it was specifically about sailing where I said let me explain why someone can't deal with sailing because there's nothing special about Optimists. He comes in, sits in Optimist, goes out, and his coach is in another boat. But we'll see what it is. Equally, when it comes to sports for us, the attorney-in-law was talking about protecting the rights of children involved in sports. So, you have amateur sport, you have to have kids as part of your class that wasn't engaged in sports. That he decided to do some physical activity, and then you have kids who are engaged in sports that go towards top-notch sports and there were 59 items and now they're interesting complaints that they were. They concerned inappropriate and violent behaviour of coaches towards children in the club, the impact of conflict between adults on children, club decisions and alliances, and the organisation of competitions. So, I'm kind of always trying to talk about topics that I understand a little bit better about, in topics that I've kind of been through in my life and it's this child's desire that you make out of children very quickly and very simply one top athlete and that's those complaints that were on violent behavior coaches where coaches then through the inability somehow different from these violent and aggressive things actually try to create from a child as successful as possible athletes and on account and some other things where sport is primarily. The same can always be associated with the debate held by Boric, and it is related to sexual abuse which is very often in sports especially between girls who are there for some 14 and 15 years where we have had several cases, where we have had several cases in several clubs and in the end it happened that nothing happened with the coach. He just went to live in another town and went to work at another club. That's the end of it. Well, my people, we're a country that has 4 million inhabitants, so we're not in this assembly where someone doesn't know anyone. Well, it can't happen that a coach who was in a club and where his inappropriate behavior was determined not to say inappropriate sexual behavior or child abuse goes to work in a city that's 100 km or 200 km away and that goes on. It's just something to take care of. I don't think there's much to worry about. We read about it, even some films were made or read about it. But these are the situations we have. This is where you speak and the influence of these conflict relations of adults. It's when you kids, so we're talking about when a kid does jobs that aren't appropriate, he doesn't have any equipment, no knowledge, no age. But what is it when he's in sports? So he's made by adults to be in a sport where in that way I'm not actually going to say that money is made, but there's some other stuff going on. That's one subject that had one part in this attorney's report. And I think it's the same thing to take care of in the future in a certain way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53695	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53696	Dear colleagues when we talk about actually equality otherwise access to people, so also children in sports and at all access to recreational sports and amateur sports we have already noticed, we have been talking about that one of the big problems is actually today, which relative to the previous quite big change is that the vast majority of sports activities are charged to you and is therefore not equally available to your children. And today, when we look at the ratio of professional sports financing and certain professional clubs, I only talk about certain sports because it is known which sports are not for which, and when we look at what investment is in children's amateur sport and therefore insurance access to their children therefore and in urban and rural areas that sport can be dealt with we actually see great discorepancy. So I'm interested in your position on this, and what you would recommend, in fact, with the attorney's report that the government actually does about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53697	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53698	Thank you very much for asking. So, we've already talked here on several occasions about the relationship of children and sports and investing in this amateur sport. So we'll see how many of us there are, let's pretend there's 4 million of us, even though they'll probably show there's a lot less of us. But in order for you to one day become the top athlete that we always like to admire, it always causes a special emotion, you have to have a base, that base is forgotten over time. There is an investment in the sport of parents who finance it themselves or have some ambition, even ambition may be that the child at home does not remember but is engaged in some sort of activity, and there is also a large role and units of local self-government or municipalities and cities, when we had and discussed the Law on Sport Inspection then opened up among other things and the thing. So, investing in sports you don't have to invest in sports expect someone to be a top athlete, investing in sports is a healthy child's life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53699	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53700	Dear colleagues. Although you've put your focus on children and sports, so here we have a constituency committee that just connects family, youth and sport, and it seems really that the times have changed and that everything that one generation sitting here has been getting in their childhood as a free participation in sports is unfortunately no longer available and that's where we see what my colleague Bencic said, that the availability to the very fact that children can participate in sports is no longer the same and that's the first violation I would say the rights of the child. I would also like to ask you, and this is about my education, so what do you think about where the objections are here today is about religious science and who's having a problem with who the prayer bothers, what do you think about sexual education for children to prevent children from understanding what their coaches or other predators are doing to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53701	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53702	Thank you very much for your question. I am absolutely one of those who thinks that civic education is mandatory, so that there should be no civil education as it is now possibly academically within the class community class hours or I don't know what it's called anymore than that civil education should be fully required in the captainship. In civic education, children also need to learn about financial literacy, to learn about democracy, to get the basics of a different parliamentaryism in general. So when you look at a little interrogation among children and see how exclusive they are, and you can get a part through education, you get a part through the accessibility of media that approach in different ways, and you get a part in school because let's say that we'll probably get rid of these crowns once and that children will normally go further to school and get through education. And equally I can learn to say no [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53703	The next debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53704	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I have announced in this individual debate, I will focus on the problem of health rights. We have already heard that 162 individual applications were made last year, the Ombudsman sent 10 recommendations from the office, one statement and one proposal to amend the rules relating to the health of children. The Covida-19 pandemic has made us acute changes, but it will make us long-term changes, so we have to ask ourselves what lessons we learned from this previous period, what we learned from the pandemic times, what we learned from the earthquake times and how we will improve health rights and children and adults, so all of us. What were the applications? In some cases, quality communication and the relationship of healthcare professionals with parents and children in many cases have been impaired by the visit of parents to children during hospital treatment, the problem of protecting children's health in schools and kindergartens during the epidemic, the dissatisfaction with the decisions of the Civil Protection Staff relating to children and teaching and sports activities. As for the escorting of the parents during the hospitalization, the practice was different, of course that during the lockdown it was completely disabled, but from the institution to the institution there were differences, somewhere an escort was allowed, somewhere 15 minutes, about 30 minutes, there were individual reports, and there were appeals to allow escorting parents while their child was lying in hospital. And now there are definitely conditions when here are our pandemics, so I believe there are no such problems right now in this situation, and I'm saying all of this has to be a lesson and preparation for some future don't give God the waves of the pandemic. The next problem is an escort at birth, these were also unequal practices in health institutions. Here I was already talking about the troma and actually the first principles of this topic in the Assembly as early as May 18th, May 19th and final 1.6th, and then 2.6th, the minister finally made one recommendation and actually asked the health institutions to manifest themselves in order to provide an escort at birth, and again I say the terms and conditions are, and indeed, the health institutions must respond to the ministry to what extent they actually provide birthing escorts, of course in accordance with epidemiological measures, but we all agree that it is now really time for our pregnant women to be accompanied by births. During the pandemic, the children were most afraid not to infect adults, so we heard yesterday at a session about the mental health of children. They missed their friends very much, so they said if I remember correctly, they'd rather wear masks and stick to epidemiological measures just to be in schools. It would also refer to what you point out, not with this report, but also in previous reports, which are inadequate hygiene conditions in individual schools, lack of water, toilet paper and soap not only during the pandemic, so we hope that then schools will still listen to what is recommended to them and that these normal conditions are actually made possible by all. We also highlight the child's right to be vaccinated. So, their right to vaccination must not be violated, and with regard to vaccination against Covid, we are like adults who must be sufficiently vaccinated to protect our children. As I stated yesterday, there was a quality debate on mental health. Unfortunately, there are insufficient numbers of mental health professionals working with children and adults. But here we are talking about kids now, and we're going to need to direct resources, increase the number and psychologists, and shrinks, and about enrolment in colleges, because as I said, we're going to talk about actually the late effects of Covid. The alarming frequency of drinking alcohol, smoking cigarettes among children and availability despite legal bans is alarming. I was also talking in the replica about the problem of the proximity of gambling machines and casinos that should be removed from educational institutions. Children with malignancies should also be provided with quality training and all care while they are in hospital treatment. And certainly we'll have to make up for everything that hasn't been done as far as health services are concerned, bend our strengths even though we're all exhausted from Covid so our children can make up for everything they couldn't do during the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53705	We have three replicas. He is the first respected representative of Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53706	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, since we come from the health sector, and you and I, I would like to touch on another topic or one of the problems mentioned in the Attorney's Office's report, which is the problem of an adequate health care institution where they would take care of, professionally care and provide adequate care for minors who have been convicted of committing a criminal offence and are serving a prison sentence and need psychiatric treatment and also for a group of minors suspected of committing a criminal offence who are currently or permanently innumerable. There was only one institution with us so far. However, here is how the Croatian Ministry of Justice has been expressed in the light of the government in agreement with the Ministry of Health, and the problem should be resolved soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53707	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53708	Well, here's the thing, unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to talk about it, even though, of course, that's where I wrote it. We agree that there is this problem and that indeed the Government, or the RES, will have to ensure the conditions for both children and young people who have this problem to be treated psychologically and they have been deprived of freedom to give them conditions so that they can be adequately placed. I agree that's where the government has to do its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53709	The Republic has a respected representative, Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is known that the petition for the possibility of a child staying with a hospitalized child was possible. It was signed by over 60 thousand parents and four hundred experts. However, the Ministry of Health did not respond to this at all. As we have already repeated several times today that we are witnessing that, according to the counsel's recommendations, we are talking about a number of defences, unfortunately, do not act and that we have examples that we have the same recommendations that are repeated year after year. For this reason, we believe that the Council of the Republic of Croatia should ask the Government for a two-month report showing how these recommendations are being implemented and where they come from, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53711	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53712	Thank you. I agree with everything you've said. So the problem of escorting the parents of children and the problem of escorting at birth, means that there were many petitions, which experts who also recommended especially I say in these conditions when the pandemic was still a little excruciating, but the answers of the competent ministry unfortunately there was no here. We've already had discussions, and there's a Parliament that needs more detailed reports where the resolution ministries would exactly what you said inform us of everything that's been done. But I think that here and you, and we, and we all have some kind of strength and word that we will press those responsible to actually react to what our citizens, and experts, and we, as Parliamentarians, point out. So, by working together, it certainly pushes the authorities to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53713	The Republic has a respected representative, Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53714	Thank you, Vice President. The distinguished advocates are the fact that the pandemic of the coronary virus is a total unknown and the question is what we know more after a year and a few days about this pandemic. Maybe some of the things that have been done have been done in fear, so from this perspective we can see they're not good. What I wanted to tell you is that I come from a system of education and education and I think the situation in schools with regard to material and technical means is not going to say perfect but at a high level. I can't believe some director missed out on getting certain materials that were necessary either that it was disinfectants, hand towels, toilet paper. So the responsibility is exclusively with the school principal who didn't make it possible. So let's look for responsibility for some people, not in general for... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53715	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53716	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So we agree in one part that there is a responsibility of the school principal. We also talked about problems in hospitals, etc. But if you have a problem with what you're pointing to from the pay phone, if you have a lawyer who points to certain problems in the system, if you have recommendations, if you have relapsers who simply don't respond to what is recommended to them, then you have to ask yourself who's to blame. So these basic hygiene conditions unfortunately have it. The lawyer herself has come to this, and there are examples in the field. But then such responsible persons need to be sanctioned in some way. So we can't close our eyes and say, everything is super beautiful and beautiful, and we know it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53717	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53718	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed attorneys with associates, State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. School year 2019/20. For many, it was a challenge, demanding additional efforts that we faced in the fight against the pandemic, as well as in the educational and educational aspect where students met with online teaching. In order to successfully implement online classes, certain technical conditions as well as knowledge of students and their parents were needed. Then we saw certain differences in conditions for children from different areas, conditions in which they live or nationality. Many Roma families in the Republic of Croatia live in extremely unfavourable living conditions, and due to poor social and material conditions they did not have the necessary working conditions. This includes the necessary device, the Internet, a space where they will be able to learn and organize time spent in peace and quiet because families are often numerous. I'll give you an example of one from my county. The elementary school that has a Roma population has provided children with 4 gigabyte tablets per month. The division of devices was carried out in a way that one family was assigned a single device regardless of the number of students in that family, and data traffic was also not enough for online teaching requirements, so children were often left without the necessary traffic needed to monitor teaching. Several children of the Roma population who showed difficulties in understanding what was read, and other learning difficulties were more difficult to follow on-line teaching. Children with disabilities need individual access and additional clarifications, which has often been disabled. There has been an expression and a lack of knowledge in the use of technologies, insufficient information literacy for both children and their parents who have contributed to reducing the quality of follow-up on line teaching. All of these led to the fact that children of the Roma population would not follow on-line classes or participate less successfully than other students. Motivation was low, according to teachers, and children were denied the right to education. Every child has the right to free education, and treatments such as half-day social services can affect motivation, willingness to learn and ultimately succeed children. Now I'd like to look back at the missing children's problem. A few days ago, a child disappeared in Vinkovci. Fortunately, after several hours of searching, the child was returned to the family and this moved me to study in more detail the report and the recent years that looked back on this issue. It concerns the number of refugees from family homes and institutions measured in hundreds. Understandably, it is difficult to prevent the escape of children from every family, but the question is why nothing is done when it comes to institutions under the jurisdiction of the ministry. The 2020 report itself reads: “The child’s tendency to leave the institution must not be an excuse not to look intensively for the child and not to take all the necessary actions to find and place it safely. This turns out that children are not being looked for enough. Reports from previous years go the same way. My question is that it's taken place on this issue whose statistics have been defeated. Also four years ago, you have been appealing for the establishment of protocols for missing children and Amber aller systems, and as far as I can see from these reports, the MUP was not ready for co-operation. Does this mean that the body mentioned does not respond to your recommendations and appeals or that you are not determined enough to protect children? The proposals for improvement from year to year are without any shifts. In several reports, your office recommends that a more up-to-date and high-quality missing persons website be run by the police.hr. And on today’s visit to the above - mentioned page, more than half of the children for whom no photo is available. So how do you look for a child if there's no picture? Most EU countries have an Amber Aller system in place. With us, it'll be utopia for a while. Apparently, our kids aren't that valuable to the MUP or something else. As a parliamentary representative and a mother, I expect answers to these questions both from your office and from the MUP as well as a concrete plan for more active search for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53719	We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric. I'm sorry, she's the first respected representative of Ban Vlahek. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53720	Thank you. I'm glad you've touched the theme of Roma children. At the time of the covid 19 pandemic wave, we face a low level of knowledge of expertise and inaccessibility and lack of knowledge of technology by parents and Roma children who made it impossible for children to participate in a remote school. 50% of the children did not regularly participate in the class. The enrolment in high school is also a difficult and difficult problem in this covid period because they are often helped by professional associates with whom they have not been in contact. Children in high school are missing mentors especially if they are in school outside the residence, and during the epidemic they were returned to the settlements. If policies cannot solve the residual segregation, education quality should be dealt with, and the covid epidemic has slowed us down further in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53721	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53722	Thank you, colleagues. Well, yeah, all those problems that aren't systematically solved have been particularly expressed now at the time of the pandemic. And instead of encouraging Roma children for school, because it's a big problem with them because many of them don't even finish primary school, and those who graduate never attend high school. This pandemic actually shut them out of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53723	Dear representative Maric. Don't kill yourself, don't devastate the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53724	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here are my colleagues and I come from Međimurje where we have a national minority so our Roma. You are already examples of your environment, and of course our Roma in Međimurje are facing it. But not only the Roma, but also many families with more children, with schoolboys who have either one pill or don't have it at all, Internet inaccessibility, lack of computers. On the other hand, the problem with insufficient protective equipment, lack of understanding of teaching, etc. According to you, who would have to get involved more and who would have to get involved more in solving this problem, whether the local self-government units, whether the resolution ministries, the government, or whether you think it should still be a joint job?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53725	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53726	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Maric. Well, we all need to get involved together and work together to improve the conditions of every child, including Roma children and unromantic children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53727	The next debate will be respected MPs Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53728	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed attorneys. Here in my presentation I will warn here about two topics related to the topics we are talking about, so with children and one topic I have said in replicas, and that is what we did not find now in the report by the Ombudsman about her work in the past year, which was, by all means, the year of the pandemic. But maybe it wasn't enough attention, and they're gifted children. So here in the entire report there are some activities here from just Split in one kindergarten were talked about and there was one presentation or round table about gifted children, and what's actually a problem so there's no system, we don't systematically worry about the needs of gifted children. So in Croatia, here is the gift as I said is defined under the rule on primary education and education. Gifted students are a combination of three common characteristics of the nat average general or specific abilities, high degree of creativity and motivation. However, that regulation was passed 30 years ago, and since then, we have a huge shift in the research of generosity, the view of gift and, above all, these scientific knowledge of how to define generosity. So, the draft new proposal for a regulation has been in the process since 2014. It hasn't been adopted to this day, and here I hope we'll work together on getting there as soon as possible. Why is it that when it comes to gifted children, so it is possible that these gifted children, if you know what they look like, get bored at school and then get a little restless from their boredom, and then they have problems to fit into such an environment, get into some conflicts with their peers, maybe the peers isolate them because in a different way they understand the world around them. Well, then, in the end, it's that we don't follow them properly, and we don't have some system that takes care of their needs that then they get into some kind of trouble again and some unwanted behavior. So, above all, it is important to educate educational professionals who are key to identifying and adequate work with gifted children. Is it important to recognize them from small legs and in some ways adapt both content and way to cooperate with them, their needs. I say, and it is important, therefore, that both parents and teachers cooperate, because they sometimes unwittingly make it difficult for the gifted children of everyday life, they expect a lot of them, they have high expectations, and then eventually these gifted children develop some emotional difficulties and behavioral problems. The second topic is that I already mentioned here at yesterday's meeting of the two committees, and also in the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, these are children with developmental difficulties from the spectrum of autism. So the data from the register of disabled persons is that in Croatia there are 2 thousand 451 children by the age of 17 with a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders. Parents are often found, so here is the Ombudsman’s report for people with disabilities, and we have several cases where parents say they have problems because here especially children at puberty are having problems with autism are extremely aggressive, auto-aggressive and therefore threatened with the functioning of the entire family. So you have cases where families address almost all the homes of social care throughout Croatia, but the homes answer so that they are not capacitated, they are unable to provide the child with accommodation. The problem of children therefore arises with autism and their families appear throughout Croatia. Parents are on their own. They don't have community support, they're not enough foster families to say that for healthy children, let alone for these children with autism. The preschool and school system does not know the inclusion, but only the outdated integration of children with autism with assistants in teaching that are not eventually educated again. Children with autism end up in institutions that we were long obliged to transform into community support centres. Families of children with autism also need a break from the stress of living with a child with autism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53729	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Maric. Stay here for a while. We have a replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53730	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have quite nicely cited the problem and the advantage of actually gifted children. In fact, we agree that gift - giving is not only seen through grades, but also through other aspects of the child’s characteristics. And we agree that in time, such characteristics should be recognized whether from the time of kindergarten, school, etc. Do we even have enough educational ways in Croatia to recognize gifted children? There's a little program I've been watching on the Internet that a man can see, but it seems to me it's very small. So who would have to have some important role to play if the ministry were to teach kindergarten educators, or school teachers, whether they might share their parents with brochures. How could you possibly recommend that gifted children be made easier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53731	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53732	Here's a thank you. So here's what we've agreed to right now, so that system doesn't work, or it doesn't exist. In the end, it all depends on the activity of the kindergarten teacher himself, the teacher himself, the school teacher, and the high school teacher. And if late recognition is not recognized in time by the gifts of children, I say children fall into what I said will be boring and then their boredom and frustration by having or not being interested in the contents then perhaps also passing on to other peers. How to solve this, in fact, with the cooperation of an entire system and of parents and children, or teachers. So, teacher education because it has a lot of them that are simply or overloaded, classes are too big, they don't have time to devote themselves to these gifted children. But then the system or through this whole system of education should somehow find ways to recognize them in time and then adjust the contents to them individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53733	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53734	My colleagues and colleagues, speaking on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, I spoke about what was missing in this report. First of all, the fundamental thing we missed was a special report, which is under Article 18. Article 2 The Law on Child's Ombudsman allows, and we did not get it in the situation of the Coron pandemic where the greatest limitation of the rights of every child in Croatia has occurred in history. I also pointed out that I am not repeating this to the fact that it is not enough to give recommendations, but should and should follow what is later, should be insisted, should be repeated, should be persistent, should be sound, and especially should be better communicated with all parliamentary clubs and all MPs, especially in those cases where clear recommendations are made, justified recommendations, justified, and not respected by the government. Now, in this speech, I'm going to say something briefly about the things that the D.A. was dealing with or that are in this report, and they weren't supposed to be there. I also have to say that this report is better than the last year's report we refused because there's a little less ideological doctoring in it. It's still there, so we won't accept this report, but we won't refuse it, we'll be restrained. But I'm recording progress compared to what happened last year. I'm telling myself as well as my colleagues from our club that we've both made our argumentative and truly well-intentioned criticism of the past report and contributed to it. Just before I heard my colleagues talking about the issue of migrant children, children on the move called this chapter. Some general tone in this report is on the line of some sort of moral burden and moral blackmail, both Croatia and the Croatian police over something that Croatia has nothing to do with and what is in Croatia and there is no problem. Why isn't there? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Those kids that come in, they don't want to stay here. Therefore, the official data are also listed in this report that out of 159 requests for international protection of children without escort in the first-degree procedure 145 has been suspended for leaving the shelter or institution prior to the end of the procedure. So, out of 159 requests 145 went straight away, they don't want to stay in Croatia, they want somewhere else. So it's not about someone running away to save their lives, that he needs a roof over his head to give food, but he wants to go to Germany, he wants to go to Sweden. Is it because he's better off there, because some people are close to him I don't know, but they don't want to stay with us and between us. Therefore, 145 of 159 immediately leaves as soon as possible and the other two requests have been rejected because the responsibility of another Member State of the European Economic Area for examining the request has been established and 12 requests have been rejected because they have been found to be adult persons who have been represented as minors. So, after all, nothing, zero. There is no such problem in Croatia. We're just transiting, we're one void in the space that they have to pass to get where they want to go. And let's not burden ourselves with a moral burden on our backs that we don't have and that's nonexistent. Also in this report, I express my dissatisfaction with the fact that since 2019, all legal bases have been abolished for the conduct of civil education and education as a mandatory electoral or university subject. It is only mandatory for him to conduct in all primary and secondary schools, which we believe is not enough. Why do you think that's not enough? I listened to it in Italy at Educatione Chivita High School is called there. Aldo Moro introduced him in '58. A little bit like a defamation. The Germans also had it, so they had it in East Germany after the fall of communism. We need to see if they've been through objects, in Italy they've held that twice a month history teacher. Is that enough as amongst the cases to learn what the Constitution is, which are laws, which are my rights as a citizen, which are obligations and the rest or need to overload children with another additional subject. She's not the attorney general who can pass that judgment. It's a more complex question and curricula and burden on children. The same is true of health education, where it is said to be advocated in primary and secondary schools in health care. It was also not fully implemented in 2020, but educational educational outcomes on health were achieved in the context of the health issues in question. We are not familiar with the realization of the topics in question or the monitoring of students' achievements. We're not familiar, but we're against this model and we're looking for a special object. So why didn't you get to know each other if you had 20 employees and 5 and a half million kunas was the problem with doing some little research and seeing if they were learning enough about each other, or if they needed a special subject. So, you can't push something that's not authorized, and where you're not aware of whether things stand the way they're being criticized.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53735	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53736	The first in public space I talked about was the mental health problem of children, and also the suicidal thoughts triggered by this corona crisis. But what I did first in public space didn't just happen. The first speech I gave in the Croatian Assembly of HINA was not delivered. The second time since I thought it was a matter of too important a subject, I wrote the entire text and published it on my profile, no one transmitted it. We also sent a statement, didn't cause an echo. I did it from the fourth because I didn't give up. I called a press conference on the same subject again, and then I just broke through to go public. Later, the parliamentary committees began, and we hope for concrete consequences for caring for the mental health of our children. What do you think a child counsel should do, and why does she give up just by warning the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53737	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53738	The data you presented on mental health is dramatic. This may be the worst data of all that we could get from the MUP, which was also received by the Ombudsman, which also states in this report from the increase in non-compliance in cases to the increase in use of children for pornography. In this mental health it's most worrying and I'm afraid the real consequences of this crown situation where children are isolated from each other, where they don't have a normal age relationship of growing up, socializing, moving in space that these consequences will only be seen. I'll go back to that need of insistence. It's not enough to just show up to get an application or to make some suggestions, but to see what happens later on in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53739	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You said your colleague Rasdic had no problem with the migrant children. So I would remind you that the International Border Violence Monitoring Network in 2020 established a group of data that was expelled at least 170 minors means children. Testimonies exist about violence, confiscation of personal items, money, etc. members of the family. Then without prejudice to international and national law without individual proceedings, they are deprived of the legal right to apply for international protection and remain entitled to health care, such as the right to health care. Well, here's the thing. I'd just like to warn you that I'm opposed to your statement that there's no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53741	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53742	Thank you. I'd like to be precise. So I said that there is no problem in Croatia. We act as European Union border guards according to the traditional "Croatian border guards are old". Here we are again in the same position. So, I will repeat this official information that 159 requests of children without escort for international protection no one has remained in Croatia. 145 goes straight where they want to go. They don't want to stay here because we're not good enough. Are we too poor? Are we too hungry? 12 lied. It was an adult, and two were responsible for other countries. We can't agree to moral blackmail. What does this international association you listed mean to me? Did they, for example, report here in 2018 there were children frozen, rained in front of the Croatian border? And then we find out that these migrants have raised children from a warm comfortable accommodation in Hotel Sedra near Bihać and brought them as a living shield into the border breach, so when they fail to keep them at the end of the Izačić crossing where those children are sneezed and placed in warm and safe places.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53743	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Bedekovic. [[/Intruder Rasdic: We should not agree to blackmail these terrorists. They use children as a means.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53744	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I will refer to that part of your debate in which you spoke about civic and health education and its realization or implementation in two possible ways as it is now carried out through inter-communicated topics, so through curricula and the desire to introduce civic education as a separate subject in a way that I would say one or another additional burden and impose another additional teaching subject. I would certainly agree with you, so I want your further explanation that the quality of the implementation of the course of civic and health education through inter-species topics, or through curriculously, should be seen what has been achieved and how far it has been achieved. So, do a good analysis and just then, based on an analysis, think about how to proceed with these contents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53745	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53746	I wish it were different. But we have to act pedagogical realistically, and we have some experience in the past. So, now that we're going to introduce a special subject with a full satin, who's going to teach it? Maybe the lawyers would teach it best because the most talk about the Constitution, about the laws on these things? In practice, however, this is not acceptable if children are overly burdened with the subject. We have had decades of Marxism classes, for example, so I do not notice that dialectic materialism has come to life among the Croatian people as an example of the world. So it's not said that we'll raise better citizens if it's overloaded. This should be appropriate for them, but the civic virtue must current through all other objects starting with the teaching of history, sociology, and so on. One more example I would like to give in this report, which bothered me, and that is to refer to the carnival in Imotski. There is obviously a lack of understanding of the tradition of carnivals especially in the Mediterranean context, because even the Spanish Inquisition did not touch the carnival when it laughed with both popes, both with honor and with bishops, and now we want to limit the carnival expression of people and it is in this Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53747	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53748	I've talked a lot about children's rights over the last year. First of all, the rights that are threatened by the current crises that we are in, the one that is potentiated by the earthquake and the one that is potentified by the crown. I was talking about violence against children, the inability to apply my right to protect the welfare of a child in Article 173. The penal law that grew by an incredible 81%, the children's rights at the time of the corona crisis did not exist, exploited for pornography and how much violence against children has increased. I also paid special attention to schooling children because it is usually one of the topics I focused on as well as the mental health of children at the time of this crisis. When I asked the question about what the lawyer was doing and what the lawyer should do in such situations, and when I realized that I was the first in public space to come out with the question of mental health of children was not the goal of such a move that I am here to boast. Because I certainly can do my job much better than the goal of showing how hard it is to get to know something at all as a problem and how many times you have to break through four, five, six, seven times say the same thing to anyone at all. And here I think that this office should and may be more proactive. Some people get a whiff about why we question the work of different lawyers. There is no person who is in a more direct relationship with us and who is more important to us than the defense attorneys. Unlike those of us who are here theoretically dealing with what we do for the benefit of our citizens as our attorneys, as our extended hand is those who can help these citizens on the ground. And that's why we need them, and we have to keep calling for order, and that's why they talk about them with the most criticism, because they're what we can't be, and we let them be who they are. And now I'm going to focus on one particular problem. I've been a Croatian defender since 1991, a professional soldier 18 years a member of the Thunderbolts, a father of four children. The youngest Rocco is 12 years old. The earthquake in Petrinja left me without an apartment, the building has a red sticker, and temporarily for two months with the family stayed in Sinj with his wife's family. I applied for a place in a container village at the Fair in the first month, but no one contacted us. Since the school started, my son is a fifth grade student of the First Primary School in Petrinja we returned and came personally to the headquarters. The answer was that everything was filled and that we could get alternative accommodation if we had some land, that they would deliver some mobile home or container. On the day of 5.3.2021 from the Civil Protection Directorate, they came to look at the land that our friend gave us and then no one contacted us. Since the teaching started we had no accommodation, the Shako family offered our son Roko temporary accommodation. The state didn't react, we felt helpless, forgotten by everyone. Do you see what happened? The family was separated after the earthquake in Petrinja family received no accommodation at all, but thousands of them, and this is just one example separated. And a child to be able to attend classes is temporarily located with another family. The election has passed, not to go further into the peripetia they've been going through. We are afraid that the start of the new school year will be re-separated from the child who, with the trauma, suffers from the earthquake, is an excellent student and football player, NK Mladost Petrinja. When you hear from the authorities that you're not a priority even though you have a school kid and a defender, you hear from the kids, "Why don't they connect our electricity? Is that a terrible problem? Dad, why are they ignoring us? Why aren't they experiencing us?" And what does the man say? Ivan Marđeko, Croatian defender: "No climate with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia poses and generously presents us in Petrinje these days. All we need is electricity to cook lunch and unload the Player." That's what some families are reduced to. Why do we insist on a special report that will address the exact problem of earthquakes and injured areas and crowns. And in conclusion, let me set up a key reading because this is just one example. And in this particular and all others, we are most concerned about the problems of children and Croatian citizens, will you react that this will never happen again and that this particular case will be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53749	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative of Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53750	Taking into account the scope of the work that the Ombudsman's Office is doing for children and the results I'm standing on the issue that it's too busy, 20 employees. On the other hand, though, I think some of the frames are missing. We talked about it, and this report shows, and I'm commending it more than in the last one where only the brother-in-law was mentioned in one sentence, that children are getting more and more on the Internet. Now classes have been transferred online, their association, their relationships structured by new media, social networks, applications through which they communicate. In addition to all the positive and all the negative and all the problems that now live through these new media, it seems to me that in this office I should, and I said so last year as soon as possible to hire an expert on this digital environment or an expert on new media as you will. It can be a psychologist who has and has knowledge and works in new media or can be a communicologist who enters these problems specifically. A simple fight for children and for the well-being of our children is increasingly taking place in this new digital space for which I do not think the office is sufficiently educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53751	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53752	There was another information that there was no talk at all in the Croatian public space and it was about the police report for 2019. Unfortunately, we do not have any more recent reports and what it says, which is that one part of the problem our children spend time in digital space including now their education and all the contents they find there, and another dramatic increase in juvenile crime regarding digital space. digital space. So that's a terrible problem we haven't talked about at all. So other than all these problems that we are somewhat familiar with and which our attention should be focused on, crime is growing underage on the Internet because it's an unexplored space that has opened up and where young people fall back into black holes and suffer. And when we talk about special reports, it's important to point out these specific people with their specific personal stories that it doesn't turn out that we're doing something abstract here because we'd love to have more reports and tell someone that it wasn't a good job. There are concrete lives, concrete children, and specific stories behind each question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53753	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Attorneys, State Secretary, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to commend the detail of the report and the different aspects of the rights of the children to whom the lawyer... In particular, I would like to highlight children's participation in the need to participate children in making decisions that concern them. [[You don't understand.]] But now I would look back again as a colleague of the health care system does to children. The Covida-19 disease pandemic and epidemiological protection measures have affected access to health care and put challenges to achieving the best standards in child care everywhere in the world. But in Croatia, the problem is that professional societies have taken measures that were not in line with the recommendations of international organisations, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and in some areas such practices have, unfortunately, caused more damage than the effects of Covida-19 and, in the long term, unmistakable consequences in the framework of children's health and mental health. During the pandemic, newborns and women suspected of having Covid or without symptoms waited for test results routinely separated from their mothers in two Croatian hospitals means Mercur Hospital and Bjelovar General Hospital. However, the health minister did not take any actions to prevent it. And in other hospitals, skin contact on the skin of mothers and newborns, which we know how important it is, is reduced after delivery, as well as breast-feeding support, although it is of course essential for the health of newborns during the pandemic. It is also such a practice, contrary to scientific evidence that since the start of the pandemic and the coronary virus, therefore the coronary virus, Covida-19, pointed out the importance that mother and child should be continuously together after delivery. Infants born prematurely or born ill, especially of course, were separated from their parents without being able to visit or with very strict restrictions somewhere even once a week for a few minutes. I don't have time to quote all these percentages now, but I'll only say that during the lockdown, the percentage of only breast-feeding children was only 41.32%, and this shows in fact the urgent need to adopt a national plan to support breastfeeding and diet children in crisis situations. But also, of course, the focus of support on particularly vulnerable groups and women and children living in smaller and isolated places where this percentage is significantly lower. Breast-feeding is, of course, one of the best natural protections, and it is necessary to promote breast-feeding in crisis situations, not to make it impossible. It is also important to note that there are currently 50 pediatric teams missing from Croatia after the last studies, and unfortunately the entire places and islands remain without paediatric care. For example, in Brač where there are about a thousand 300 children no longer have pediatricians and this is a problem that is constantly being talked about. However, nothing has done to change this trend. It was also during the crown of the crisis and lockdown observed insufficient patronage. Then there was a problem with newborns and going to regular and preventive examinations, which together affected health outcomes and quality of life later. Finally, we must also mention the inability to stay with our hospitalized children, which, of course, is systematically ignored by the need and best interests of the child to have their parents along with their own during the examination and search. These are all the problems that have hit thousands of newborns and young children last year who should have and had the right to best health care. In its report on the Ombudsman's report, the need has not been addressed at all, which is particularly problematic if we know that it is systematic and long-term problems and bad practices towards children. And in the end, I think it's necessary to conclude that it would be important for all the attorneys to write a thematic report on the state of law in the field of their work... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53755	Thank you. We have two replicas...... /Invader Raukar Gamulin:... pandemics and earthquakes. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53756	I agree with you, Comrade Raukar. This is an important topic you've opened. Let’s say one related problem, which shows the absurdity of the treatment of pregnant women and families as well as newborns in this situation, is the fact that it was allowed arbitrarily to decide whether a father should be present at birth in such a way that each hospital could assess how to deal with it, so some asked for quick tests that made sense. Okay, you get it, you get the labor, and you get there in a hurry, that quick test shows you're not infected, and your father can attend the birth. What is important for creating an entire pleasant environment in which the child will later develop. However, some others requested PCA tests, etc. So what? You knock on the belly and then ask hello I'm sorry when you're going to be born to make sure Dad gets here in time for the test so he can be present at your birth. And then the kid in the womb texted his parents and announced his arrival so they could do that test.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53757	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53758	Thank you, colleague Rasudiæ, for also pointing out another issue related to birth and rights and mothers and fathers and, of course, newborn children. Unfortunately, this whole period of lockdown and the pandemic Covida-19, we have witnessed systematic violations of rights and mothers and children, and we have witnessed these difficulties both at birth, both in breastfeeding and in providing health care, that unfortunately, regardless of the warnings and very clear instructions of world organisations that they have been deaf to this in Croatia. And that's why we think it would be necessary to actually create a national crisis management plan in relation to all of these aspects that we've talked about so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53759	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53760	Dear colleagues of Raukar, referring to what you said about children's health and children's rights in the crown of the crisis, I'd like to hear your opinion, but specifically in the Parliament. A few days ago in the Croatian public, it began to talk about the vaccination of children, the vaccination of children against Covid-19, which will start after summer, which will not be mandatory, but we also know that what is not mandatory in some ways can always be done by those who do so have certain privileges or there are no restrictions that others will have. So now I'm interested in taking into account the risk of children developing severe illnesses, some of the worse consequences. On the other hand, what can be the risk of the vaccine if it was produced a year ago where the period of 5, 10 years has not passed, or how many are all vaccines that have passed the vaccines. What is your position on this matter of possible vaccination of children against Covida-19... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53761	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53762	Thank you, colleague Rasudic, for asking. So as we know, I'll be sure, I supported all mandatory vaccinations. I don't have an anti-vaxer attitude. Although I personally have some important pediatricians as friends, I mean pediatricians in important places in Zagreb's head hospitals when they listen to debates about vaccinations. In particular, for Covid-19 and vaccination, I will manage the attitudes of the profession and I will certainly adhere to those thoughts of the profession and sciences that are best for both children and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53763	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative, Marijan Pavliček. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Then the honourable representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go. Do you want to come to a pay phone or give up your speech?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53764	Thank you very much. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues, I don't know why the vice president's nervousness. Where's it coming from? ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53765	First because you can't wait when you're called, and secondly because we have two serious points and we'll probably stay till midnight, maybe later, and then we can't wait for someone to decide whether to come for a pay phone or not. It's just that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53766	I wouldn't give myself up in a debate with you, but during the cleaning of this pay phone from such a famous Corona virus, of course it's your turn not to be behind a pay phone at that time. I can't have two people at the pay phone. However, I would talk here about very important topics and important topics, children. When we talk about children, I would just say here that in the Republic of Croatia all children do not have, do not use the same rights that the law gave them and prescribed them as well as the Constitution. Every child should have the possibility, every parent should have the right to have that child as a childcare facility. In the Republic of Croatia there is very little work or nothing, so the kindergarten system is essentially preschool in the face of chaos. As early as in Barcelona in 2000, the European Council made a decision, i.e. In conclusion, a resolution saying that by 2020 90% of children were targets for all members of the European Union to achieve that goal. In the Republic of Croatia, however, 40% of the local community has no option, is not prepared for various reasons probably financial, probably not able to build them. It's mostly undeveloped municipalities on the edges, on the peripheries that are forgotten. It's the most evicted area of the population. 40% of local self-government has no ability or capacity for a kindergarten. What do we have to do? So in other countries of the European Union, countries where less developed areas or regions have co-financed kindergartens to reach that standard of developed parts of the country. There's absolutely nothing going on in us about that. We're all calling for demographics. I said this morning, when I took over Sinj recently then 183 children were not enrolled in kindergarten, 183 children and of course I have to find a solution by the new year. I don't care and hate those who were before me. I won't comment. But it's sad that in 2020, when parents have to have what they need as a major demographic measure, it's a job. And secondly, the possibility of having a place to leave their child but not to guard it, but from 3 to 6 years old, that child would have to, that preschool education should be a educational institution. Not guard. So he says you have some alternative for someone to look after the baby. Are these children proven by research far more successful in the ability to use kindergarten? And the only demographic measure is the right place to work and to allow every child and parents who work to have a place to leave their children not in a way to keep them, but to be in preschool. Why doesn't the state do anything about Croatia? I don't know. But the Croatian state, the central state should take over co-financing mainly in areas where it is not possible to finance, are not the ability of local self-government units to follow it financially and very little is said of it. We have other injustices. We have an injustice I'll tell you an example here of setting up the base stations. I don't know if you're aware that literally overnight the children are being placed in my Sinj I'll almost come with the mark to remove those base stations that are placed under the window of the children. That can't happen in Austria. It can't happen in Germany, but it happens to our children because it's not proven that they don't harm our children's health. So many examples. Well, we have that in certain parts, but it's fixed itself and I'm glad that all children in primary school have the right to free textbooks in the Republic of Croatia. For a time, it was Zagreb and certain other cities. It was my first amendment that I gave here and I was in Sinj when I was able through the amendment so solved when she took over the county, so the state and I'm glad. So our children don't even have medical services in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia pediatrician and everything. We could talk a lot, and it's a big deal for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53767	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Selak Rasudić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53768	Dear colleague Bulj, we are aware that not all children in Croatia have equal opportunities. The Club of Representatives of Mosta has just given amendments during the debate on the Rebalancing of the Budget that these opportunities are at least made more equal for children with special needs and, for example, for children in Dalmatia who have no playground at all. So they don't have the childhood we consume here under normal conditions in a big city in the centre of Croatia in Zagreb. Of course our amendments were rejected. However, the problem has not disappeared. He continues to exist. As the current mayor of Sinja, can you say anything about what conditions children are in, and can they even have a place to play both in Sinj and in the whole of Dalmatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53769	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53770	Well, once there was a debate about children, but that's it. It was the lawyer's theme of sports. So in sport, the most important sports infrastructure is in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. We have capital projects such as the Arena Hall in Zagreb, such as in Split where billions have spent and today local self-government has huge financial difficulties to finance, while at the same time in 2/3 of Croatian children literally do not have the opportunity to see what a sports hall with a parquett looks like. And that's what's sad that we don't have the same conditions that children develop and have the same development opportunities in this case in sport and culture. We need to do everything that we can to ensure that we do not have centralised large facilities in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. 9 The halls of Sanader came to mind, how many 6, 7 halls that are not worth today. Splitska has problems, and while in our areas where it should... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53771	Thank you. Replica of the respected representative Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53772	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you were talking about kindergartens that are absolutely necessary. There is no demographic renewal without the conditions and preconditions of infrastructure. So I would just remind, through measure 741 that went through the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development at the time 233 kindergartens were built precisely in our rural areas. And what I can tell you and the Croatian public that this measure will probably continue in the future and that this is one of the basic conditions and preconditions for all to have equal conditions, especially when it comes to children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53773	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53774	That 741 is the measure that it is and now it's going to start at 15. Seven, I think. Unfortunately, here I can say as the newly elected mayor of Sinj City that these were not absolutely used or cared for by the former authorities. I'm sorry that the heads of my anti-candidians from your party are even as the heads of my office he went on an annual basis. She's probably planning maternity care now. Love for Sinj absolutely did nothing about it. It's probably just that and carelessness means local authorities or leaders do something. And of course, here I am, as mayor now, going to do everything possible for us to even get the chance to run in such a short time and get there. However, the aim for me in Sinj is to immediately bridge it in the 9th month, regardless of the project, to find space and expand kindergarten regardless of the legal provisions that are unfair. One refers to Zagreb, one to Split according to the number in the institution of children, so now my goal is... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53775	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53776	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you that we must work hard and provide our children with as much and as best as possible. But as counterpart Ivanovic said, indeed, it measures 741 investments in kindergartens, especially in rural areas, also allowing municipalities and cities to run and to secure grants, means in all those rural areas and settlements less than 5,000 inhabitants. Equally, since June 7th, a competition has been opened and opened. So at the beginning of this month, 250 million kunas were provided to them, among other things, with investments in kindergartens. We have investments in two-way work. The Central State Office for Demography and Youth also signed 103 contracts this year with different municipalities, cities and counties for investments in kindergartens so that I believe that we are real and we are working as a state and there is a European Fund from which you will be able to withdraw funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53777	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53778	In order not to repeat what I told your colleagues before we must use EU funds. However, numerous units of local self - government do not have enough funds to pay the aunt and open one place regardless of having former school premises or perhaps even kindergartens. So the state right now in the country is the fact that we don't have enough for all the kids to enroll all the kids in kindergarten. From the third year to the sixth year, the Croatian State committed itself to achieving 90% of children's enrollment in kindergarten by 2020, 2000. That's the goal. It's not just a target. It's a target. It's a workplace. The goal is to have the conditions of a decent life. The goal is recently what has been promised in the election campaign to be realized, not just to paint and paint the first me and everyone else. Therefore, we have opportunities but rural areas, border areas are forgotten and have no capacity to pay for their aunts in kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53779	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maximchuk, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53780	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Advocate, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what to say after more than four hours of discussion by my predecessors that they haven't already said that. But let me begin by first commending the Attorney General's report, of course, her cooperation with the institutions. The report states that the Advocate's Office received 1923 new applications, complaints or requests concerning violation of the rights of the child, which is 10% growth at the annual level. New applications were followed by 574 cases transferred from previous years. There were also 1158 cases concerning general initiatives, reports, co-operation with state and international institutions. The 19th pandemic of Covid, two devastating earthquakes that struck Zagreb and neighbouring counties, certainly changed the lives of all of us in Banovina, especially affecting children. The introduction of remote teaching has made it difficult to exercise the right to education of children who did not have the conditions for teaching on the Internet. Just this morning, in his debate, counterpart Stier referred to a UNICEF report that said that a billion children were damaged because they were unable to monitor teaching remotely. Thank God there wasn't such an alarming condition, but there were certainly individual problems. What you would particularly refer to are children with developmental difficulties who have run out of schools, kindergartens, but also a number of other services they receive in special institutions, physiotherapists, logos, working therapists, psychologists and others. There are also children who have been in hospital treatment, who have been without their parents, or even parental visits. In 2020, which was, in which children were mostly more than ever with the Internet, everything was with digital classes, socializing, games. And just as it says in the attorney general's conclusion, they put everything on hold and I'm about to read these two sentences that say almost everything. Children, like patient users of social services, were on hold for almost 9 months in 2020. They were waiting for information about when their schools and kindergartens would open and under what conditions, waiting for them to come to their home Internet and a computer that could track the school in the distance, waiting for information about their graduation, waiting for exams and therapy, waiting for parents in hospitals and homes for children, waiting for them to return to their earthquake-deprecated homes, to come help and protection from domestic violence, to go out to the park and playgrounds, to hang out with their friends, to move on to their favorite activities. And what do you say for 2020? It was heavy and, of course, it didn't happen again. On us who are engaged in public affairs, especially policy-making work to improve the legislative framework that will raise the quality of health, social services, of course and children's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53781	Thank you, too. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53782	Thank you. According to the 2020 data, the Office of the Child's Attorney General received 76 reports concerning domestic violence and 64 reports relating to child neglect in the family. These data are not an indication of the real extent of the problem, as they only point to certain specific difficulties, i.e. phenomena in the functioning of the child protection system against violence. However, according to the MUP, the number of child rights violations was 1849 last year which was 44% higher compared to the previous year. It is evident that tens of thousands of violations under the Family Violence Protection Act have been prosecuted. These frightening data are ringing on the alert because we have an extremely worrying increase in all forms of domestic violence, and this is about direct physical and psychological abuse of children. I would draw attention to the fact that homes are full, and yet in 2020. Only 29 children from the same homes were adopted. Deinstitutionalization as if it didn't exist. The foster care bill is bad, and it keeps people away from foster care. Homes cannot be closed because they have nowhere to go with children, and you have no place to send biological families to eventually learn how to be better parents while measuring family legal protection centers for social care can be better applied. Since children have no place to stay especially for long - term accommodation on the basis of improvements in biological parents, they are returned to biological parents as was the case of an unhappy girl where the attitude was that in the child’s family there was a moderate risk, and the father of children had 23 criminal reports of which 7 were for domestic violence. And that's how we keep going round and round and round and round. Children who could have been singled out and adopted have long welcomed adulthood in the care of the system and with traumas of psychological and physical abuse. This crisis situation has increased the risk because it leads to a disturbance in the functioning of family life, and it is very important that the system functions as a safety net for our youngest and we must do absolutely everything to protect these small lives. The esteemed attorney system does not function and in time does not detect certain risks and does not move on time in the process of separating children from such risk families. Here I think that the system of education and education, the health system, the social care system is unfortunately not recognised or sufficiently protected by children's rights. Surely we would not have such an increase in the number of violence, and unfortunately with very tragic outcomes and the recommendations you write year by year in these reports are not systematically applied and are we really doing everything to prevent this amount of violence. The ministry seems to have raised its hands and has no awareness that children can't wait for new laws. The Social Care Act we've been waiting for for years, the Household Act that announced the changes for some time. The strategies that have been announced, rather than need help immediately and now. We don't protect enough children's rights, we reduce items on a budget related to a child's allowance even by 330 million kuna, we don't do everything we can to protect children from child poverty. The ministry has mechanisms and are familiar with the problems you also warn about. But time passes and the consequences of inaction each day leave consequences for the psychophysical development of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53783	You have one replica of Mr. Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53784	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I would like to comment on a subject listed in the report. It is a topic of children and minors found in the territory of the Republic of Croatia without the escort of older people. Their care so far has been carried out exclusively through the institutions of social care along with all other children including, of course, Croatian citizens. So far, no householding has been recorded, primarily because of the problem of language and cultural barriers, and we now see through the report or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that through the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, education and translators, cultural modernators, social workers, of course all other stakeholders in providing social care and that this problem, of course, I assume will continue, and that we will successfully address it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53785	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53786	I thank you for your comment and interest in this topic. This is also a specific topic and we are all familiar with certain cases when such children are cared for without escorts and what certainly happens that the system does not show a spotive response. And there are delays in that part too, and it does not react quickly enough to protect children’s rights. This is certainly so because the system generally does not have enough experts to respect children's rights in the way that the Convention and regulations, or laws that we have prescribed. What's the problem, anyway, is tracking. We should have available to experts information on the course of childcare, on the care of their daily needs, and on the inclusion of them at a wider level, means plans for their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53787	Thank you. We don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Katica Glamuzina's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53788	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer to a part of the Ombudsman's report on children's educational rights. A large part of this report rightly refers to children with developmental difficulties. However, as children with special needs, Croatian law recognises children with developmental difficulties and gifted children only from opposite sides of the aspect. However, although the law recognizes them as such, gifted children are systematically neglected, and even could be said in this report. They are mentioned only in principle, and in part of the report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office in Split, because there was a workshop on this subject. In the recommendations given by the Ombudsman in the part of the educational rights, there is not a single one that refers directly and relevant to the protection of the rights of gifted children, as these children are legally guaranteed certain rights. How we could hear in the presentation in this year's report did not pay attention to them because some other things were more relevant, but because of such and similar excuses, gifted children have been systematically ignored for many years. In accordance with the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, I now quote the detection and monitoring and promotion of gifted students is the obligation of school as well as the organisation of additional work in accordance with the preferences, abilities and interests of gifted students. The school is required systematically during the school year to identify gifted students, work with them under a special programme, monitor their progress, and compile reports. However, this does not happen systematically. There are rare examples of such practices that are exceptional, and these exceptional situations arise when a gifted student meets with so to say a gifted teacher whose exclusive personal will and engagement depend on further work with a gifted child. And that's the real problem with this lack of systematic access. Understandably, teachers in a class with a lot of children generally have no time and can especially devote themselves to rare ones who are gifted, especially if they are not obliged to do so. However, it is not understandable that schools and ministries do not find other ways to protect the law-defined rights of gifted children, I am talking about the rights these children have. If there is an institute of assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties why not also apply to gifted children, why are there no programmes built to enrich educational content? Why does the state budget keep neglecting the funding of any programme for gifted children despite numerous amendments that have come this time by opposition? Why is the Ombudsman’s office systematically failing to act actively on the rights of gifted children? Their problems aren't less important just because they're in front of the curve, not the back. What we fail to understand all together is that the problems facing today’s gifted children will reflect on the problems of our entire beautiful ones. Instead of investing yesterday in adequate development of these children so that they would one day be the bearers of the scientific, economic, social development of our country, we ignore them and thus condemn ourselves to slow decline, and they, like most of our world-renowned scientists, will contribute to the development of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53789	Thank you, too. You have one replica of Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53790	Here's my dear colleague, so we were talking about the same subject, this when you said that everything finally falls, depends on the man, if we have a gifted teacher, if we have a gifted teacher who will then pay attention to the gifted children, but as you stated in the law, there is a obligation to take care of these gifted children. Do you think we might have those places for an educational inspection? Why are educational inspections in our schools when they evaluate work and watch whether it is in accordance with the law whether they are ever and do you know about this case or why they have not noticed that these legal obligations are not being fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53791	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53792	Of course there is room for educational inspection and for various other mechanisms, but the basic prerequisite is good will, the basic prerequisite is to recognize it as a problem. They are not systematically recognized as a category of children who need additional attention because, as I said, they are ahead of the curve so what further help we are going to help them, but we are missing out on the understanding that by helping them, we are helping our entire society. Educational inspections are also needed, but I must stress the necessary and additional work of the Advocate's Office on the subject because if it cannot on this issue. This office, not necessarily she personally do something and urinate difficulties here systematically to come up with any excessive solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53793	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. It is now up to Mrs Katarina Peovic, who will speak finally on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, the peasant workers' front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53794	Good afternoon, everyone. I'm glad you're back as chairman, I'll try to explain why it was important to let me explain the break in two minutes and try to warn you not to interrupt me another time. So why? [[I'll answer when you're done. Here you go.]] First of all, I must say first of all that I am sorry that you did not provide a break for everyone to come out and support the workers of the "Storms" who waited four hours at 32 degrees for the prime minister to take them to the meeting. I have to say that maybe even the attorney general could have noticed the importance of this topic because it has something to do with this report, so I'm going to try to explain why. So the workers of the Orly were 300 now 120 months away from receiving their salary and working on the Minimal. Indeed, when we talk about children’s rights, we cannot ignore their material needs and material living conditions that are key regardless of all institutional support for gifted, not gifted children etc. Without the material conditions of life, we really can't talk about some good conditions. This report is more concerned with certain segments of labour and labour law which are just warning that this is really important and that nothing can replace these safe material conditions of work and life, and in the section of the covid crisis. So it is said that here the situation of covid-19 and the difficulties of organising daily childcare, since the outbreak of the epidemic, many parents have said to the Ombudsman and addressed her because of the difficulties in organising daily childcare due to the suspension of the regular work of kindergartens and schooling, informing her that they do not have the ability to work from home or the paid absence of work that would not endanger the existence of the family or other possibility of child care while they are working. So this is a very common situation, and this is a situation where the workers of the Orjave were in a much more difficult situation because it's that three months have not been paid, and now they've been talking to the prime minister, they're still expected to come to work, if they're expected to come to work, they're paying themselves the costs of going to work and they don't have any income. Some of them are single mothers, I asked them, so they're single mothers and they had this situation. So they worked, unlike other companies, something small was reduced, but they worked and had to go to work in covid, and the kindergarten was not, and it is precisely this situation that is in a very difficult, generally material situation where our textile workers work largely because we know that the textile industry is the weakest paid, or the lowest wages, and that's where mostly women work. Such people have spoken, and these workers are some example of such a group that they cannot organize these activities, or they cannot provide children. And most of these parents, and so I asked these workers that I spent some time with at 32 degrees waiting for the prime minister to take them to the meeting had this very situation that kindergartens and schools didn't work, so that they couldn't provide child care in the current situation, they didn't have the possibility of some of them or trusting children to look after grandparents because of their high age or the risk of covida-19 disease, and some parents were really forced, and that's exactly what this report warns and it's a really dramatic situation, leaving a child at home alone has no other conditions. I mean, kids who were too young to stay at home stayed home because they had no other choice, especially these kids in class or they'd leave them at their neighbors' house or they'd be alone at home. In any case, all the solutions were not adequate. This report also says that in some families both parents had a job obligation, so when you have a cop's father, a nurse's mother and they both had to be at work, right? Some parents said the report suggested or referred them to the use of annual vacations to care for children, which seemed inappropriate in a situation that was uncertain how long it would last. So if they take an annual thought, they have to use it, and we don't know how long that pandemic will last. All of this can be reportedly applied to many, but it could certainly also be applied to the workers of the “Orljave” who were working in covid, who are doing repeat for the minimumer, so that they are just one specific group to which this should be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53795	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica. About your question very simply, when you asked for half an hour's rest for the Parliament to go out to support the strike, as much as I would go out with you to support the strike, and you know that I have such sensitivity, I mean that my role can't be like the Speaker of the Parliament, so you started. That's why now that there's so few of us, etc. I want to tell you this isn't about any sensitivity, about any depravity, it's about the lawyer's report, and the question for your break is that we're all going to support the strike together. I'm telling you, I would go myself, but I can't ask as chairman, I think it would be precedent in any parliament. We'll talk about it. Mr. Nino Rasdic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53796	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The last report did not satisfy us, we voted against last year, this year the Mosta Club will be abstentioned in voting on this report, which means that some progress is seen. Our fundamental grudge this year goes to the fact that we have not received a special report on the state of children's rights in the environment of the pandemic corona, which we consider to be a major failure because if in this situation we are now not going to use this possibility from art. 18th century 2. The Law on Child's Ombudsman when it will be used because we are in a situation where, I will repeat once again, every child in Croatia is in a way limited and some human rights violated. I hope that we will receive this special report in the fall, especially as it is certain that we will also have a strong public debate after the summer if these announcements continue on the vaccination of children against covida-19. Our general position that I will repeat once again is that the attorney's offices need to be united in one office and they need to be rationalized. 20 people $5.5 million a year simply don't justify this range of work that we're offered to do in this report. In that sense, the observation is the same as last year, which is that it is not enough to write recommendations, that it is not enough to take note of the knowledge and hold a Zoom conference and so on. but it is necessary to insist, so knock on that door again and again on those who can make changes and improve communication with parliamentary representatives and clubs. I am convinced that most of us are at our disposal in our parliamentary work and in everyday practice to present these problems that do not find a solution, although they are clearly detected, even though recommendations by the Ombudsman have been made. As far as these matters are concerned, I will repeat briefly what is in the report, and they should not be dealt with by the Ombudsman, I have touched the situation somewhat hazy and unclear about the children of migrants where it turns out that of all those who requested international protection in Croatia at the end of the day, 95% immediately went further to third countries for 12 have been found to be minor, and for two children other countries were responsible, so zero zero. It is not a problem that exists with us, I will repeat it once more, not create a moral panic and impose on myself a moral responsibility for something that we are not responsible for except as good European border guards, it is a very different story. Also, the issue of introducing civic and health education as separate subjects is a complex issue that needs to be discussed at the level of curricula of school and child burdens or not burdens, and also the practical effects of such cases in countries, such as Italy that is close to me, so I also had a student to listen to this civic education... as they call them, I would not say by all the political developments in Italy in recent years and decades that it has received some results. Some things are a reference that I think are absolutely inappropriate for this report, such as a critical reference to the carnival in Imotsky. Carnival has its place in Christian tradition, especially the Mediterranean, it's a time of a twisted world where there are no rules and everything is suspended for that short time, and even the sacred inquisition that has been very zealously performing its existence has not fallen into what happened at the time of the carnival, and I think it's totally inappropriate in the attorney's report for children to bring the grades of a nun. This time I repeat, some of the traps that existed in the last report were avoided, some of the other things being processed in more detail. I would point out once again the need for human strengthening through at least one person who would be an expert in psychology or sociology of new social media networks because it is an area where our children are increasingly living and constructing their personal and social relations. There are major violations of children's rights and there is a need to team up professionally further in this area. So, this time we'll be restrained, we were against it last year. I really want everything best in the work and the D.A. and her team and to allow us next year for the next report to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53797	Thank you, too. I didn't know about the Inquisition thing either, but maybe she didn't chase them because they were masked so she couldn't recognize them, who she knew. Mrs. Sandra Bencic is in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53798	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, attorneys and associates. So, once again, we would like to point out that the Green-Left bloc club is satisfied with both the report and the content itself, the coverage of the topic, the number of topics, but also the fact and the way they are reasoned with both the figures and the allegations and presentation of the individual cases you have dealt with. So what we would like to highlight as specific problems and recommendations that we would particularly like to stand on are all those recommendations concerning the prevention and mystification of the consequences of child poverty or the economic and social status of children, especially the fact that this status, their status, is related to the status of their parents and that the state, but also local self-government units, is specifically invited to help. It would also specifically refer to the fact that our children live in inadequate conditions, that some still live in containers in conditions in which they cannot sleep in this heat, which in winter are extremely inadequate, and that in fact they are not yet done enough. We also talked a lot about the pandemic, the absolute issue of mental health of children, but also about access to education and services during the pandemic is one of the key issues and we also feel that there should be support for all the recommendations that are mentioned. I was talking about children on the move, and I'm going to say now that some of our proposals are going to be, and I would also draw attention to the issue of homelessness or inadequate accommodation in the middle of executive proceedings and the seizure of property by parents when they are the subject of executive proceedings due to their debts. We also believe that when it comes to the loss of home in such cases because we are talking not only about apartment or home but about home, it is the duty of the state to provide adequate accommodation to both parents and children, especially when it comes to children. However, what we have seen is that the recommendations as well as good as they have been elaborated, reasoned by either your attorney-general, whether by the attorney general, the counselor for gender equality or the counselor for persons with disabilities, that they unfortunately remain unimplemented and that there is no mechanism for them, in fact, by means of which we as a Parliament could control the Government whether the government was going to implement these recommendations. For this reason, the Green-Left bloc club has come to the conclusion today, a proposal for a conclusion that will come to this House, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with reporting every two months from September of each year on the activities it has taken in relation to the recommendations of the Ombudsman, you for children, gender equality and persons with disabilities in relation to the 2020 reports. to obtain a continuous control mechanism on whether these recommendations are truly respected and implemented. The second conclusion we put into the procedure today is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose, within 90 days of the date of adoption of that conclusion, to amend the Law on International Temporary Protection as well as the Law on Foreigners in order to ensure that, in accordance with international recommendations, but not only recommendations but international contracts which are in force above the law, the prohibition on the accommodation of children on the move including children without escort to detention centres. So, we're talking about institutions that are exclusively and should be for adults not for children or any other institution of a closed type that is not intended for the accommodation and care of children. So this includes all children and children without escorts, of course, because we believe that regardless of the fact and the illegal crossing of the border, the committing of violations, etc. that children should not be placed in such institutions but in adequate institutions as Croatian citizens would be if they had committed a certain offence or criminal offence, so it may be a educational institution or some other kind of institution, but we cannot place children in Ježjevo. So we would like to strengthen the mechanism of the recommendations of all the ombudsmans, including this because we believe, in particular, that we care equally about everyone in this assembly about these recommendations and these issues, but we need to have a mechanism of control over the Government whether they are implemented. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53799	Thank you, too. And now, in the end, the prosecutor for children, Mrs. Pirnat Dragicevic, will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53800	Thank you. Here I thank you, here I would like to thank you at the end of this long-term debate for the contribution and discussion of children's rights in Croatia in 2020. As you yourself have heard and have witnessed here, we have touched really many topics, many topics beginning and seeing for yourself how many there are in relation to children and which are actually a broad spectrum covering, and this is one of the reasons why this report is so extensive, or what it contains a large number of data since it must apply to all children's rights because all children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child are equal levels, or equally important. You see, through this debate, you yourself have been able to testify on what many topics my valuable team, a multidisciplinary team at the office is dealing with every day, jumping off the subject sometimes, and for that reason I can't really keep my mouth shut, or I can't look back on that one proposal that made me a little sad, and that's about joining defense institutions. In fact, with a number of arguments for which we may not have time to discuss the merger of specialised attorneys into one institution, it would certainly represent one particularly bad for children, it would not be in the child's best interests, and the most important argument is that adult rights in many cases are in conflict with children's rights and in decision-making in such cases, or in such situations, children usually fail. That is why children deserve a specialised institution, a specialised institution that will exclusively deal with their rights. Also what she would like to remind everyone in the end again, and this is on the authority of the attorney general or the authority of the Ombudsman for children because it seemed to me that through some exposures there were expectations of some of me or of the offices different from those provided for by law. It is therefore important to remind again that the Croatian Ombudsman has the same powers as all the other lawyers in Europe and the world, which is to advocate the rights of children so that only the voice of children, it is also a promotion of the rights of children, i.e. making professional and in practice based recommendations that we seek to protect children's rights. Our work, that is, all the jobs provided for by the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, does not represent taking over the work of existing systems, but an analysis of the work and systematic monitoring of the work of different systems, initiating changes in these systems with, of course, continued monitoring, or further improvement of the rights and protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, so this is something that we are also based on today's debated report on children's rights. I must admit that in this debate I am really encouraged by some proposals, I am encouraged and will certainly take into account the further work of some suggestions and suggestions today, mostly the part relating to gifted children where, indeed, in the past year, given the whole range of circumstances that the Resorient Ministry has, and all of us have had in the focus will be largely covered and to a greater extent, we will work on the protection of their rights. Everything we heard today is certainly important to consider. The same thing that started this debate today, which is the problem of poverty, this problem is that I think it is very detailedly elaborated and very professionally accessible in the drafting of this report. What we referred to, or when we talked about poverty, is also about the availability of kindergartens, and we heard this today through some exposures, so the availability of kindergartens should be equal and comprehensive for all children in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a proper diet, it is also a number of shortages of professional assistance for children and families living in poverty, so what we are up for and we propose is additional investment and additional support to families at risk or measures to prevent child poverty. We can link this to other areas, of course, especially at the time of this particular crisis, it was also an area of working parenting or a question of the position of children of individual groups of parents at the time of the covid we heard today through your presentations. In any case, what I would do again and finally point out is that in the last year we have indeed witnessed a special year or challenging year where certain efforts have been made, in fact, the efforts of individuals, the efforts of professionals, the efforts of the system to adapt to new circumstances, but they have also been exposed during that year and some weaknesses of different systems responsible for the welfare of children. So I will reiterate that I believe that 2020 will be among other years of learning, the year on which we will build a more resilient system that is able to meet high standards of child protection and their interests in emergency and crisis situations in order to meet future challenges more readily. I think about it already this fall, I think of it already in the next period if it would be necessary to install exactly the knowledge that we all gained together in 2020. What I will end up with and what I will actually complete my presentation with is that at a time when I, four years ago, was appointed to the Ombudsman for children, the President of the Croatian Parliament, clubs and committees, I have submitted a proposal to organise periodic meetings of representatives with the Ombudsman or experts from the Attorney's Office. Unfortunately, this initiative is not respected and I want to repeat it now in this place. So I invite you all to unity when it comes to child protection, to partnership, to cooperate on a common goal because investing in the welfare of children is inextricably from the current and future benefits for society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53801	Thank you, too. You've got one replica, the attorney general from Mrs. O'Donnell. Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53802	I didn't participate in the debate, but I still have the energy just for the last line, I forgot to say in the free or final statement that the HSS Club and the Workers' Front will support the report, so I'm using it this time, but I'd just like to make one comment and I'd like to know what you think about it, so we absolutely welcome these interests for gifted children but at the moment of COVID but also the very difficult material conditions that they warn about, therefore, indicators of poverty and depression in Croatia, I'm afraid we have some other priorities. So just to point out that in Croatia 7% of people do not have to heat up, that 10% cannot afford a meat meal that includes meat, fish or any other vegetarian equivalent, that almost a million people live at risk of poverty, 30,000 children, is probably that information and is mentioned there, I suppose, if not, it is a really important information for this report, living in danger of poverty, therefore some priorities I fear should be highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53803	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53804	Here's a thank you for this replica. Yes, indeed, as already pointed out, every 5th child in the Republic lives in poverty, and I fear that this crisis in the past year could or will lead to an economic and economic crisis, which will, unfortunately, lead to a number of children who, by their own fault, not by their parents but by their guilt would say even more force, disease, pandemics in a certain way will suffer. I don't think that as a state, we can let that happen and that we're unique, that these kids should be helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53805	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, thank you. We'll vote when we get the conditions and by referring to the lawyer's pandemic, we've got an anti-pandemic break by 4:00. It's 15.48 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 16,03 HOURS]] It is next: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading, P.Z. No. 122 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. Would the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved like to take his word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53808	- Mrs. Crescent. And gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. After the first reading in the Croatian Parliament in March this year, we have before us the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Three years after the adoption of the law of 2017 Sir, we have approached the adoption of amendments that are purely technical and organisational. The law of 2017 has made great progress in caring for the defence victims' population, however, after 3 years of law enforcement, it has been observed that certain measures need to be adapted further to the needs of the users in order to fully result in the planned effects. The process of achieving the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid has shown problems affecting the duration of the procedure, with regard to most of the implementation of the previous expert assessment. In view of the long-term duration of the procedure, it is necessary to abandon the ex ante expert assessment of the process of achieving the status of a Croatian military disabled without prejudice to the quality of the procedure. In order to speed up the process of skills in the process of achieving the status of the Croatian Military Disabilities Service, professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, we propose to place the skills in the full responsibility of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence and the skills will continue to be carried out by independent medical professionals. The training shall be set out in the competence of the ZOSI for the reason that the procedure for determining the status of the Croatian wartime invalid is not only determined by the degree of damage to the organism but also by the causal link of this damage to participation in the Homeland War, which is for specificity and requires a specific methodology of work which differs from other artificial procedures in the PGI jurisdiction. I would like to remind you that this model was in use until 2015. In order to speed up the housing process, in addition to organised housing by the Croatian Defence Ministry, the possibility of buying apartments as well as simplifying the housing transfer process for the housing of Croatian defenders is envisaged. The amendments seek to speed up the process of exercising rights to the socially vulnerable and to further adapt the conditions to their needs. The amendments to the draft law in the first reading mainly relate to the new technical addition of articles. The implementation of the law provides for funding in the state budget. And in conclusion, while respecting the observed needs of the technical and organisational adaptations of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, I call on all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Assembly for a single approach to the adoption of laws that would allow the most responsible for the defence of the homeland to be properly achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53809	Thank you very much. You have, I don't know how many but it's down the line, and the first replica was asked for by Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53810	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. This law is complete, which is the most that any Croatian government has done for the population mentioned so far. Please, why do you think public opinion is divided by this law? Some think it is too much right for defenders but do not wonder how it was for defenders, especially volunteers when they were bombed with information that Croatia will be as much as seen from the Zagreb cathedral, Duke Seselj. It is often heard about the dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction of the defenders, not as a defender but as a volunteer I have my own opinion. Please explain yourself to the Croatian public, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53811	Thank you, too. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53812	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the efforts made by this Government with regard to preparation and normative arrangements for quality organisation of all measures and programmes relating to the population of Croatian defenders, and it is particularly important throughout this spectrum to bear in mind the measures and efforts that need to be done and are related to the relationship and proper evaluation of Croatian defenders and the Homeland War in general. I believe that, with all these measures provided for by law, with all the activities that we are carrying out, it is important that we all contribute to the public space in order to create and contribute precisely to the positive evaluation and evaluation and role of Croatian defenders in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53813	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53814	Honorable Vice President and Honorable Ministers with Associates. Will leaving out the previous expert assessment from the process of achieving HRVI status as provided for by this law affect the quality of the proceedings or do we want to speed up further?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53815	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53816	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, the measure of a previous expert assessment, it had its purpose and purpose but unfortunately, the long-term process leads us to seek access and a programme that is acceptable to the dynamics of the implementation of the programme. In the bill of law, i.e. in the final draft of the law and in the activities carried out by the Croatian Defence Ministry, it will, in no way, be reduced the level of expertise because the experts or council that will be in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry will be made up or made up of medical experts of all professions precisely in order to establish a causal link, injury or disease with participation in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53817	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53818	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister. You are a proud man and a true minister in the right place, you have passed all the significant battles of the Homeland War and you know that the Homeland War was not a picnic as it seems to some from this perspective and we must do everything to make real Croatian defenders get what they belong to and not that the greater rights have those from the Munich battlefield or God forbid, enemies of the Croatian state. You're saying that art is left out of the ZOSI and that it's isolated, that it continues as a corpus separatum, a separate body, and that it actually wants to get on time, or that the commission that is professional and which, these are doctors who were in the Homeland War and know all kinds of injuries that can happen and not that they're doing the art of those people who aren't for that professional equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53819	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53820	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've detected well, and you've well recognized our motive and link of the bill to what we want to achieve. So, the council that will be formed within the Croatian Defence Ministry and where specialists of all profiles will be involved is primarily about connecting the time, the war route, the course of service with disease and injury. Our medical experts, professionals who have worked on these jobs for many years, will certainly best value the time spent in the Homeland War and the link of disease or injury to the war route, with during the service, with battlefields where the Croatian defender spent during the Homeland War as well as with other aspects that are related to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53821	Mr. Mlinarich.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Bear, let me ask you the first question, they were just praises. You passed that law and wrote it in 2017, entered 1. 1. 2018, if I'm not mistaken, 500 defenders, you and I know it, that they haven't welcomed use because of the long-term process that we're changing now and needs to change, we'll support it. Do you feel responsible for those 500 people who have died and have not achieved HRVI status or at least someone from your team who has done this law and made this failure so long? That's what someone had to predict when you gave that law and not now change it after four years. I will support him, all that goes for the defenders, for the benefit of the defender, but tell me your responsibility for these people who died, not waiting for these changes today in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53823	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53824	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In 2016 and 2017, at the time we were working on this bill, we made a model organisational and that we included all associations from the Homeland War in the process of making. 11 project groups worked for months to find the best solutions, the best measures. I would like to remind you that it was a time where we had to implement almost revolutionary methods or forms, the deadlines were closed to everyone, so both for the status of HRVI and for the status of Croatian defenders, then in this High House, a large number of MPs came out with the the thesis that by opening these deadlines, we would create a million new Croatian defenders, that we would bring down the state budget and a whole series of other illogicalities and distorted thesis. So then we made a strong step, this today is actually an additional organisational adjustment in achieving a lot of law enforcement effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53825	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53826	Good afternoon. In this House, we seem to be making more and more laws legalizing lawlessness. So we passed one Law on the University of Defence and Security where it's legal that although all other universities need to pass accreditation, this university doesn't have to. Here we are passing a law that abolished the meaning of serious skills carried out by the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation and transferred to a ministry whose commission will be appointed by the Minister, or you. Something in another world would be called corruption, is that the minister himself decides who has the status of defenders without serious skill but here we have this possibility by law, therefore, and whether someone's impaired health is the result of the war that went on 25 years ago, will decide the commission that will be appointed by the defence minister, believing that the Office of Arts is not relevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53827	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53828	The honourable MPs, Peovic, every council and every commission appointed by a minister of the resolution, so it has been in the present case, and so it is in the finality of today at the Office of Arts, so a certain authorised minister whose portfolio is the body, is calling, so the team from the Ministry of Selection, which is the experts and doctors, hires them and the minister, signs a contract with them, so it is no exception to the whole process. I would like to remind you of the complexity of this process, the difference between the art of the victims of Croatian defenders, the circumstances of their deaths, the level and ways of their suffering and disease as a consequence of participation in the Homeland War, and the other duties, or other professions. I remind you that the model we're proposing now was in effect by 2015 and that it was then destroyed and we want to correct it and bring it to an effective level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53829	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53830	Dear Minister, here I will remind you why it is 2014. Designed ZOSI. So then a 70m-euro loan was taken from the World Bank to finance a project to modernise the social protection system because at that moment we had 270 000 disability pensions among the pensioners and we were ordered to tighten the criteria for going into disability pensions because of them in 1999. 60,000 of them went into disability pensions purely out of political decisions. So, there's an institution that's going to be professionally skilled and decide who can go into disability pension. You're bringing in here now, you're saying this is wrong, it's too slow, it's not authorized, they're not trained to assess disabled defence pensions, whether it means that now the Ministry of Education for Persons with Disabilities from the education system also have [[Thank you, ma'am. Puljak.]] Some kind of commission? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53831	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53832	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I never said one word to shut down the craftsman's office. So, if you followed closely and read the bill here, we're talking about detachment from a category of users' ZOSI, all other users remain in that ZOSI. Valorisation, evaluation and evaluation of the institutions, I believe that you will also have through the Institute reports as is the case in practice, and you will be able to see the results and achievements of the Institute. I know very well then and this measure and the way of funding and funding from the World Bank, here we aim to create a basic organisational assumption for implementing the skills measures and that it is fully in line with the acceptable time period and ultimately with the General Administrative Procedure on time and course of implementation of the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53833	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53834	Thank you very much. Ministers, when I passed the current law, I then gave amendments and spoke and pointed to the inimplementability of the Law on Croatian Defence. And the fact is, he's inconclusive. And the fact is that people, Croatian defenders, are even more frustrated by the existing law. It was then to pass this law of new measures that would allow Croatian defenders to allow a normal sequence of exercise of their rights. A number of defenders, the number of 500 Croatian defenders has died, which has applied for their rights. And that's a defeating figure that they haven't exercised their rights because of frequent amendments to the law or as they say, the whole law, this is now the first of this new whole law. I would prefer that we found funds, mainly from Serbia for war damage that has been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53835	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53836	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. I remember well your active participation and contribution to the adoption of the law of 2017. First of all, when we talk about funding, I want to remind you that our government has since 2016, so it increases the ministry's budget by more than half a billion kuna. Secondly, I would like to remind you that for the first time we have introduced preventive medical examinations conducted in all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, that more than 70,000 Croatian defenders have passed preventive checks, the results of these reviews, I have spoken many times in this esteemed Visko home. When we talk about law enforcement, following the application as the ministry does seriously and seriously, we have established certain bottlenecks and positions where slowdown occurs. All other measures are very much applied and here we create an assumption of acceleration and this process when we talk about skills and the achievement of HRVI status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53837	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53838	Dear Ministers, any amendments and additions to the laws to improve the status of Croatian defenders, especially HRVI, should be supported. I have a question here for you if you know the answer. How many persons, in accordance with the law adopted in 2017, have applied for recognition of the status of Croatian defenders and how many of those who have submitted the request have gained the status of Croatian defenders? Because the information from the field comes that a very large part of the people were rejected, that people were disappointed, that unfortunately a good part of that law remained a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53839	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53840	Thank you very much, Your Honor. An extremely important question, therefore, I will deliver all the figures to you with an evaluation because it is very important to have a complete picture here for the sake of full information. First, we have the possibility, or we have opened a deadline for achieving the status of Croatian defender, a deadline that was closed until then. Secondly, we have an open deadline for the status of HRVI, you will receive complete information. Third, we have a process where HRVI had earlier status but due to the worsening of the disease, they went to an assessment and an increase, or a new assessment of their health status. Therefore, these are all procedures that we are very familiar with and during this debate, I will tell you that you have full information on what extent and how the ministry has established the organisation and full application of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53841	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53842	Dear Ministers Medved, the fight for a free and independent Croatia was a break-up with a single-party system and a struggle for multilateralism. And that means that several different voices can be heard in the Croatian Parliament. When we look at these amendments and supplement the law in relation to the first version of which many of us have debated very actively in the Assembly, wanting to make a contribution to resolving the status of Croatian defenders, we find 5 pages in which you comment on the contributions offered in the debate, but in no sentence do you refer to the whole debate that took place in the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry, at the end of these five sentences, you're just saying that everything that's happened in the Croatian Parliament is covered by some of the other things that were said Do you think we're even a partner for dialogue on this issue? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] So we don't all waste time together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53843	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am convinced that MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament together with the Government, it is ultimately our obligation to be a very strong partner. All the contents of all the discussions in the Croatian Parliament as well as the contents that were presented during the public debate were thoroughly analysed in the Croatian Defence Ministry. None of them have been ignored and none of them have been ruled out. Therefore, I continue to invite you to such a partnership approach because we all have an obligation to make our contribution to our normative acts, so that our laws are as high-quality as possible and the debate in the Croatian Parliament and the content and the debate is very important and beneficial to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53845	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53846	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. What you're saying is nice, I agree with that, but I wish it were true. On page 5, where you refer to the debate on this law, you only semi-limize with the Committee on War Veterans and it is important to respect their proposals and observations but you do not refer to the entire debate in the Croatian Parliament in any replica. So, unfortunately, what you are currently talking about dialogue remains a dead letter on paper and in practice in this bill it is shown that it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53847	Thank you very much. It would somehow go as a false allegation eventually, but this is a replica, so I have to give you a warning. Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53848	Honorable Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. Certainly this law offers and improves, such intensity is the rights of Croatian defenders, Croatian heroes who have defended and freed Croatia and the Croatian people want to separate money and separate as far as they can for this era of celebrities who have achieved freedom after 9th century and defended freedom. But it means... I see you're taking care of everything, and I'm glad that in this particular housing and other issues, but among other things, about health both physically and mentally, to reduce the number of suicides, and now tell me, what is your reaction, what did you have in the ministry that was raised last week in Brshadin by a plate of Chetniks standing there, a list of the names of the aggressors and that it stands and that they were killed by a Ustasha bullet and a Ustasha grenade? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, please, did you have a ministry like this? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] What's that? [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Sacic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53849	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53850	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, everything that happens in Croatian society and especially when we talk about the Homeland War and all questions about the Homeland War, that they are very much present at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, to monitor everything that is happening. When we talk about setting up this panel, so we asked because we couldn't see from the media articles either the content of that panel or that name, we asked for full information about what the content of this panel and what it is and where it is specifically set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53851	- Mrs. Crescent. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53852	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honors Minister, you are here as minister on behalf of the Croatian Defence Ministry, what about your responsibility as Deputy Prime Minister when you make a difference between people with disabilities? Even a lawyer for people with disabilities as we had the opportunity to hear on Friday is the view that skills for people with disabilities should not be singled out and that everyone should have the same way and practice in art? With this separation, you are actually creating an injustice against other users who are unjustly waiting for their art in front of other resorts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53853	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53854	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I don't think we're on the same approach with regard to the desired goal we're going to achieve. On the contrary, the issue of Croatian defenders from ZOSI opens up a bigger space for all other persons who are waiting at the Institute of Arts and in no way is the separation of persons with disabilities, so in the future this process when we talk about HRVI or Croatian defenders who initiate the status process, they will be trained by experts from the spectrum and the current councils, but in a way to speed up the whole process when we talk about Croatian defenders and here opens up an additional possibility and space for all other persons with an assessment, the remaining expert assessment, i.e. for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53855	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. The coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53856	Mr. Secretary of State. Indeed, this is only exclusive and is exclusively technical and organisational in nature change. I would just like to express my satisfaction that as soon as you noticed that the process would not last too long, you reacted with these amendments and additions to allow our defenders to exercise their rights in time. It is unacceptable that the procedure lasts 36 months. And I think it was crucial to make these changes. So, in these changes, of course, that's what COVID contributed to, and you know it very well, and now I'm going to use the last one to tell you that I'm asking you, since we've noticed that our defenders are being underprivileged, that you're affecting the defenders and the defense population, as we all others are affecting as much as we can, I know your contribution, but please give more along with the entire ministry because we've noticed that there are not enough split defenders in the defence population. Here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53857	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53858	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I am also using the opportunity to invite all Croatian defenders, all members of the families of our dead, missing and dead Croatian defenders to take advantage of this occasion, and thus contribute to the preservation of their health and health of their loved ones, and here we are mainly talking about that vulnerable group, the group of people whose health is damaged, so the call is to take advantage of this opportunity, Croatia has provided sufficient amounts of vaccines and we are vaccinated because today vaccination is a patriotic act and we all contribute together to the preservation of our people's health. It is true that what you have clearly and beautifully recognized, therefore, in implementing the measure of previous expert assessment carried out in all hospitals, unfortunately and COVID has greatly contributed to reducing the intensity and dynamics of the previous expert assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53859	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister. So here we are today in the debate on amendments and amendments to the law, we can say that these normative organisational changes are in the law, certainly a good improvement for the needs of our disabled Homeland War but also the victims of the Homeland War. Thousands are referred to the charges, objections as well as requests to change it to be quick, functional and effective because indeed for those who have been waiting for this disability for so long and who are being treated in our hospitals and the PTSD reference centres and most of them are, they certainly expect this law to come into force as soon as possible and to be functional in order for them to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53861	Here's your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53862	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So it's clear, by following the week and month level since the law was passed, the whole process, so of all the levels for receiving requests, by detecting where these are positions that slow down the whole process, but here once again I want to highlight partnership and cooperation with our associations from the Homeland War where we came through our regular coordination and meetings, we have drawn up this bill that really creates a presumption of the full application of our law, recognising those points where the slowdown and responsible approach has been so far, by proposing amendments to the law, by creating assumptions for the full application of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53863	And at the end of the last line, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53864	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, as we all know, was adopted in 2017, and these amendments that we are discussing today and commenting on and discussing, are, in fact, as you yourself have said, technical nature and are being adopted in order to adapt certain measures to improve their impact on the long-term and shortening of the art process, but what I need to stress is the fact that these changes are evidence of continuing concern for Croatian defenders, just as they deserve, and indeed these measures and amendments I welcome. And what I have a special need to stress, this very law is the first integrated law on Croatian defenders in the history of the Croatian state. The first law that makes a complete solution for Croatian defenders and for the care of defenders as they deserve. For this very reason, he was very well received by all Croatian defenders. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53865	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53866	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, when we analyse everything we have achieved and we see the implementation of all the measures when we have brought it, we have clearly communicated that this is a unique legal framework that regulates almost all the areas concerned by any material issues of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. And I will repeat, therefore, our close cooperation and partnership with the Associations of the Homeland War, our constant presence, our district departments that we have established under this law are exactly that feedback and recognition of those details that have led to the slowdown of the law, and therefore by this law we answer these questions and finally solve those positions where the slowdown occurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so far you have no more replicas, thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Here you are, Mr. Djakic, president of the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. HS War Veterans Committee at its 4th session held on 23 June 2021. He considered the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defences of the Homeland War and to members of their families submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 18 June 2021. The Committee considered the act in question as a parent body in accordance with the provisions of the Article. The 91st Rules of Procedure of HS. According to the proposing representatives, it is necessary to introduce certain measures in the basic law adopted three years ago and to further adapt them to users in order to fully result in the planned effects. The main reason for amending and supplementing the law is to speed up the procedures for achieving the status of the Homeland War HRI, which currently lasts for over two years, because of normative and organisational problems, and to speed up the housing of defenders and victims, to enable the achievement of all pension insurance rights for Croatian defenders who have acquired their status after the entry into force of the law, or to regain the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defenders, and to enable the achievement of benefits for unemployed single assistance for all socially endangered Croatian defenders. The adoption of this law needs to be implemented as quickly as possible because the unsustainable state in which the process of attaining the status of HRVI from the Homeland War lasts for up to three years, and given the circumstances of the coronary virus pandemic, the duration of the procedure is further difficult and prolonged and any further delay in changing the law leads to an increase in the number of Croatian defenders who will not await the end of the proceedings or the merited status. Compared to the bill's proposal in the final draft of the law, apart from nomotechnical changes, it is envisaged that the status of Croatian defence attorneys of the Homeland War can be demonstrated in addition to the Ministry of Defence's confirmation of both the Ministry of Defence and the confirmation of the Croatian Defence Ministry. There is also a more detailed right to compensation for the unemployed, more detailed services provided by the Veteran Centre, and the right to award the garage is prescribed. For the implementation of this law, funds are secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. as part of the division of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy. In the discussion, the committee members mainly supported the proposed changes and additions that address the problems identified in the implementation of the relevant law, it was stressed that the possibility of bringing disability into line with wage growth and GDP rather than determining the budgetary basis and that the possibility of the termination of the pension reduction law would be considered and achieved according to specific rules. After the discussion, the Committee decided, by a majority vote with six votes for these three abstentions, to propose to the HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Croatian Defence in the Homeland War and members of their families, as proposed, while the Committee finally prepared one amendment on the very harmonisation of pensions responsible for the state budget, thinking on all aspects, we also referred the amendment as a committee president on the basis of this debate, and we will now deliver it to the Croatian Defence Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister on the insight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53869	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate and again giving you my words in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Croatian Defences of the Homeland War and of the members of their families to which we approach so that we can provide the most responsible for the defence of our country so as to facilitate their status and material rights and comprehensive care tailored to their needs. The law we passed three years ago made a significant and major step in regulating the rights and recognition of the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the status of HRVI. Moves have been made in terms of improving the provisions that regulate the status and existential rights of Croatian defenders, corrected part of the injustices created by the abolition of rights acquired through the long-standing amendments and additions of the Law, which contributed to the sense of security of Croatian defenders and members of their families, but also to strengthening the dignity of the Homeland War. We have heard from the applicant's opening statement that, during the application of the law over three years, certain measures need to be corrected and adapted to the needs of users in order to fully result in the planned impact. In practice, a particular problem has also been shown in the realisation of certain provisions mainly concerning the art-making process, the length of procedures in the exercise of HRVI rights, the resolution of the rights from HRVI and HVO members, the problem of resolving housing rights and all of these are changes in technical and organisational nature, and the main reason is to speed up the procedures for achieving HRVI status. Compared to the bill's proposal in the final draft of the law, apart from nomotechnical changes, it is envisaged that the status of Croatian defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War can be demonstrated in addition to the confirmation of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and the confirmation of the Croatian Defence Ministry. There is also a more detailed right to compensation for the unemployed, more detailed services provided by the Veteran Centre, such as the right to award the garage. It should be pointed out that this final bill is based on an analysis of the previous law, but mostly on the activities of the Croatian Defence Ministry. In direct contact with the defence population or associations that gather our defenders and members of their families, the partnership relationship to find a solution, understand and understand the situation on the ground, there has also been a proposal for these changes in order to round up the normative segment of solving the problem of the defence population. As we have already heard the amendments and additions to the law will take place as follows, the acceleration of the procedure for achieving HRVI status due to the abolition of the previous expert assessment in the procedures for achieving the status of HRVI from the Homeland War on the basis of diseases, the further acceleration of the procedures for the achievement of HRVI, the skills performed by experts of the Institute of Arts, the professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities will be transferred to the full competence of the Croatian Ministry of Defence, and the creation of special committees in which the experts based on the Treaty of Action will be trained, the exercise of the right to pension under this law will be carried out if they meet the conditions and for those of Croatian contacts which have subsequently achieved this status, or additional days of participation in defence of the Republic of Croatia, and already have a recognised the right to retire from the law of pensions which have not been relevant to the need to promote their pensions, the need to ensure that the need to ensure that the need of the need for the new money, as far as well as they can be. This law must be approached as soon as possible, as professional evaluations show that the procedures last almost two years, which we consider unacceptable especially because of the high mortality of the defence population. Since 2017, 4,600 Croatian defenders died annually, on average, so that a significant share of Croatian defenders who submitted a request for the resolution of HRVI status was not unfortunately welcomed. The important step is that certain procedures will no longer need to be obtained, the war route because this delays procedures, and most of the data is available in the records of Croatian defenders to be used for this purpose. Since we are in a challenging time, such as this covid pandemic, the defence population is old and Croatian defenders are the wave of an elderly person and their health problems are becoming increasingly difficult. We are aware that the law cannot predict or limit the occurrence of disease or the deterioration of diseases that have resulted in a causal relationship with the victims of the Homeland War, which in medical skills established medical commissions according to the rules of the profession. These changes will reduce administrative deadlines for recognition of HRVI status. Therefore, Croatian defenders who do not have the appropriate status are now able to afford all of them, as well as the victims of the Homeland War, to allow their role in the defence to be valued with dignity. The following club welcomes and supports the amendments and additions of the law, and we hope and invite all other MPs and MPs to support this law in order to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders, improve and facilitate their position because it is precisely our duty to settle a number of issues that burden our heroes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53871	And now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, Mr. Sacic will share the time first and then Mr. Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53872	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Again, we find that today as well as at the first reading, we must spend time when the concentration is very low or we are tired, and apparently we have a long and hard work to do with our attitudes. About this law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, or supplementing the final version, we have already said more or less in the first reading, here only needs to see one part, one small part of the proposer has respected our remarks, but what remains to be indicated is the support of the principle idea to make life easier for Croatian defenders, to give their families, first of all, bread to them, to hire them who are unemployed, to stimulate their employment, that is most valuable and most important, and that is, for me, it is a good thing that you have invested a lot in these cooperatives and various forms of providing economic security to economicists and their families, and there is no need to regret money, certainly these measures are encouraged and most of course you do. But the fact remains that a large number of Croatian defenders are still unemployed, they need to be discussed to see what opens up the space. On the other hand, from the existing people who are victims of families, above all, there is still a closed area of access to certain rights, and it is very traumatic, especially the families of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, those who have passed Serbian concentration camps and who are indeed in this tragedy and evil that have survived even unfortunately some of them raised their hands on themselves, there are huge problems you know very well as the team in the Ministry of Justice, there should be absolutely no doubt that all the evil that has happened to him from health to psyche to even suicide that no one who has been through 6 months of torture in fascist Serb camps can afterwards have absolutely no doubt that any evil that has happened to him from health to even suicide is not related to this, that there is no causal-consequential connection. So, there we should do much more, I have given the amendment to this, this, fortunately I say, that number of people who are in such a situation in Croatia are not numbering thousands but, as many as there are they have earned all the attention of this society and more. Also, we already told you on the Committee as the Minister's Professional Service, and make underlegal acts not available for six months. We will now, here we are, and in a week two will be a vote, so don't now. The law will be passed, but it won't be applied for six months, because it hasn't been passed. The rulebook must be parallel to the Regulation, shorten the time limit, let it be tested, let it be within one time period of 2 months, 3, but not 6 months. What's 90 days I know is a problem, I know it's hard to go on an annual, corona, earthquakes, evil all but professional services let them unite and in the interest of the victim's family, defenders do that technical no-technical part of the job as soon as possible and so on. That is, in principle, what is your permanent concern, your permanent concern of the Minister and everyone else not to allow anyone access to the honorable category of the most responsible people who created, defended the Croatian state, therefore that is your obligation. Can't happen to become a category of fake defender normal category. No false defenders. We only have defenders and those who are not, and your services are, and all of you to be watchful, and there we will calm our Croatian public and say, no, everyone who is a defender is proud, there is no false among them, if there is a false knowledge of how they should be treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53874	Dear Minister, I thank you for the information you just gave me and regarding the number of persons who have acquired according to this law the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid, i.e. the status of a Croatian defender I wanted to speak of and will not be too long, but here I am obliged to these persons, it is two persons from the area of the former Vukovar municipality who have submitted requests for recognition of the status of Croatian defender, one and the other persons have been rejected. I will give you an example, so, one person, who has requested the recognition of status for the period from early May to early May of May of the year 91 in the area of Ilok and in the area of Vukovar, with the presentation of 5 witnesses and 2 commanders, that in the area of Ilock, the same person in the area of Vukovar was rejected by both the first decision and the second-degree body, with the explanation of the field defence department Osijek that this person is not in the official records of the Ministry of Defence. On the other hand, we have another case for the Croatian Defence who has the status of defender but one part of the 91st year is not recognised and is on the document of time from 91st, which was signed by the Commander of the Local Community Commander Mitnica, the late Ivo Šoljic, his name and last name, but despite being on the document of time and the Ministry of Defence acknowledges this document of time as well as all witnesses the superior commander remembers him well and here was given for the right and greater faith is given by the commander. I think there are obviously some criteria that are not yet in line with the very meaning of the Department of Defence Department Osijek within the Ministry of Defence, so here's a clear idea that a little bit more counts that these criteria are still uniform, of course who has the right to have, who has, can't be as said fellow Sacic has no category of false defender or is a defender or are you not a defender and point. Here, I thank you again for giving me these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53875	Now, Mr Damir Bakic will speak in front of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53876	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed secretary, the respected colleagues and colleagues, the bill of law we had in our first reading was not acceptable to us. We pointed out that this proposal gives many new and unnecessary privileges so great that in some respects it creates a new caste while failing to help those in the defense population who really need help. This final bill in this respect is even worse, and it is not clear that the direction in which it is going is not good. I'll only stay in the most critical places in the text. As has already been said, a new model of art is being introduced, instead of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities at the disposal of all citizens and who should act equally for all citizens of this country, will now be trained by special medical commissions appointed by the minister. With all due respect, with all respect it's not good, it's not good in this domain to prescribe new rules, special rights for defenders. Article 26 now allows more members of the rope or extended family of the deadly defendant to receive an apartment, not only one member who is already residently cared for in accordance with the applicable Law, but now all who are in the same succession order, if they so wish. So if it takes five apartments, five. Who needs that? It's not fair, it's cynical to call that measure housing. The same Article 26 now allows for the children of the injured defender who have not been provided with housing under quotes to be taken care of because of the existence of an obstacle recorded by the Law. Do you know what is the obstacle that now wants to be removed? The obstacle he now wishes to remove is possession of his own apartment or house. When everything is summed up or taken away, it says, we'll assign an apartment and we'll call it living care and those kids who already have their own apartment or home. Here's a new meaning: Syntagma housing. Article 34a propo, this is completely new and thus very, very seriously broken Article 191. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because if it is substantially changed in the final draft law of the bill, then the Proposer is obliged to explain it, not only not only to note but also to explain it. There's no explanation left here. As far as Article 134 is concerned, forgive me, it is the introduction of a new article into the body of the applicable Law, and the new article says that Croatian wartime wartime people from the first to the fourth group, who have exercised the right to housing, have the right to be granted without compensation and garage. And the garage, now I repeat, and at the same address, it doesn't say what kind of vehicle. And it also doesn't say how possible it is, how sure we are that it will be feasible at the same address. My colleagues and colleagues, this doesn't make sense. Now, on top of everything else, we guarantee the garage. Is that housing or is there another word for that? Furthermore, among the qualified founders of the defense social and working cooperative, and we have already talked about this, among the qualified founders of the defence social and working cooperative will now include children of volunteers. They're volunteer kids. These cooperatives are too valuable an instrument, established or established for psycho-social empowerment, for faster, stronger reintegration and labour and social inclusion of the defence population in the work processes. All of this, of course, requires, and deserves state administrative and financial assistance and for good reason. Now in these, we now guarantee these benefits to children and not only children of the mortals, but children of all the defenders. What's that? Will tomorrow and the children of those children be allowed to be the founders of the Socio-Workers' Associations? Isn't that like making some new caste? And that's in the second knee. Article 35 shall be affected by Article 101 of the Basic Law and an additional circle of those who have priority in employment shall be extended. Even members of a wider family of defenders have that advantage, and this instrument itself is harmful. Because he was perverting, he was perverting to the point where, for example, the advantage of selecting the principals of primary and secondary schools is those of our fellow citizens who are listed in Article 101 of the Basic Law. Not in employment, but in principalship. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry of Defence proposes this provision, in this Law, that it may make an unlimited reach for the provision and provision of external services in its work. Contrary to the provisions of either by provision or beyond the provision of Article 62(2). Law on civil servants. And finally article 58 that we talked about in our first reading. Under the current basic law, the defence ministry was obliged to report to the Croatian Assembly on the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence. It was due, even if it was due, it wasn't the last two, three, or I don't know how many years. It didn't work, it didn't do it without consequences. Now the Ministry of Defence has decided to cut off the obligation by entering this article simply docking the obligation. From now on, therefore, according to this final draft of the law, the amendment and addition of the Law on Croatian Defence, the Ministry of Defence will no longer be obliged to submit such reports to the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this law is even worse than the first one. It introduces, or proposes, the rights that few need, rights that cannot be regarded as concerns for defenders at all but can be understood as rewards for them and for their family members, and this seems to be a pity to the defenders precisely because the entire defence population is further antagonist because of these unnecessary privileges. At the same time, we are missing out on the history of caring for that part of the defense population that lives deep, deep in the social or socioeconomic subordination zone, and nothing in this very law has helped those who actually need help the most. That's why we're not voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53877	Thank you very much. You can go. You're not responding to any of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53878	Art. 238. Do you know what a privilege is? Do you know what a reward is when you use those words so easily? Well, the privilege of having living and healthy family members. Let's just say I'm privileged and this right that this law offers is only a bad compensation for something that is materially and cannot be compensated, so I think you should keep an eye on rhetoric when you talk about such sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53879	Thank you very much, thank you very much. You know it was a replica, I don't have to explain it to you because it's not the place to discuss rhetoric, the Rules of Procedure say. You have made one systematic remark regarding Art.191 which I cannot resolve here and suggested that if someone has such doubts that there are such failures to solve them in a way that participates in the work of the Committee on Law where everyone can go and anyone can say that, once the law comes here, it has its course and I have to respect this one. So, Mrs. Selak, unfortunately, you have another warning because it was a replica, and I'm sorry to warn you, I know you won't believe it, but believe me, I'm sorry to warn you, but I have to give them. Now there's an injury to Mr. Simicevic's Rules of Procedure who knows I'm sorry to be warned, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53880	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I think my colleague hurt his ankle. 238 that in this assembly and among the Croatian public, defetism is actually spreading, that a new caste is being created which is by no means true and which is actually offensive to Croatian defenders. The expertise is set aside from Hosea into a separate body to shorten the disability procedure. I was a Croatian defender And I'm happy that I don't have to file any demands, and I don't need that kind of privilege... [[Thank you very much, Mr. Radin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53881	/Intruder Radin: it was a pure replica, it was a pure replica and of course there was a reminder. Mr. Djakić would like to take the opportunity
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53882	Thank you very much, Vice President. An article in 238 was injured when counterpart Bakic faked his presentation to show Croatian victims to Privileges. Not reading a consistent explanation of each article of the law but fiddling on the burden of children and families of the mortals so gravely accused of standing in this Law. That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53883	Mr. Djakic used to be, there used to be a false allegation. Now there's no more. This was a replica, you know it better than I do. Unfortunately, like all others, there is a warning. And that's the third. Mr. Tomo Bear will speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53884	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On the basis of the findings of Mr Bakic, I would like to further clarify. Namely, here when we talk about garages, I want to remind you of certain gaps that were made by 2000, so I believe that I see that you have thoroughly analyzed how you and the reasons you read, namely, then the Ministry of Defence and then the Ministry of Defense in one time awarded the most difficult disabled apartments and garages. With the treatment being to a certain extent and a certain number of the most disabled here, I am talking about the Croatian military disabled from the first to the fourth group, so from 100 per cent to 80 per cent of these garages remained on state property. So the Croatian military disabled have received apartments and garages that are within that house have remained on state property, and therefore it is in the bill of this Law, and about the observed problem we have really with these garages, and here we are talking about a dozen of the most difficult victims of Homeland Work to finally resolve the question of the status of these garages. When we talk about the status of children as the same succession order, also, by observing and analysing for many years certain court practice based on which we recognized the need for legal regulation of this issue in a specific case here, we are talking about children of the dead Croatian defenders who, therefore, came from the same father and did not live with their father at the time of his death and later, through the recognition of the child's status as deadly injured, through certain court practice, we had an obligation to regulate their status. Therefore, these issues and related to Article 34, and as regards the resolution of the final status of these garages, the same applies to the issue of regulation, legal regulation of status, which is based on the earlier court scratch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53885	Thank you, too. Stay, you've got replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53886	Dear Ministers, as I have said unequivocally earlier, I find this discussion of privileges untasteful, because I am fully aware that what we take for granted, such as the health and life of our loved ones and ourselves, is the only real privilege that no material thing can compensate for, so neither are all these rights that we will give to Croatian defenders. However, I think that this part of the debate could have been avoided again in the Croatian Parliament, because we also talked about it in the first reading of the law, but you did not refer to what Mr. Bakic told you earlier in his legislative proposal, this new one. So, regardless of my disagreement with all his proposals, I think it's in the spirit of democracy that you take them into account and you take them in writing because they're already in the first reading proposal, so now we'd have a clearer and more focused debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53887	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53888	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, but here we are talking about the text that's in the second reading, so we couldn't look back, because it wasn't the topic in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53889	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53890	Thank you very much. Minister, you have shown yourself to a colleague of Bakic who has expressed a series of views he has in democracy the right to express, but after 30 years of the Serb-cetical occupation of the Republic of Croatia, 26 years since the Liberation Operation Storm, I would ask you one question, which I have asked countless times, and the whole public knows. What have you done to finance the damage done by the Serb-ready, that Croatia finally gets war damage from Serbia? From the aggressor. It is a very important question as opposed to what is being asked as a question from counterpart Bakic. And do you have any number of how many aggressors have made pensions and enjoy the pensions of Chetniks who slaughtered and burned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53891	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53892	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. I understand your question, but here is not the topic of today's debate, but regardless of the topic, the Croatian Ministry of Defence is very active, along with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs' resolutions, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, analyses all steps, all measures, all actions aimed at seeking damages, and here I will especially single out the efforts we make regarding the compensation of the persons who spent part of their lives as prisoners of Serbian concentration camps.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53893	Mr. Miro Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53894	Thank you very much. The minister injured article 238 saying this isn't a topic. Yes, it is precisely the topic of war damage done by Serbs to this area and we have the right to seek war damage and that is our obligation both to you as minister and us as parliamentary representatives. Contrary to everything that counterpart Bakic was talking about, funding isolates must be clear. Someone made an aggression, someone was defending, and the defender wasn't the point in the Homeland War, especially the volunteer, the privilege, but it was someone's duty, and someone was under the jugment of the mountain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53895	Thank you very much. It was a pure replica, you know that, right? Not getting into content, not getting into trouble, but it was a replica. It was a replica, so there's a warning. Uh, let's hope and there won't be any more. Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53896	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, I expect from you, when the MPs come out like this and start talking about the privileged defence caste that you react much more strongly and don't let it be said that the children of the deceased defenders are privileged in this country, because they are not because they have no parents, they don't have a father, so I would ask you to react much more strongly and more strongly to such statements by the representatives. This is the first time I've praised you and stood by you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53897	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53898	Thank you very much, dear representative Mlinarić. Absolutely everywhere and everywhere, at the beginning and presentation of the final bill I have invited MPs and MPs to contribute to the creation of an atmosphere in society that Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War are valued in the way they deserve it and I fully support you. Always and everywhere, we Croatian defenders react and we have to react, because unfortunately, it is a phenomenon that is often happening, and Croatian defenders are the foundation of an independent and sovereign Croatian state and all of what we are saying and what we are doing, we are doing exactly in light to establish the normative and administrative frameworks in which Croatian defenders will be and have the status that they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53899	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53900	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Croatian Defence Minister. We must have listened to these insinuations in 2000 towards the Homeland War when the Croatian Homeland War was sent to The Hague. But, well, winning was a little harder, but we won. I would like to hear you repeat again to our colleagues all together in such a way that when you came as the Minister of Croatian Defence as you found the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the Law on Croatian Defence, in which the whole state of society is torn apart. Here, I'm asking you to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53901	Just a minute. Before answering one of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Here you are, Mr. Bull, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53902	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague named Deur injured Article 238. Because he mentioned that only in 2000 words against the defenders were heard. The most difficult words spoken by my colleague Deur have been spoken to arrest, locate, transfer, process from the ideal now beginner of this government of Vladimir Seks. So for the sake of fairness, the most morbid reality towards the defender in the Homeland War was then spoken by the ideal beginner of the existing government of Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53903	Thank you very much. Second warning due to abuse of this article, but now answer to, due to a breach of the Rules of Procedure normally. Not now is the answer to Mr. Deur. You asked the question, didn't you? Injury of the Rules of Procedure too? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53904	Dear colleague Bulj, this is Article 238. I said it very nicely in 2000. The year the persecution of the Croatian State and the Homeland War began. As far as what you said you were as I recall you were a coalition partner of the Croatian Democratic Community and you did very well,... Love until you showed as a party that you couldn't bring out the rest and then the secretary made her own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53905	Thank you very much. I've left you to speak, but you really should be warning yourself because it was already clear from the beginning that it was a replica, so you have a warning. Answer to Mr. Deur. Not at all what he said now, but at what he said in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53906	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. So, the state of the Croatian Defence Ministry in 2016 painted the relationship between society and then the government towards Croatian defenders and the Homeland War. A protest by Croatian defenders and an attempt at dialogue, the establishment of dialogue failed. But what is important about the status of Croatian defenders here is to remind that then all deadlines for achieving the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid have been closed, to achieve the status of Croatian defender. So thousands of attempts at status were disabled by then closed legal deadlines. We'll never understand for sure the real reasons why these deadlines are closed. Thousands of dead Croatian defenders in an inability to achieve elementary status. In the shortest lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53907	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Puljak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53908	Dear Minister, you're saying that bypassing the Institute of Arts is intended to speed up the whole process, or that you're going to get the experts out of this office into a special commission. But here's what I really don't understand is how it's going to speed up the process. What is the problem is that this group of experts is not doing so within the Office of Arts, to speed up procedures in the institution itself. Why do you have to drag them out? I'm saying I don't see any gain in speeding up the process, because again that same process will just work for someone else you'll directly appoint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53909	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53910	I'm going to explain to the esteemed representative, Puljak. It is clear, therefore, that today, according to the method of art in the Institute of Arts and Croatian defenders and all other persons who are persons with disabilities or persons who are initiating the procedure for regulating physical damage. In this procedure, it is intended to single out and methodologically establish skills for Croatian defenders only, and later we will come in the second draft of the laws on persons, or civilian victims of the Homeland War, where these same skills will play a role. So we're not talking about the same witches here, we're not talking about overlapping jurisdiction here. Here we are talking about an art methodology that will be carried out by authorised persons, professionals, and in parallel we enable and reduce the number of persons at the Office of Arts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53911	And the last replica, Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53912	Dear Ministers, here is precisely thanks to Croatian defenders who have created a free Croatian state, counterpart Bakic can speak freely today. He's entitled to it. However, it is extremely degutant to call Croatian defenders and members of their families a separate caste. I don't know if they were that special privileged caste when it was '91. You were supposed to stand on the first line of defense? Unfortunately, there is still only one caste in Croatia, which is since '45. the year that did not get the apartments from the state but took them when she expelled the local population from both Zagreb and all other places. And this caste, their descendants and today draws on Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53913	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53914	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I fully agree, and I will repeat and invite all of us, who are publicly acting, to all persons who, in any way in public space, send messages to refrain from inappropriate messages to Croatian defenders, moreover we establish a relationship, build a relationship and contribute the atmosphere where the Croatian defender will be proud of what he did, and in particular create an atmosphere in Croatian society where the children of our dead Croatian defenders will proudly point out that children of people who have laid their lives for the freedom we enjoy today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53915	Thank you very much. Here we go again, no more replicas. And now in front of the Representatives' Club, the Bridge will be spoken by Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53916	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today’s Law, i.e. The adoption of this amendment to the law, I can only repeat what I said and through replicas, that the law was passed was applied three years ago, unfortunately, what I was saying when this law was debated, valid, four years ago, then I said that the Law was not applicable. And we have to say after 30 years of Serbian Chetnic aggression, I said just 26 years ago from the magnificent operation of the Liberation Storm, today we are still discussing the laws on Croatian defenders, which should have been long ago defined, the rights of these people, because at this point it is very important to mention that when we go to our comrades, here I was recently at Dinara, there was also an envoy of the minister, there were other people who were defenders, then I remember those who were killed at Dinara, the 7th Guard brigades who were killed and the rest of our dead. So at that time when there was the Homeland War, people when they were fighting, then, 72 years old, I was very young, I think young and remember all these operations, now the attacks from Kiev to Vrlika, now these times come when Ratko Mladic burned everything, harao, proclaiming there some, but democracy is so that I can understand another opinion. I can't accept it, but we fought for democracy, we have to discuss it. But also, I can't accept that only one side, the political option defiled, demeaning the truth about the Homeland War. I'll do it again. With all the heavy words that have fallen on the Homeland War, on the role of people and Croatian defenders either from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, all the troops insulted by the HoS, mainly the people who were in HOS, from people who were in police, directors to all members and members of the Croatian Army, the greatest insult was to arrest, locate, transfer, process. It's the biggest insult. When it came to one of the heroes of the Homeland War, The biggest operation, General Ante Gotovina, to locate him, that's what he said, is the fact that Vladimir Shakespeare. And we must not now say that she only spoke to Racan's government or any government, and this is not a question of fellow Deur of Love, this is not just a question of this paper from which the law will arise, but an insult to the dignity of the Homeland War and to the truth of the Homeland War, because no one can say, especially then, the President of the Croatian Parliament to arrest, locate and arrest and transfer and prosecute anyone. In agreement with Sanader, then Prime Minister and Stipe Mesic, the president of the state. This thing that happened in this procession, hunting for Croatian heroes, giving the transcripts to The Hague, it was more insulting to Croatian defenders than all of this on paper that wrote these what they call them just before, privileges or whatever they want to call them. So the most important thing is the truth about the Croatian soldier, promoting the truth, investing in the truth. We have a number of cameramen, from Peter Malbash and my Sinjan, who left a great trail, it stands to unite and tell the truth about home work schools in Vukovar, not to have two schools. One where Serbian history is entered, in another Croatian history. We have the same state, it is the Croatian state, people of Serbian nationality have to accept them, we accept them as citizens of Croatia, political, I think, and we must not further promote that we are going into some law, so it turns out that we have passed this law, it is insulting, civil sacrifice laws, and that we do not have a registry of aggressors, we have to have a registry of aggressors. It is a future law and it offends more defenders and demotes because they are responsible for this democracy and Mr Bakic's attitude just before, my colleagues Djakic and me and all of us who are here to debate and it is the merit of the Croatian defender and some different attitudes and we are arguing in different attitudes and we are not enemies, we are not tripping along. But we must not throw mud on one political option when the other was doing and perhaps even worse things towards those who created the country, which is the foundation of the Croatian state, and the foundation is the Croatian defender and Croatian soldier and believe me I can analyse this law, I can talk about this law, but one thing is now after this time what the minister admits that basically the Law after three years is not enforceable. And it's not just nomotechnical changes, there's a lot of changes here. A great deal of the cans is changing this existing law and trust me when we talk democratically and when we don't just muddle politically that one government has done something against and the other doesn't. Well, the tent was built because of the Civil Victims Act, the tent Mr. Deur, where you were, the same law you're going to support today, and that's the truth. So let's not throw mud, speak democratically, don't trip along with me, you can lift the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, you can tell me what you want, but the most politicization at any given moment was insulting the defenders. So, politicization and note arrest, always ringing in my ears, I don't know why. But it is the fact that it is the greatest insult to the Croatian defenders. That's my attitude, no more insults than Vladimir Seks' statement, when he said to the wild beast, they wouldn't behave like that, because the Animal Protection Association would rise, I love, I love, I love green politics, too. These are pains, so let's not get muddy, but let's discuss this law democratically, and when we disagree, however, we cannot accept the fact that the law is being discussed in the context of people who took the gun in 91, that anything they were privileged to do at the time. I can't accept that fact, these people, among other things, my comrades, were on this side alive, there was Cipe General Prkačin or Mr. Sačić or irrelevant Deur, Djakic or my fellow ministers, we are in the same trench, i.e. Together, we didn't wonder if you were left, you were right, you were partisans, you were Ustasha, it was our same goal, Croatia's freedom. The same goal, and let us no longer take political points on Croatian defenders and on their blood and blood. Whether from the left, or from the right, or from my party. And that is what is fundamental, it is based on a good, fair law for all Croatian defenders, unfortunately this last one, which is now in force, was inconclusive and therefore certain, a large number of Croatian defenders who have applied for these rights, unfortunately, because of the incompetence did not exercise those rights. And if this law tries, or the goal is to achieve it, then it's a good thing. Can we change these things with amendments? We can. But we must no longer insult these people, if there are troublesome things to speak of, but to insult people, to politicize them, as politicized by the Civil Victims Act, as a key point, one of the key points, when the tent was in Savska 66, now Nevenka Topalović Square, deceased. And now that same law of those who organized, now it's a good law and of course it's a bad message, so much for it. So, defenders and Croatian soldiers, and the only thing that matters to us is the truth about the Croatian soldier, and you can tell me that it is more insulting to the Croatian defender's untruth and politicization than all this is written on paper. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53917	It is now in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, Mr. Stipo Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53918	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as I can see in the assembly there is no SDSS, I'm surprised they won't constructively discuss the Law on Croatian Defence, to fix it, it's very strange for me, and when the Civil Victims Act of War, as I recall Dragan Jeckov, was very interested in this Act. But it doesn't matter, we'll do it without them. The General Forgiveness Act covers about 20,000 people, why is this important? The government and Minister Medved have been torn by the belief that the awakened Serbs and aggressors cannot participate in the rights of Croatian defenders, here I will now publicly deny them with this piece of paper, which most of those present here know, but wants to forget. We all know that the defence of independence, territorial integrity, sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the time of direct threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the period until 5 August 90 to 30 June 96. We also know that the process of peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube is completed 15. 1. In '98. Here I have a picture of a work book, a later recognised job internship under the name and headquarters of the company MUP Krajina, Vukovar in the time of 17. Ten. 91-29. Seven. 97. So 5 years, 9 months and 13 days of recognised internship based on a solution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. This fact, as well as the fact that as a member of the SAO Krajina MU, along with the abolization given by Croatia, this person may also request volunteer status under the new Defence Act. The minister did not even try to correct it, but that is why the ministry is concerned with denying statements that have never been made, in the way that the ministry is trying to present them to its shame. Of course, I mean my statements. Defending a coalition partner, his perfidious intentions, his primitive attacks on Croatian defenders, apparently became the only priority of the current Croatian Defence Ministry. We remember all the faceless assaults and charges of MP Jeckov in this Assembly, when she accused the Vukovar defenders of a crime and after that faceless lie along with MP Pupovac left the Assembly, in order to avoid the truth that followed, of course again from me. We also remember that, unfortunately, the minister and representatives of the HDZ were silenced at that time. It doesn't matter what a disgusting lie has been given against the Vukovar defenders, unfortunately there are coalition pals who were the priority to keep quiet. I read this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. When read by a person who has no idea about the defence problem, it seems that the rights of defenders are being extended again, but the truth is completely different. Let's say the right of the Croatian defender to care for housing. It took 22 years for this ministry to resolve 18,000 demands. There are about 10,000 remaining unsolved. So this dynamic resolution can be expected in 10 years if and then the number of resolutions from year to year is reduced, and I haven't found any data on how many apartments are allocated. How are we aware of the fact that 14 defenders die every day is a question of which of these 10,000 will experience the possibility of living care or the rights of the pension system? We've been listening recently to a fake anti-fascist lie that the average defense pensions are 6200 kuna. This false anti-fascist lies for only his known reasons because the real truth is that the average pension of Croatian defenders according to the latest available data is 4200 kuna, and the lowest defence pension is exactly 2558 kuna and 25 June, which is less than the estimated amount of compensation for civil invalids of war. Isn't that the shame of this state and the Ministry of Defense? No need to be surprised by the disrespect of Croatian defenders and the faceless attacks on them by the media, which is by the strategic coalition partner when the Ministry of Defence does not stop at the defense of Croatian defenders. We are entering the fourth year of implementation of this law in which the legislator has understood what we know from the beginning of the application, which is that deadlines and procedures for the exercise of certain rights exceed the deadlines laid down in the law. 500 of them will never exercise their right to the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid because after this long-term procedure was launched, they died. Why the law does not state that the minister will also commit to amending the Regulation concerning the deadlines of provisional solutions, because they are currently not only too long, but also unnecessary. This is about chronic diseases diagnosed and controlled for more than 20 years. Should the Minister be given the same powers that this proposal gives him to amend and supplement? For example, in Article 65, in conjunction with Article 182. The minister shall be empowered to appoint both presidents and members of the medical councils. I suggest you appoint the president of the medical council, and for the members of the medical council, he has to go on a public call. I think that would be most ideal. Unfortunately, once again, it is a missed opportunity to edit some other items of the law such as those related to the rights of the HVO. They are still the most damaged by this law, because you have not introduced changes that stop their discrimination. They are the most underrated and most discriminated against group that has given so much for Croatia, so little from Croatia. And these changes that are listed in the amendments and additions have come well, but they are insufficient. I'm sorry this government didn't find enough hearing and compassion for our brothers and sisters members of the HVO and could and had to. Let's move on. This time, the government did not want to remove conditions that humiliate not only Croatian defenders, but also families who were killed in terms of the conditions of exercise of the right to priority in employment under the same conditions. In particular, instead of collecting and delivering piles of documentation, an amendment to Article 103 has been proposed. By simple invitation to Article 101. Why? Because we believe that Croatian defenders deserve the highest standard of law. If members of national minorities can by simple invitation to Article 22. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, without obligation, shall give priority to employment. How is it possible for Croatian defenders to not call on Article 101? Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. Should I remind you that defenders are a constitutional category? Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the They fall into the water in an attempt to implement, because the real advantage in employment is achieved by members of national minorities by virtue of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and by simply calling for Article 22 in relation to the candidate with the same conditions. Since the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is not a constitutional category, it happened that the child of the late Croatian defender did not get the job but was given by an abolised Chetnik. Until the Defence Act becomes a constitutional category, all provisions on the advantage of employment and others have no meaning as well as provisions punishing a legal or natural person who has not acted in accordance with this law. And in the end, I'm going to repeat the question I asked last time. Why has it given up declaring this law constitutionally when we see from the practice that national minorities, and sometimes these members are also persons who participated in the aggression in Croatia have more rights than Croatian defenders. For many Croatian defenders, it is already too late, but we are still alive. We are still roasted by the injustices of this kind of law. There was a protest in Sava. Time's over? [[Thank you. Time.]] Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53919	Thank you very much. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53920	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. After 3 years of application of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements. The reasons for these changes are the organisational problems affecting the duration of the proceedings far beyond the legal deadlines in the process of achieving the status of the Croatian wartime wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, where the proceedings take place as you say two, three gonads. It is proposed to leave out the expert evaluation as part of the procedure that precedes further skills at the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Our view is that the previous expert assessment does not leave out, that its purpose is justified and that it is an assessment of the link between the current health situation and the war injuries. In addition, it is the Office’s task to determine the percentage of the damage not entering the assessment established by expert assessment. The practice has shown that there is a problem where even in the second degree, the Institute of Arts disproves professional evaluation and skill in the first degree, which is unfounded, and there is also a case law that speaks for it. Please state that the deadline for adopting a solution under the General Administrative Procedure Act is 60 days from the date of application. It is certain that these proposed amendments will not speed up the procedures and provisions concerning the time limits for the adoption of the solution will again be violated. These changes and the complementarity of ZOSI will be transferred to the full jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry as it was until 2015, as you state, on the grounds that the training of defenders requires a special methodology of work. Conscious specificities in the actions and justification of the special methodology of work must be noted that, already now, in the Office of Arts under the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and the members of their families, the art of a special organisational unit is carried out on the basis of a special list of damages to the organism. Therefore, there is already a legitimate specificity in actions. Issuing art at the Croatian Defence Ministry creates injustice against all other users who have been waiting unjustly for months. Institute of Arts for the Need of Social Care Resors, Pension Insurance, Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Fundamental Birth and Parent Support Rights, Protection of War and Civil War Victims, and for the purpose of establishing the psychophysical status of a child in the exercise of rights in the education system. The Institute of Arts has been performing jobs for all disabled persons since 2015 and we believe that it is fairer and more correct that the ZOSI field services have been strengthened by staff specialists from the field of expertise in order to make all users more accessible and to continue their work without the need to separate defenders. According to data provided by the Office of Arts by lawyers for persons with disabilities for full-time effectiveness in solving the problem, about 50 more specialists in full-time should be employed. The establishment of special medical councils will be employed by an additional medical staff that could be directed to the Office of Skills for the benefit of all users. For example, at the beginning of 2020, the overall outstanding backlog of the case was 25 thousand 533 items, of which 5 thousand 288 were related to determining the status of the Croatian military disabled, and at the end of the year it means 15 thousand 350 items. So, 11 thousand 69 items of other art and 4000 281 items related to determining the status of a Croatian military disabled. So, it's undeniable that the Office of Art has difficulty, that procedures last for all and this separation as you say, space will be created for other users, but these actions continue to last long for all other users. In spite of these changes and additions to other users, for the benefit of all other citizens, it means to speed up and make it more accessible for him to have a purpose, because a lot of users, as you have stated, do not welcome the identification of the skills both in the defender's portfolio and in other portfolios, and we believe that they are all entitled to a full service. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements intends to correct injustices where the 3rd year has already been allowed for defenders who have been granted the right to status under the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and here this applies to participants of the National Protection if they have already made a pension under previous rules, the Pension Insurance Act does not have the right to recalculate or renew the procedure and the lowest pension under the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The defenders, meanwhile, have filed hundreds of lawsuits in the past 3 years and despite the powerful verdicts of the Administrative Court in Osijek and the High Administrative Court in Zagreb, in which solutions in the first and second stages of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute were annulled, continued universally in all the district services to reject recalculation requirements and thus to miss out on court practice. So it's undeniable what's happened in the last three years. Resorted Croatian Defence Ministry and Resort Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy have for three years allowed such legal uncertainty and non-implementation of judicial judgments which is a serious problem indeed. After a written inquiry by Minister Aladrovic in March 2021, a new treatment and interpretation of the rules that have been in force for 3 years has been established. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute suddenly accepted the legal position, so now in March 2021, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and harmonised its conduct and allowed the beneficiaries of pensions to be realised according to the general pension regulation to recalculate the pension under the provisions of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In practice, however, this again means that, unfortunately, despite the new recommendations by Minister Aladrovic, the defenders continue to experience injustice, continued regional services at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are being denied or allowed to recalculate their pension despite new recommendations. So if there are new interpretations brought by the Ministry of Social Policy, i.e. work, pension system and social policy, then why should these proposals be re-adjusted, amended by law, amendments and additions to the proposed law if there is a new interpretation. However, new interpretation is not available again in practice. So here, it's hard for us to understand, let alone the defenders who address their rights in the competent areas of the Pension Insurance Office. The rights are further extended, and our question is how long will such practice take place, that after a quarter of a century a circle of defenders is expanded and recognises the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. It is intensities to satisfy individual interests, introduce additional rights and members of their families, and the existing law was not as enforceable as we had here and in the debates had the opportunity to hear. As a reason for the adoption of this law is the acceleration of housing, but the entry for the housing of people with disabilities in the Homeland War has been adopted by amending and supplementing the 2021 budget with projections for 20 and 20 and 3 years reduction of the item by 36 million 4.00,000 kuna. Now you're talking about speeding up the process, and you haven't achieved your planned goals in this six-month period either. In this year's death, 5681 defenders died last year. The death of the defender is increasing and their damaged health status and years of age leads to an ever-increasing need for health and social services. The need for palitative care, accommodation problems for all users of the social care system and the accommodation of the defenders is a challenge that the resolution ministries must engage to an ever greater extent. Only 8% of the defenders should be, only 8% of the defenders who conducted a systematic review were assessed as healthy, which is an alarming data. The reason for the amendments to the law should be health services and social care to defenders other than financial care because the psychophysical health of defenders is now more disrupted than it was in postwar years. As regards the extension of the rights of war veterans and members of their families, we do not consider that further enlargements are necessary, that defenders within the scope of the state budget are adequately taken care of, and that, especially if other social groups, civil people with disabilities, pensioners, socially endangered, unemployed and young, and those who work for the minimumer and their families. Respecting the great sacrifice of our war veterans and the interest of Croatian defenders, we now believe that the circumstances that require the help of the economy, the preservation of jobs and the help of earthquakes affected areas and that is what requires the special interest of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53921	I love you, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and Glass. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53922	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are today in the 21st year of the 21st century. Children born after the Homeland War who did not experience the Homeland War, so these children today already have their children and those children who are on the verge of primary school. So the second generation is already a line that hasn't heard of casualties in the Homeland War. And here we are, 30 years after the war, still counting how many defenders have defended this country, still talking about the rights of defenders from that war 30 years away. We still justify all our weaknesses, our poor state of society, our economic backlog, the backlog at the level of development of all democratic institutions very often, so justly as we had war. It's like the war was yesterday, and it's been 30 years since the war started and two generations of children who don't know the war have grown. It's really embarrassing for all the brave defenders, today the veterans who have defended us, who have chosen this country. So it's a shame that there is even one today who has failed to exercise his rights, especially because of the slowness of the administration. That's defeating. It is sad today, 30 years after the war, we also have many bad examples that, through their illegal takeover of credit by using various rights, give priority to the right defenders who deserve these rights. Because you know when the news starts that someone's built something illegal and we charge it in the media, etc. He starts defending himself, and I'm a Croatian defender. Therefore, Croatian defenders have no right to act illegally and I do not believe they have fought for this state in which lawlessness and lawlessness will rule. The minister said in his first reading discussion that today we have 430,000 living defenders. Immediately after the war, if you remember President Tudjman's speech about the state of the nation in 1995, he said, "I quote: "337579 Homeland War monuments were distributed to all military and civilian participants. Last '95. The year's size of the Croatian army ranged from 96800 to 205397 people, with 158412 mobilized military taxpayers. 38350 members of the interior ministry's regular forces also participated in the Homeland War. This is if we add the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Army to this larger number we have about 250,000 defenders in President Tudjman's '95 report. A year. Today we have 430,000. Last time we spoke in our first reading about the need for a review of data in the defence register for full transparency to remove any doubt about its credibility and preserve the dignity of both the Homeland War and the defenders. and the Homeland War and the defenders. It should also provide information on the members of the families of the deceased, the missing defenders, on all those exercising some rights under this Law. So the database must exist. Whether she's public or not is now another question, but the database has to exist. In this Act, we have a new definition that says that the participant of the Homeland War is a person who is not a Croatian defender, but who has contributed to the defence of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia in the exercise of military and other duties under the orders of the competent authorities of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons owned or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, it'll be all those who didn't carry weapons, all medical personnel, war reporters, members of fire squads, sailors, crew members of merchant Navy ships and members of civil protection. Which rights will be granted to them we don't know yet, but we'll find out later by means of a rule by the Minister. We've already talked a lot about this new model of art. Here, again, I will mention the ZOS was designed in 2014 in a project financed by the World Bank loan. 70m euros were therefore invested in a project to modernise the social protection system, because at the time we said we had too many disability pensions, the criteria for going to disability pensions should be tightened and the Institute of Skills organised. But here's the Internship Office. It's too slow now. I agree that's terrible. Is that why he works too slow? Why don't you speed up the procedure and set some deadlines? However, this Law therefore proposes to skip the Office so that its jurisdiction as regards the defender is fully placed in the power of the Ministry of Defence and that the expertise be taken over by a medical commission whose members will be appointed by the minister personally. Therefore, in the first degree, three doctors will decide, and possibly in the second one, the appeal committee of five doctors who will be paid under the contract of action. Therefore, all new requirements from Croatia, but also from Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on their membership to the HVO, will be skilled before these committees instead of the authorised public institution. So here I asked why not speed up the processes within that office if we are dissatisfied with how the Institute works, rather than pulling out experts now or hiring some new experts who will not know whether now as I said the Ministry of Education is here for the people who are there through their ministry now they will have some commissions. Each of the ministries, the Ministry of Sports, sort of their own committees, etc. So why don't you at one of the Offices of Arts work on getting procedures inside that Institute certainly speeding up? They need to speed up, if I say so, we don't think this is the right way. The war route for the acquisition of new rights will also no longer be necessary to document the war route. The promoter argues that this is excessive, since obtaining evidence of the war route prevents the conduct of proceedings within the legal time limit and that war travel data for each Croatian defender is already on the defence record. So you don't have to prove them. We are particularly against multiple housing within a family. Here is an article 26 that allows family members to be taken care of. The children of the late Croatian defender who has already been taken care of are already being talked about. So they already have apartments. Here's a new right, and we'll take care of them again. In Article 34, we also introduce the right to assign a garage and to own it. We are absolutely opposed to the provisions that this ministry excludes from the other laws. So, where it is said that no law on civil servants will apply, etc. It is also incomprehensible in the Parliament's report that the Ministry no longer needs to submit a report, an annual report to the Parliament on the application of this Law. As regards the priority employment of children defenders, therefore, the rights to the priority employment of children and members of the rope and extended families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders are further regulated. However, here's as I said the youngest child of the Croatian defender who was born at the end of 95 is now 26 years old, so 26 years old. Therefore, the minister asks that children of volunteers, wartime disabled persons, defenders with at least 100 days of the fighting sector whose parents use benefits for unemployed or guaranteed benefits be provided with priority employment at all jobs in public services and institutions that are founded or one of the founders of the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, city or county. The advantage is also sought for the already employed children of defenders working on jobs that do not correspond to the degree of their education and compete for better and high fines are imposed. Another controversial detail for units of local self-government that will be required free of charge to grant construction land and utility to all those defenders from their site who have been granted a loan to build a house. So, edit access roads, public lighting, environment for the need to use the building. So, introduce all the connections, the network, bear the cost of the communal contribution. So Croatian defenders deserve every honor and concern, our deep gratitude. They gave the most anyone could give to their homeland. It is inadmissible as I said that today he is still 30 years old after the war, there are defenders who have failed to exercise their rights for the slowness of the administration. That's really desperate. But if this is the right way to solve it, that's the question. So, I'm not at all arguing that it's defeating the state that we have defenders who today have failed to exercise their rights. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53923	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53924	However, if there is one Croatian defender who has failed to exercise his rights in 25 years, and we have learned that it has been argued that it is not only one, but it is a systematic problem that re-changes the law, it is a defeat of all of us, a social defeat. But that defeat has both a political name and a last name, because those who brought us into this situation that after 25 years, so almost their lives have passed, they don't get the status they deserve today are the ones who are nominally fighting for that same status. The question is then justified whether they do it for these same defenders or offer another half solution, and this solution shows that they were all previous and half-way because otherwise this would not be necessary so that they could buy their votes again each time, allegedly working on behalf of Croatian defenders. Among the two Croatians as we were offered here is one which speaks of the rights of defenders as privileges that I strongly condemned and the other which does not allow us to critically think about the proposed legal solution by ignoring everything that has been offered too much in the debate in the Croatian Parliament there is an entire spectrum and the whole of Croatia between which wants to valorise the contribution of Croatian defenders and who is aware of their sacrifice, but who wants to do so in a just way that will primarily benefit them. I think we're all aware that the biggest problem that has happened and that can no longer be made as a decision to pull back, the fact that a whole generation of a working-age population, a defense population in a capable age, has retired as it has later become social, but for them and a health problem. Instead of allowing them to create Croatia for which they fought, we sent them to retire where they could not do anything but return to their war path, which further traumatized them. In the previous explanation of the law, I made it clear why I think it is not good that such a legal proposal and these skills are left exclusively in the hands of politics. Tomorrow, at the head of the Ministry of Defense who may then be abolished may be some kind of political option that will, for example, consider what is radical from my perspective, that it should not be marked by Knin or the anniversary of the Storm. You find that impossible? Well, that's the kind of political option we have at the head of the capital right now. And what happens then is that everything is in the hands of the ministry. No minister is eternal, so neither are you, Mr. Bear. And if you work for the benefit of Croatian defenders, then you need to think about how to secure a system that will protect them regardless of the political option that is currently at stake, not while you are there, if we consider that your intentions are truly honorable. And finally, I want to say something about what a privilege it is, because it is a problem that often occurs in society especially in my generation, which is privileged by the fact that her family is often healthy, so she is also experiencing as an act and the fact that someone can report to the competition and be privileged because she is a child of Croatian defenders. Slavica Schnurs made a really shaken movie from that day on about children killed in the war. In many cases they are also children of Croatian defenders. It's too hard to talk about that movie, and I hope everyone looks at it. But when you see in it a person who, after being killed and her husband is a Croatian defender and both children, has found the strength to go on humanitarian missions and to be further educated, and says that the only thing waiting for her to go through is to have it written on the tombstone, then you realize that it is really insensitive of us to talk about any material rights as privileges. Lost lives can't be compensated. We can only be happy that we can offer anything in return to those who are no longer here and who suffer their families. I can also say something about the end of Croatia as I imagine it should be. This is Croatia where there is room and business opportunities and there is no competition in an unhealthy way between the children of the defender and all other capable youth. This is Croatia which has given all rights to children of Croatian defenders, and among these children there are many who have decided to give up these rights themselves because they could compete in a different way for the places where they compete but it always remains their own choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53925	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53926	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs do not now enter your observation about what you said about the Homeland War, I am only interested in whether it is normal and appropriate to speak in the Croatian Parliament about the privilege of Croatian military disabled people. So, when he started the Homeland War, it wasn't a picnic, and it wasn't even an invitation to leave. So the real Croatian patriots went to war, and now, after so many years, things that are not appropriate happen and that don't actually serve the honor of people who say that people are offended in this way. I would not give my health for any of us to call it the privilege some call Croatian defenders achieve, which is therefore a bad message through the media that our young people listen to that our Croatian wartime disabled are privileged Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53927	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53928	So there are some things that are easy to catch in Croatian and in any other society, and they are caught because many people are in an invisible situation, and they are in an unspeakable situation because politics did not allow them to prosper, but only the most similar ones. One of them is the very story of privileged ones. So it falls on fertile soil. In order for humans to justify their unspeakable situation, they will easily think that they are guilty, and they will easily call them privileged. So I think it is necessary to seek political responsibility because of this situation that we have found ourselves in, and the speech about someone who has lost family members in any material sense that some compensation or law is truly privileged is really one form of serious moral insensitivity that creates a deeper division in society and potentials a form of primitive dialogue on difficult topics that will certainly not help us solve these traumas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53929	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53930	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs, believing that you say good intentions, I also believe in your good intentions through all these 20 years of what the Homeland War was going through is the first place, it is a measure and strength through Croatian defenders and the resolution of their families. This is all what we believe today, what Minister Medved came to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, if we remember it and if it were good in the truth, here I am asking you to single out one day, half an hour, an hour to really stop by the Ministry of Croatian Defence, believing that you know but to be even better, better quality, more emotional to see and to really see these privileges, this is the biggest tragedy of the Homeland War led to The Hague, and the privileges that individuals from the higher institutions called the Homeland War until General Markac and Gotovina came out. It's a tragedy of our society, our community and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53931	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Thank you very much. Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53932	I agree with that, but I will also point out that I don't think the rights of the defenders are to be used to acquire their own political points, nor to speak of them to any of us apriors giving some kind of moral credibility so that we can be ourselves by mentioning them better than others. Do you know when a catharsis in Croatian society will happen in my court if it ever comes to that? It will happen when the first under quotes a simplified unquestioned right-wing man faces all the problems and malfeasances that occur both with defenders, as well as issues of false wartime invalids and all the difficulties they gather, and when the first under quotes the unquestioned left-handed advocates authentically for rights and social sensitivity to defenders always criticise them. When we step out of our assigned positions and open up such questions, then there will be this crucial change in society to make everything better, which I believe is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53933	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53934	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I agree with you that it is always better to build a system that will not rest solely on an individual because we never know which individual will come after someone who has truly honorable and good intentions. I'll remind everyone here that these days we've celebrated the 30th of the 106th of October, 107th of Valpovac, Virovitica if I'm not wrong on Monday. So... Yeah, thanks, 30 years later here to talk about some caste, privileged defenders, that's sad. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think, basically, we're all privileged here and we should be grateful to that little group of people who did what they were supposed to do 30 years ago. So it doesn't contribute too much to discussing the use of such words and I think we should all avoid it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53935	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53936	That's why I reacted to them first. However, instead of being as standard to us, we are disgusted by what our colleague Bakic said, we should first look in the mirror and see that there are a large number of Croatian citizens who really consider the rights of defenders as privileges. And then we need to ask the question why did this happen. It is natural for most citizens to take off their hats and honor those who have allowed them to have land. Let us remember the percentage of Croats in the referendum opted for Croatia's independence, and people today often especially younger generations think of them as privileged. Why is that? There's an answer to that question. Because they do not have the choice or the ability to realize all their potentials, and in this hopelessness they are cornered by turning against each other. A healthy Croatian youth and children of Croatian defenders, instead of being able to build this Croatia together, they oppose each other. Who brought us here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53937	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53938	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak in his speech on behalf of the club I said what offends the defenders most. And what we should do as parliamentary representatives, as minister, is the most important truth about the Croatian soldier and the Homeland War. We often have various statements about the members of the HOS, the Croatian Defence Council, the Croatian Army, the directors, the police who are muddying and people who are essentially the cornerstone of this democratic system and this parliamentaryism and the parliament in which we are sitting. So, the key truth about the Homeland War is, and the hard words that came during this whole period after the Homeland War really insulted the defenders and disrespected them the most. For this reason I mentioned one sentence which remained four words that were mortally difficult for defenders to locate, arrest, transfer, process Croatian hero... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53939	Thank you very much. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53940	Too many answered questions I will agree with you fellow Bulls who did not allow this wound to heal. Among them is one that is not sufficiently spoken of, and that is the documentation of the Vukovar Hospital that will also reveal the truth to us both about the missing and all the victims of the Homeland War in that area. Until these issues are resolved, until we statenize ourselves against our neighbours, this wound as well as many others will not heal. It takes political courage to invent constantly new legal solutions that remain unsettled, showing that they change every few years will not lead us far. Unfortunately, it reminds us in the first order of the trauma of failure that 25 years since the war, so life almost passed there are people who have failed to resolve their status and that is the key message of these changes unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53941	Thank you. Now will speak the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53942	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. There are a few things I find important here to repeat. First of all, I want to give a clear picture of the thesis, which has been created in light of the creation of a picture of Croatian defenders and the Homeland War for many years. So Croatian defenders are part of our people, part of the population, but the most powerful part, and mostly during the time of the Homeland War, the greatest burden was carried out by people from 20 to 25 years of age. So to all of you, full of information so that we don't tell the truth and that we don't send the wrong messages from this constituency. So, I remind you that in 2017, through a single law, we resolved many questions, and I will remind you that nearly 50,000 Croatian defenders died without wanting to exercise their rights because the law had previously been disabled. That's what I want to repeat and underline. After that, Croatian defenders who were ill in the defence of their country and the consequences of their defence of their country could not achieve the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. One direction that was among other things is to direct Croatian defenders who have a working capacity in the world of work, and primarily to preserve those Croatian defenders who are employed in the world of work. And on this day where 428715 Croatian defenders live, and you ladies and gentlemen MPs can always ask and receive full information from the Ministry of Croatian Defence about the real situation. So 428715 living Croatian defenders. In working relation to today there are 173493 Croatian defenders and this is an important picture and it is an important view of status. He doesn't have a pension, and he's not employed. 76430 Croatian defenders. One of our main directions for these Croatian defenders who are not employed, have no pension and have no grounds for retirement. Retired under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, it is very often singled out and stressed the benefits of 54 020 Croatian defenders. 13% of Croatian defenders use retirement. To a certain extent, this pension, including time spent in the Homeland War, was implemented in the fighting sector earlier. And what I find important to emphasise is precisely the law of 2017 is systematically based on facts, based on real state, and the measures that have been adopted are the measures institutionally setting up a framework, regardless of who the minister was establishing a system so that through legal provisions each competent body is clearly and precisely directed towards the Croatian defender, in relation to the right to employment and in relation to the measures to be consumed within the framework of the legal framework. And here, when we talk about this measure, it is one of the measures that we have laid down by the law of 2017, an open deadline for obtaining the status of a Croatian wartime invalid on the basis of a disease, we respect the fact that from 2007 to 2018, the deadline has been closed, and we are talking about that hole where people could not consume their rights because the law made it impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53943	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53944	Dear Ministers Medved, as you could hear with indignity I refused to bid on the garages and material rights of Croatian defenders. As far as I'm concerned, give them more than this, because there is no material compensation for what they gave most for our country. However, when you say this, I agree with you as you do with me. So the key problem is that they have failed to exercise their rights before. 50,000 of them didn't see that coming. 67430 doesn't have a pension. But, Mr. Bear, who's responsible for this? Whose law was that before? Who brought him in without being able to make their rights possible through him. It's a question I've asked here, and it's not to run from.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53945	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53946	So it is clear when a normative act is passed and it is clear who is responsible. I, too, am today responsible as a promoter on behalf of the Government for what I propose, as I am today, to report to you on what has been done in the term of office since the government's adoption to this day. As we have responsibly detected where impediments and difficulties in the application of the Law have not been kept silent, we have not easily understood the difficulties in applying them, but with much responsibility and we approach the removal of detected irregularities to a concrete extent and in these concrete proposals that are now in these amendments to the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53947	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53948	This Regulation shall enter So no concrete answer was provided. The HDZ government is also responsible. You're not personally, but the HDZ government is then raising the question of whether this is another insufficient change. But as far as what you're offering, I believe you want to improve the status of Croatian defenders, you have my full support. But we also need to be clear about what is the responsibility of that number that you have listed here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53949	Dear MPs and you know that it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you already have two warnings, so by virtue of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53950	Dear Mr. Minister, the fact is that Croatian defenders who had virtually no luck but were not wartime military disabled were practically not injured had no rights other than the right to military honor at the funeral and yet some minor rights. Now this law is making it right, and now some say it's pretty late. However, I think the laws are there just to change and to sort of correct themselves as much as possible in the best way possible. It is now regulated in Article 26(3) that people who spent up to 2 years on the line are practically entitled to care as disabled up to 20% of the group. Those who have spent 3 years and more have the right to like 30% of the disabled. I think it's good and it's kind of a compensation maybe a little late, but there was government, different governments, and there was an opportunity to make it right. It's just now here in a way... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53951	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53952	Thank you very much. Your Honor, then, it is clear that we also know the sequence of problems. It is clear that we are addressed in detail to status and difficulty and it is clear that with full responsibility we are finding proposals for a solution and we are coming before the Croatian Parliament with the proposal to amend the law with one goal that where difficulties have been observed to remove them because it is a basic mission to fully create preconditions for the full implementation of the proposed or passed law, and in this case we are doing so for several measures. One measure is to speed up the process of enabling the status of the Croatian military disabled to be acquired by respecting the attitude of the medical profession, the relationship between participation in the Homeland War or the course of wartime service with disease or injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53953	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53954	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I am sorry that my colleague Rasdic received a third warning, because I would say that the HDZ government of Jadranka Kosor in 2007 stopped what you started in 2017 and you should be congratulated on that. But what have you done with the war damage lawsuits against Serbia? Today, two of their intelligence officers Stanisic and Sinatrovic are sentenced in The Hague to 12 years in prison, Croatia and your government, the current government has no intention of making a damage claim to Serbia, and we have the rulings of the International Hague Court where we can do so so that they can pay wartime people with disabilities, to pay for the civilian victims of the war that we will now discuss after this point. You're on your way now. Don't let anyone say again in five years, so the former government didn't press charges for Serbia in 2021 or 2022. Set up a lawsuit. Sue Serbia and you have all justice on your side that's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53955	The Honorable Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53956	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I don't know where you draw that knowledge that our government has no intention of launching this procedure. I said on several occasions already during an earlier debate that our government, that all resolution ministries are working intensively to look at all legal frameworks and find a legal basis for this job. As far as the verdicts are concerned, I am expressing bitterness today, and I believe that the Board of Appeal will respect the parameters set out in that prison for all the crimes committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53957	MP Mlinaric has raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53958	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. Mr. Bear, I draw from the fact that the government has not filed a lawsuit to this day, that's a fact. You can say whatever you want now. Where's the lawsuit against Serbia? Where is the lawsuit for campers who were in Serbia's territory from Nis, Zrenjanin, Sremska Mitrovica? She's gone. Where's the compensation for the collapsed churches, for the collapsed villages, for the collapsed cities? She's gone. So don't tell me where I draw the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53959	Like this, you know it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you nicely, do not abuse that institution in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, don't, because I will be the first to spend hours and hours here every day and watch you MPs consciously abuse that institution, the first to suggest that it be abolished, that it be abolished because it is systematically, consciously abused. Yeah, don't do that. I'm asking you nicely. Of course I'm giving you a warning, but there's no point in giving you a warning. The point is to stick to some rules. If we don't follow the rules, we'll be like the jungle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53960	... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53961	You will receive a second warning from your colleague Mlinarić. Please be careful. Honorable representative Nadj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53962	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Medved, you said you worked in cooperation with the associations in 2017. You have set a deadline for recognition of the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and you have opened the deadline for recognition of the status of the Croatian War War War War of the Homeland War based on disease. However, you should have seen in the beginning that the premonition is actually holding that process back. Since 2017, you have given hope to Croatian defenders that they will exercise their status and rights, and these statuses and associated rights cannot be realised. And how did you protest from the tent that it was necessary to restore the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, is this the return of dignity to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War? For three years, you've actually stalled them, and you haven't allowed them to exercise their status and rights. Isn't that hypocritical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53963	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53964	The courageously respected representative Nadj is from you who are well acquainted or should be familiar with everything that is, primarily with the state that was in that portfolio of the Ministry of Croatian Defence. Although you did not even call it Croatian then, you completely incorrectly informed or concluded that nothing had been done. More than 6,000 new statuses of Croatian wartime wartime invalid, several thousand new Croatian defenders, so the law is in full application. Here we are talking about the points where the process is slowed down, and therefore we want to speed up this process with these proposed changes so that we can fully implement all the laws of the envisaged actions. It's not true that the law isn't consummated. It's very consummating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53965	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Nadj, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53966	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter The law is not in full application. If the law were in full application, we wouldn't be sitting here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53967	On the basis of Article 239, I give you a reminder [[I wouldn't be...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53968	.... I wouldn't be...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53969	On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. Don't abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure. I will seriously advocate at the Parliament Presidency that this institution be abolished because it is continuous, consciously abuse what abuse is actually democracy. It's not democracy to abuse some of the rules we agreed on. It's anarchy, and I'm not gonna let that happen. Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53970	Dear Mr. Minister, we heard each other here during the debate of everything and everything. At least the point of this law. Anyone who listened to you in the introduction, even now and who otherwise communicates with you knows how hard and hearty you fight for the rights of the defender. And here it is necessary to say and repeat and state Mrs. Nadj's position that this amendment to the Law Upgrade of 2017 is an improvement of what has been seen to be bad and this word in Croatia that appears a privilege should be banned and mentioned here at all when it comes to defenders. Was it a privilege to lose arms, legs, lives, is it a privilege to stay without a father, without a mother? And here's where the privileges are mentioned. You had your chance, you were in the ministry. You could have passed that Law of 2017 and you could have repaired it in 2017 in this way, and today would have been even better. Don't focus too much on some of those, focus on what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53971	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53972	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So it's completely, Klaric I apologize, it's quite clear to Klaric that we will repeat and we must always repeat that the law applies throughout the spectrum of our measures that we adopted in 2017. [[Intruder Reiner: Klaric.]] One of them was then introduced for the first time that Croatian defenders, if they are retired and are able to work today 8 thousand of them are working on pension, that it is support for Croatian defenders to stay in the world of work, that it is support for the involvement of Croatian defenders in all segments of Croatian society and that this is recognition of points in the system where the slowdown occurs and the solution to speed up these processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53973	Thank you. And now it will be replicated by a respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53974	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Mr. Bear about the Croatian defender today we will hear different opinions, each from his own political spectrum angle. But the fact is one thing. You're the secretary of defense from the previous government, you've continued to do so in this term. What's the problem? Is the General Administrative Procedure Act telling us that within 60 days of that test period we have to give someone a solution, have we noticed that now and want to correct it to facilitate the procedure? Because we all have people in our area who were Croatian defenders, they didn't get their status. Are we going to help them? Will we help us to vote against this Law as many proclaim here or by supporting this Law to help them? Because that makes us different here. Are we in order to help them and solve the flaw we noticed, or are we going to leave and say so that they can cope through what we did in 2017? I think we're on the right track, and you say here are the numbers. It's not just numbers. These are men and their fates and those who understand it, they will understand every article of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53975	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53976	Thank you very much, Representative Boric. So it is quite clear that these are measures that are recognised where the process is slowing down and everyone who cares about the systematic institutional approach and the affirmative approach towards Croatian defenders to support these steps, these measures because the organisational system is being set up to speed up the whole process. Unfortunately, in 2017, when we opened the deadlines, we received 1,000 requests, given that they had previously been unable to initiate the procedure, that there were many levels of slowdown in the process, and that is why we are correcting this. Those who declare that they praise Croatian defenders in a way that does not contribute through their own actions are not and cannot be welcomed by Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53977	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53978	Dear Vice-President, Croatian Defence Ministers are certain that, looking back all these years, we always wonder what these laws and what you have passed, not you, the Croatian Defence Ministry headed you. Why was that necessary? For what reason? Why, every few years since 2000, the rights of both Croatian defenders and the Homeland War have been on the table for certain situations. What happened? The past government in which Mrs. Nadj was in was the situation that the building had been moved almost, and it would have been the turn, not the Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53979	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53980	So, the responsible government recognizes, monitors the situation, has a proper attitude towards Croatian defenders, has a proper relationship with the Associations of the Homeland War, valorizes and values both the Homeland War and the victims of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders and civilian victims of the Homeland War in an appropriate manner. And through the normative acts, by finding appropriate solutions institutionally. Let us not ignore here the fact that by 2016 a separate pension was targeted according to the population of Croatian defenders, i.e. Croatian wartime disabled people and families killed precisely with the aim of creating uncertainty in this vulnerable population. Let's not ignore the fact that even supplies were thrown out of the Ministry of Defense's portfolio then and put into social service. It is a spectrum and range of measures that has been restored to the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53981	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53982	Here's the Honorable Minister, and I'm going to comment again on this new model of art. So, I absolutely understand the need when you notice that some process is too complicated and causes congestion, to then look for how to remove this stalemate, speed up. But as you suggested here now, it seems to me again that this process will not experience any acceleration. So, instead of being in the Office of Art, here's the team you're going to or the commission that you're going to set up for why you wouldn't be at the Office of Art and you're only dealing with the needs of the defenders, but you're taking it out of that office. So, after we founded it because there were observations, projects created, millions of euros were spent to optimise the whole process and modernise now we return to the situation before that. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53983	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53984	Thank you very much, Mr. Puljak. At the monthly level since the adoption of the law with workers of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system and with ZSOSI, we have conducted analyses of the items received and processed. Hundreds of meetings where we found ourselves, we tried to find a solution to speed up the process. We can't let the process last that long. And this now, this model, this proposal of final amendments and the addition of laws is based on our joint assessment, on the assessment of the profession, on the evaluation of the experts and on the overall analysis of exactly how the Councils will be established within the Croatian Defence Ministry, where experts, specialists for the implementation of the art, will be selected through a public call and thus speed up the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53985	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stipe Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53986	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. You know 14 defenders die every day. Unfortunately, that number is now higher because this is the 2019 data. The breaking news on almost every media is the number of dead from the crown, until this data was never breaking news and it had to. Because the average age of the Croatian defender who's been dying is 55 years. The average age of the dead of covid 19 is 77.8 years for 2020. The number of dead defenders is increasing and systematic checks and the construction of veterinary centres are obviously not sufficient measures, but should be approached completely and systematically. There's no sign of a voice in these amendments to the law. Care for the decent lives and health of Croatian defenders should be imperative equally as Croatia's freedom and survival was imperative for us. What God brings the HDZ together! Did you know that at the Vukovar Memorial Cemetery, they can't bury themselves in the same tomb as husband and wife? In these times when the number of dead Croatian defenders is alarmingly large we Vukovars are tormented with the burial of our loved ones. In fact, the Memorial cemetery is impossible in the same tomb, although three places are intended to bury a couple, but the family is exposed to a merciless situation, that parents must separate in death and bury in different graves. I don't know why this hasn't worked out by now, but I know it's increasingly demanding that this issue be resolved. And you see it as a question of people from the field that I meet every day. Unfortunately, an opportunity has been missed to edit some other items of the law such as determining the amount of the lowest pension of the Croatian defender whose amount is now embarrassingly low only 2500 kuna. I therefore propose to abolish a provision that regulates the lowest pension of the Croatian defenders by the Pension Insurance Act, but should be tied to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. The Defense Act has family members in its name. Then why doesn't he take care of all the family members? Why, for example, is release from public record and court costs not applicable to family members? Recently, I received information that after years and years of administrative and other proceedings, one defender finally resolved his status as a Croatian military disabled. He and his family live in a small place from that shamefully small pension. My wife doesn't work because she doesn't have a job. The school is not free of charge as she likes to emphasize it, and the house was supposed to be fixed. And then she tried to hand over a request to fix the houses, and then there was a cold shower. For each document, the child and wife must pay the state tax. Do you know how many documents it takes to collect for housing? 23 documents, and most of them are paid. So multiply it by the number of family members. Finally, the deadline for consultation on this legislative proposal was only 15 days. For many other laws, it's 30 days. Does the government show us with this example of how much it actually holds to the most responsible group for the existence of this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53987	We've got more replicas. Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53988	Your Honor, I'm glad you're back on specific defence issues. Excuse me. [[Intruder: Take off the mask please, I can hardly hear you.]] I am glad that you have returned to the specific problems of the defenders and the problem that more than 5600 defenders have passed away in the past year and their health conditions are becoming more and more difficult both because of illness and because of age and because of all the problems they have suffered for many years. What I am interested in and surely you have faced in the field problems with accommodation facilities, issues with palitative concerns where truly defenders are not allowed to accommodate and all their needs in view of the health and social services they need to be able and available, not only to them but also to other users, and this should certainly be taken into account regardless of their priority in housing. However, they are unable to take advantage of this priority because waiting lists in all homes are too large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53989	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53990	Dear colleagues, you're right. Unfortunately, Croatian paper defenders have many privileges and many advantages, and unfortunately this is not shown on the ground. For these health checks you've given me, and I can't hit this on the Secretary of Defense of the Bear, because he's not guilty of the coronary virus pandemic, he couldn't go to the hospital for tests. Before that he did that, I know I went to check-in four years ago, three years as campers. In this pandemic time unfortunately Croatian defenders did not go to the exams and there are many who suffer from the most severe diseases such as cancers and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53991	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53992	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mlinaric, it's hard to think that after all this time someone can take two-and-a-half thousand kuna pensions to call a privileged caste. It's really strange and incomprehensible to me. Well, I'm asking you now, that's where some garages, apartments were mentioned. How are you feeling? You're a werewolf defender. When someone says you're part of some privileged caste that definitely our defenders aren't, they don't deserve anyone ever calling them that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53993	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53994	I just wish my colleague Deur hadn't ordered this question. When you take my personal example, I'll tell you. I received 276,000 kuna from the Ministry of Defence and by letter, and I bought an apartment and raised another 250 000 kuna loan from the Zagreb Bank at 10% interest in 2000. I returned that loan as a Croatian military disability with those benefits that the law provides. I didn't get the apartment, I didn't get the apartment from this country, and I should've got it. I didn't insist on it. They said it was legal. I've seen that law play out in all ways, but it's not that fault, it's all the governments that were before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53995	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53996	Dear fellow Oh, I'm sorry, yes. [[Take off your mask and let me hear from you.]] You mentioned here this information that no family members, or husband, can be buried at the Memorial Cemetery. It's personal to me. It's the first piece of information. I am really interested in whose authority this is a cemetery, which is the role of the city of Vukovar and if it is not in the city's jurisdiction whether the city has launched any initiative or suggestion to solve this problem. Because maybe it's really not the place or the time to go about it now, after 20 years and a few years as that cemetery exists now someone thought it was a problem. Do you understand? So someone was supposed to run it through me from the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53997	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53998	Thank you very much for asking, because this is really a problem. And it's unfortunate that we haven't heard, and here's the parliamentary representatives, that's true, and the cemetery is under the Defense Department. The cemetery is under the Ministry of Defense, with intelligence. And if you were, and you were certainly in the Vukovar cemetery, you read nothing but one name, except for the grave of the Blessed Zadar where the treasure and son Robert were buried. But you didn't read any of your wives in one grave. What do you think, in the last 30 years, no one's wife has ever died from a defendant who died or died? Yes, she died unfortunately, but the family has a problem and has to buy another tomb in another cemetery and bury their mother and father in another cemetery. That's really not right. It's not human. It's out of my mind, here. But I guess the minister will answer that and say he'll handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u53999	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54000	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Mlinaric, you discussed how the government of the Republic of Serbia did nothing to collect damage from the Republic of Serbia. You said nothing was done. I will remind you of five special conditions and criteria in which another Serbia will ensure the protection of victims' rights and access to justice without discrimination. That's the second item. During the visit of Vucic to Croatia, the Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic had only one topic – compensation for the victims defined in this second item, which the European Commission nominated and accepted by Croatian diplomacy and put into special standards and criteria. Let me just teach you. We can get along in some things, but I can see you're not familiar with some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54001	Dear Representative Mlinaric. My fellow Mlinarić slowly, first I give you my word, then you speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54002	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54004	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Djakic, I will now teach you firsthand. The 15000 campers who were in Serbian camps among them and I have not won swear so far from a major diplomat that you said Plenkovic had negotiated with Vukic. Who got compensation for the camp? Who received compensation for the children killed in Croatia? Who received compensation for the collapsed churches, the collapsed cities? What's that? How many kunas came from the Serbian budget to the Croatian budget say publicly or let your minister say so? Here. And we immediately solved that riddle and your teaching.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54005	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54006	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Mlinarić, you have opened another issue of course for which the Ministry of Croatian Defence is responsible, and many of them are. I believe you know all the sequence and complete picture of the status of the Vukovar Memorial cemetery, I believe you do. I believe that you know that on 16 November 2000, a decision was taken by the Government to determine the status of the Memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War, and funds for the maintenance and protection are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence who manages the Memorial cemetery. Therefore, the Memorial cemetery of victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar is entered in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia, a list of protected cultural goods marked Z339I2. This further means that that cemetery has a special status and is not equated with other cemeteryes in the Republic of Croatia which are considered municipal facilities which are managed by local self-government units in accordance with their powers and means of security. This also means that graves for burial in certain alleys are provided free of charge in accordance with the intended purpose and established alleys, and that no annual grave payment is paid unlike any other cemetery, or municipal facilities. For the preservation, protection of cemeteries and protocol care in the cemetery, approximately 2.4 million kuna are allocated annually. Currently at the same cemetery, the Croatian Defence Ministry is conducting an upgrade to the administrative building, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Memorial cemetery, the construction of a morgue with a centre for visitors, sanitary nodes. Project worth 5.3 million kuna. The plan is to expand the cemetery and the graves for the burial of the dead Croatian wartime disabled and the families of the dead Croatian defenders, the construction of the chapel. The right to bury at the Memorial cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War in accordance with Articles 21 and 21 of the Regulation that regulates the issue, to exercise the right to the cost of burial with the addition of military honors, and the grave site and its maintenance have the mortally injured and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, the death of Croatian wartime wartime combatants, members of the family of the deadly or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, commanders of the defence of Vukovar, civilian victims of the Homeland War. The memorial cemetery has a unique status in the Republic of Croatia as one where only victims of the Homeland War were buried, while Croatian defenders in the Republic of Croatia are buried in cemeterys throughout the Republic of Croatia. Any change in the structure of the Memorial cemetery would mean losing his status. Dear Representative Mlinarić, if you have an initiative and a proposal to change the status of this cemetery, I invite you to refer the proposal to the Croatian Defence Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54007	The Republic has a respected representative, Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54008	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Medved, respecting everything you said and what really stands, respecting all the efforts and financial and material, all the resources used to mark the last resting place in a decent way are there to change, to change. Every day and every week we have changes, additions to the law. However, this is a sensitive issue, and despite the fact that Mlinarić has opened this particular question, we cannot escape from having families involved in some way, being cut off. And maybe it wouldn't be bad for them to rest together, no matter what, and respecting everything you've said. But here, if we have to, we'll make a proposal and hopefully the rest of them will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54009	Please, let's not leave the place. Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54010	So, since you now have a full picture of the status of this facility, I want to single out another fact that our government passed the Vukovar Act as a special homeland petite, that according to this law and council, it is formed for all activities that are directed towards the city, the place of a special homeland pite. That the Memorial cemetery is in accordance with the law is an integral part and within the jurisdiction of the council and that we will discuss and analyse on the council, and the council among other things is representatives of the city of Vukovar and the Association of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, as well as all bodies and institutions from the level of the Republic of Croatia, so I believe that when we receive your proposal that we will analyse it at the level of the Council and bring the relevant conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54011	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Rada Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54012	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, it is true that it has been 30 years since the start of the Homeland War and that we have not yet solved all those demands that we should have solved, but also the truth that some governments have been doing nothing for Croatian defenders. And I hope that this government, or this ministry headed by Minister Bear, will be able to resolve all those demands that have not yet been solved. The war was not a picnic, nor was it an invitation for some nostalgics from this perspective to fight hard and bloody for the free and independent state of Croatia and with an enemy who did not run away from anything. And that's why we can't let the greater rights be given to us by representatives of the so-called. The Munich Warriors or God forbid enemy soldiers from the true and honorable volunteers of the Homeland War. This law has made a step in regulating defence rights. We know that the law of 2017 has made great progress for the care of the defense sufferer population. However, after three years of application of the law, it has been observed that certain measures need to be further adapted to the needs of users in order to fully result in the planned effects. These changes are mostly technical and organisational. The main reason for the change is to speed up the procedure for achieving the status of Croatian wartime wartime disableds. In the process of achieving the status of Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War, there are normative organisational problems affecting the duration of the procedure far beyond the legal framework, and it concerns most professional evaluations. The General Legal Procedure Act, which has prescribed that an official is required in cases where the examination procedure is conducted upon request by the Party, to decide to make and deliver a solution to the party no later than 60 days from the date of submission of the regulated application, and the procedure of recognition of the status of the Croatian Military Disabilities, sometimes lasted three years. In view of the long-term duration of the procedure, it is necessary to leave out the previous expert assessment from the process of achieving the status of the Croatian wartime wartime invalid. Exclusion of a previous expert assessment from the process of achieving the status of a Croatian military disabled does not affect the quality of the procedure itself. Since the previous expert assessment has been carried out in health institutions during the Coronation Virus pandemic, it is further difficult to carry out a previous expert assessment. So far, over 15 million kunas have been spent for the needs of a previous expert assessment. In order to further speed up the process of artificialising Croatian defenders in the process of achieving the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled who has been conducted so far at the Institute of Arts, or the ZOSI, it is necessary, as the law and proposes, to continue as a corpus separatum of a separate body in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, because not only determines the degree of damage to the organism but also the causal link of damage to the organism, which is a special methodology of work which differs from other articulation procedures in the jurisdiction of the ZOSI. I've talked to a lot of doctors and they agree that this should actually work as a separate body. Rights granted by defenders of this law, the introduction of cash compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders, the increase of the lowest pension, the reduction of the age limit for retirement, the right to a family pension for spouses or non-marriage partners, the right to housing care, the provision of work for Croatian defenders with pension, protected rights acquired. This ministry headed by the true hero of the Homeland War Mr. Tom Bear will. A man who has undergone all major operations in the Homeland War knows how to make the Croatian defender special rather than privileged as he insinuates himself here. Mr. Medved knows that the Croatian defender doesn't ask for anything but wants the Homeland to love him as he loves the Homeland. Unfortunately, many did not welcome freedom, and because of them who gave their lives for a free Croatian state, we need to do everything possible for the defenders to exercise all their rights that belong to them by law, so that those whom they do not have rest in God’s peace. Of course the state budget provided funds for...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54013	Thank you. We have two replicas of the respected representative Boric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54014	Thank you very much. As a Croatian defender, you are one of the commanders, I think of the war forces on Velebit. You clearly know all about Croatian defenders, we don't have to interpret that much. The question here is whether we recognize this man today in 2021 as a man who has a problem, who couldn't prove at some time and who wants to resolve his status in a way that respects the laws that we make. Have we noticed in the process that something has happened over the past few years, and if we want to make it right now in a way to say that, we support all of this, Croatian defenders are you and they are the foundation of our country, they are the ones who created the state but we will vote against it because we have another opinion again. Maybe they abused something. Do we have those in our area who really see that health care really can't work anymore, and now the problem is to prove whether it's just a health care unit or whether it's connected to the Homeland War? That's the basic problem. Do we see these people as the true value of this people, i.e. And these countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54015	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54016	Your Honor, counsel, that, as I said in the entrance to the Homeland War, you didn't need an invitation. There went people who felt the Croatian homeland with their heart and soul. But after 30 years, clearly we get some answers from those, so I would say that they felt neither the problems of the war nor the problems within the family, but they actually enjoyed all the benefits of the free state. We really must do everything and thank the Croatian defenders, especially the Croatian wartime disabled, who gave part of themselves so that we, our children, can live in the free country of Croatia, so that we can build it and make it better for all of us. We must not forget to say thank you to the Croatian defenders for what they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54017	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54018	Dear fellow Member Simičević, I agree with you that we must not allow, as you yourself said in your presentation, that the members of Munich battle, let alone the enemy soldiers, to gain greater rights than the Croatian defenders. And I think this is a good bill with its amendments and additions. However, I fear that we will also allow the ruling majority with the next Law on the Victims of the Homeland War to exploit certain rights that they do not belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54019	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54020	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, I think the ministry headed by Minister Medved who has indeed participated in all the important operations of the Homeland War, that he feels what the Croatian defender gave for the Croatian state and how the problems of the Croatian defender can be solved. You mentioned the civilian casualties of the Homeland War. I am sure, and I am sure that most of them here in this Croatian Assembly will not raise their hands for that law that gives the right to anyone, the Serb aggressor, any helper or members of their families. But what the law really says is that medical records issued on occupied territory or on the territory of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro will not be taken into account that the right of civil war victims could be realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54021	The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54022	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's before I say anything about the amendments and additions to this law I'm going to say one thought that I think a good part of the Croatian public will share with me in the same way. I think the work of the Croatian Parliament has led to the theatre of absurdity. We practically have an opinion, i.e. the public already has an opinion on this law without us having conducted the debate. The loudest among us are not here, they are not there, they are not sitting, they are not participating in the debates. So why would they sit here when they said their opinions on Monday or Tuesday or a month ago. Why would we cross the spear here with arguments, facts and in the most natural way how the Croatian Parliament should represent said what they think. I think it creates one wrong picture in the Croatian public space and I don't think that's good. Then what's this for? Why are we here from this morning of half past ten and we'll be here today, until one o'clock in the night. It doesn't make sense, because what I'm about to say doesn't interest anyone and maybe my colleagues who will come after me. No one, because it's all already somewhere else told us. So let me say a few words about this. We Croats are weird. When something's slow, we complain it's slow. When something doesn't change, then we complain why it doesn't change. There's no better school example than this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We passed the law, we followed the implementation, and we saw that we had problems, that the processes lasted long, that the people waiting for us to realize this, that the people waiting for us to realize this status died. And what's going on? Minister Medved, his ministry, the government of the Republic of Croatia wants to speed it up, wants it more, stronger and better, so is it not natural, is it not patriotic, is it not Croatian, I think. And it brings us here a bill of law and says here we are offering something that we have seen practically implement the law in 3 years to significantly slow down the processes and bring essentially 2 essential provisions concerning the acquisition of the status of a Croatian military disabled and their housing. Well, I don't think it can be better, I don't think it can be fairer than that. But there are a variety of opinions here, and then there's ideologically and every other argument that has nothing to do with what we're talking about. So I want to say out loud and clear from this place, it was mentioned here on 106th, 107th, of course, that, the month of June is the month in which most of the National Guard's brigades were founded in 1991. And I go through these protocols, I'm among these people, and I listen to what they say, that's what they say, what the defenders say about the amendments and the additions to this law. They greet him, greet him and say it's good, it's supposed to be done before. But moaning for spilled milk is something that shouldn't be a practice. So, I want to give full support of course to both the Minister and the Ministry on what we brought here before us, but I'm saying I'm worried exactly that in an hour we're going to discuss the civilian victims of the Homeland War. So I don't know if it makes any sense when everyone's already said something about it, and they're not here right now and they've brought out hundreds of incorrect data that will never happen that scares the Croatian people. Why are we scaring the Croatian people? Isn't he already scared enough with 100 things happening in Croatia? But no, he should still be feared, so that is our people, we are his envoys in the Croatian Parliament. We are not in charge of fearing him, but of encouraging him, to encourage him. Let's say we're the ones who will defend his interests. And it's wrong and it needs to be changed. Which is good, it's good that Mr. Bear or Mrs. Nadj brought it, if it's good and if it's good for the ones we're bringing it in, then let's not have a debate that doesn't make sense. So here again I would like to commend these amendments and the additions to the Law on Croatian Defence and give full support primarily to the implementation of this law, which I think is absolutely the most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54023	We've got three replicas on your exhibit. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54024	Dear Mr. Ivanovic and you yourself are a participant of the Homeland War and you certainly remember and you know how complex and difficult time it was, how different it was for people to have a difficult destiny. And you're aware that all these problems can't be solved by one pen move, by one law. And that's why all the things that we do 30 years after the start of the Homeland War are discussing about Croatian defenders about the Homeland War are not at all wrong at all, but I'm happy to talk about it after 30 years and God forbid someone in this higher house discusses 50 years and 100 years of Croatian state. That's the point and that's the goal. So I don't see anything wrong with this, but we need to be kind of united, all of us, and always finding new solutions, to solve what we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54025	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54026	Thank you very much. So I think in this replica you basically answered and what you could do again. Of course, everything that has proved not to be effective enough, that it is not fast enough, so of course there is a Croatian Parliament to change, and we are the ones who need to evaluate, evaluate That's how it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54027	He will now speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54028	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, so here's something I want to say about this draft final proposal for the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their families. I think that this debate is going in the right direction after all and that, regardless of our political views, we understand what a Croatian defender is and that there should be no doubt between us because we see that from other clubs it is clear that we understand that the right is not a privilege, especially the right of a Croatian military disabled and that there is not much debate. There were only possibilities that could be realized or not realized. There is to my satisfaction the government and the minister who understands this population, came from that population, were warlords, knew what the Croatian defender is, and have no doubt whether it is abuse of the rights or those privileges that are spoken of or the true need of a man to resolve his status. Each of us will surely find someone in our area who has failed to resolve that status. And we solved this in 2017 we made it possible to do it again as a Croatian defender, but also as a Croatian wartime military invalid. Every local leader knows how difficult it is to take care of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid and that it requires great resources and that there are sometimes feelings that then appear in that population, why he, why not me, but here we are talking about a law that should be equal to all of us. I also understand these people as a Croatian defender, but also as a man who lives with them and understands their problems. I have a friend who couldn't know he was going to get sick, but it happened really at a time when he couldn't legally exercise his right to be a wartime military invalid anymore. And I see how much trouble it is and how long this process takes, here are a few years, a neatly filed request cannot be resolved at last. And that's what the ministry noticed and wants to solve this long-term process for 60 days, as soon as it's been too long. Even though we've been with them since the beginning, then we'll understand them as the people who created this country and who put the hardest time of creation and the state itself on their backs, and I have no doubts there, never their right to me was a privilege, ever. Are we going to realize that now through this debate or the next one in the next law, and I know people like that in my own environment, and we need to understand them. These attempts, which the ministry reacts to, are targeted and sometimes falsely hard, so the ministry repairs and says that it's not for some of its reasons, which doesn't mean that we can't understand each other, but let's be honest whether we've done everything we can to tell that population here, gentlemen, you're the most responsible, we've given you everything we can as a state, obviously we haven't yet. And that's why this law, and that's why I support it because people want to resolve their status. We've got them working together, we've heard how many there are. They have their own businesses, their trades, their jobs, their contributions. We have them in different ways that are employed differently in municipal societies, in companies, etc., working, creating for themselves and their family. And unfortunately, we have people who have failed and whose illness has made it very difficult for them to cope in this life. And we're here to help them both at local and state level. And then there's no more discussion about whether we gave it to someone the privilege, whether they got it because they cheated or didn't deserve it, that's the difference. I think we should all be here for something like this. That's why I came forward twice asking if we're really helping if we're voting against this law? I don't think we're helping, I think we're helping if we're voting for this law and it's still going to speed up the process as the ministry predicted, so then we can ask them next year how many of the unresolved problems you've solved. Well, she can tell the Minister you did something wrong, so you did it all the way. So when we started this story, let's remember in 2017 there were stories of these tens and tens of thousands that would gain the status of defender or disabled. What are those numbers? We heard it today. If those are tens of thousands, they're not. So let's help people who need to resolve their living status and that they can live normally in the country they've created. It's.../incomprehensible/... the message I want to send and I will vote for this law because I believe it contributes to that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54029	We have a replica of the respected representative Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54030	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representative here now when you spoke came to me in memory when we listened from the besieged Vukovar man with great love of Mr Glavasevic as he spoke of the sufferings, sufferings of the Croatian people and now 30 years later, nothing really happened or the next picture you mentioned earlier the Velebit man was 22 years old and he was 22 years old, God give him a long life, lives without both extremities, and now someone here in the Croatian Assembly says that this man has privileges. I can't, I can't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54031	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54032	I think we managed to resolve this privilege today. That this debate shows that we have all realized that this privilege is not and that this is the right that I hope will be achieved through this law before it was so far, and that is our fundamental task here as parliamentary representatives to contribute because we can. A lot of people might help, but they don't have a way. And what I was going to say was these garages that concern the assigned apartments, i.e. Living care is the same story to be solved. You got the apartment, you got the garage space that's state-owned, you paid the rent. Let's settle this relationship because I think those people deserve it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54033	The Honorable Agent Ante Deur will speak next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54034	Dear Vice President, the Honorable State Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are at the end of this debate on the Law on Croatian Defence to supplement the law since 2017. Today we've heard a lot of things, a lot of information but a lot of different interpretations about something that unfortunately has been going on in our country for a long time, perhaps the last 20 years. Perhaps a sentence which, as a human being, as a Croatian defender touched me deeply, as we do now, will come from another government, and I deeply believe, I am convinced that the Croatian people are matured and that it will not happen to us in 2000 when there was a flood of the Homeland War, when persecutions, closures took place, when Croatian defenders were persecuted, when the Homeland War was taken to The Hague, and with the Homeland War and the modern Croatian state, the one we all think is created in the foundations of Croatian blood, the Croatian man in whom the first Croatian president had the highest confidence, and that is the Croatian man. In this assembly, everyone has been chosen from their own population but from the Croatian people. We believe that, all together, that the Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state, we believe especially on that day when Croatian generals and the Homeland War were released. I think Croatia started breathing full of lungs. Today, we wonder why they often supplement the Law on Croatian Defence. Well, I'm also sad as a man I believe that all together that it was better, that the law remained somewhere that was written in '96, '97. If there had been some kind of supplementation with the time we live in, it would have been ideal. Unfortunately, we know everything that's been going on. Unfortunately, the actors who did it today and in the assembly and we know it. We know that at one point, the Law on Croatian Defences and only the Ministry was so scattered that it thought maybe the building would take away somewhere else, that the separation of Croatian defenders' pensions, that supplies were moved into the social system in the ugliest way. Many things have happened that the Croatian government, headed by the ministry with Minister Medved, could still be talking about today, is indeed working to bring the law together. Why today, someone said it wouldn't be constitutional law, so we're all here in the assembly together, we all bring and watch together, let's not be activists, we have national values that we're all here together no matter what party we come from. These are the values on which this country rests, and we do not question the privileges, the various situations which are not, which are even ugly to hear about a stranger, not for a Croatian man, for a Croatian mother, for these mothers who are here today in the Croatian assembly who are victims of the Homeland War civilians where they suffered the same. Where our mothers are still looking for our missing Croatian defenders and civilians. Let us recognize this law and commend this government and this ministry no matter what someone has done wrong. It's a responsibility, we're all human, forgiveness is given for everything that's been done. The people who were in The Hague forgave everything, we forgave as a Croatian people. This unity has been adorning for us and we have created a Croatian state. Let's not let people look at us here in separation in what are the greatest values, which we will agree on then, where this is our community, where it is our tomorrow for these young people who come to value that generation that God has given the privilege of being a participant, power, the foundation of a modern Croatian state. Here I call upon you to support this law and to be truly in the community and less in the activism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54035	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54036	Dear colleague Deur, when you mentioned in 2000, somehow, the events of that time kind of rang in my ears that song on May 30th is our day. From that moment on, it all started. The government that's going to change something that's come to life in the people, and it's been heartbroken and singing, changing the day, the holiday of June 25th that's never been brought to life, and all this stuff that we're building today and this whole defense story and all this stuff we're saying is stretching and correcting some mistakes from that time. So '95, '97. The peaceful integration after that, the attempt to excavate everything, the transcripts in The Hague, the trial of the generals, the secret testimony, is all in some way the consequences of exactly the kind of debate we have today, so it's good that you remembered it. And you need to know in the context of what time and what intention it was to change that 30th of May to 25. .../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54037	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54038	Here's a thank you, Your Honor, I'm sure there's a lot of it, and it would take a lot of time to list, but surely we all together as Christians, as people, we must forgive because it is the power of the Croatian people. A lot has been changed, so you know Bleiburg that, that the president of the state was there a year before HDZ won that she gave patronage over Bleiburg that these 30th May dates by which President Tudjman's recognizability is what he did, but here we won everything because we are strong and I believe that this victory and that the Croatian people is in their faith, in their power to move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54039	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54040	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Deur, you know that I have an institutional memory and the first Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers since 1994, so 27 years have passed. In those 27 years, HDZ has mostly been in power in the central state. So he could propose the laws he wanted, he had a majority. It turns out that only the SDP is guilty because Croatian defenders could not exercise their rights. Turns out he's the only SDP to blame. Sleep on the ashes and say the law of 2017 was not enforceable before, we should have changed it earlier and everything would be fine, but not now re-imposed to the SDP government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54041	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54042	Thank you, dear MPs, I'm sure you remember and I believe because thank God you were the creator of many of these things that I mentioned at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, but here you said it yourself, so there's no need, we don't need to appoint you. The HDZ was coming and I said at the beginning of my address, the '97 law. It's been a very good year. In 2000, Minister Pancic was then the flood of all things made a new law, such as it was done to ensure that the government's departure would have to go back to certain changes, adoptions, etc. By coming back to SDP again, the first thing that was done was a blow to the Homeland War, i.e. Croatian defenders, again afterwards comes the government of Oreskovic and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, with the arrival of Minister Medveda again, on what we are talking about today in addition, in turn the quality of life we should have done a long time ago... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54043	Thank you, Comrade Deur, thank you. The Honorable representative of Ante Pracachin will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54044	I have an interesting message, and I'm looking for her, otherwise I've never been this angry and nervous out, thank you, Mr. President, angry and nervous about the Assembly pay phone. I'm angry with what you're doing, and I'm angry with these wild injuries to the Rules of Procedure and these friendly replicas. Obviously, there's something wrong with the Rules of Procedure, it needs to be done in order to be able to work better, and I've lost so much time that I have to find this message. Actually, I can't find her. I'm glad Mr. Secretary showed up. I have a message from Dark Peranovic Kundre, who is 14.7.92. For years, he participated in a team of HOSs that pulled out your dead comrades who were ambushed in the city of Dubrovnik, unfortunately tragically injured. They tried to extract the most elite members of the Croatian army, however, it succeeded in both the Hos and the Hos, but what is significant is why I mention it. Because he believes that out of the four commanders of that company, Lovac 2 died, that Stanko Primorac and those still alive were wounded three times, that 30 members of that unit died, mostly one incredible war route, but it is interesting that neither Stanko Primorac Cana nor Darko Peranovic have solved everything along the warpath. We Hos's are actually the biggest victim of this whole thing, of this mess and of this circus, of nowhere so many unresolved problems, and nowhere so many fakes as among the Hos's. I contacted you, Mr. Minister, before I entered this assembly with a desire to talk, to try to put a Hos in the ministry. When he came out, there was a self-invited Djapic, who was never the chief of staff. First HDZ gave him HSP as a party, then he gave him Hos to manipulate Hos. Djapic invented some acts and some officials I think he has a colonel who the regiments have never seen in his life. So until we solve this problem and the Hos case the way we have to solve it, and I brought here something that I've been holding for 27, eight, nine years in the archives, I've never shown it for pride. That is my goal, there is my appointment, there is the appointment of a member of the joint command on one side of the Croatian component, and on the other of the Bosniak Muslim in Central Bosnia, etc., I suffer attacks by Djapic and what kind of Djapæcæ, and false general, and made up of this and made-up it would never bring this up that my Hoss's are not looking for because there are people I've fought in the war who are very hurt because of the fact, because of the fact that they call me that. So all of this you have done will fall to the introduction if it is not fairly valuable and solves the problem of HOS in the Croatian state. I even avoid mentioning the paramilitary, by some logic we are, but only by some logic, and otherwise by the way we've done our tasks, the way we've worked with you, Mr. Minister, we're not any paramilitary, all of what we've been asked to do. So please take a good look at what this is all about so we can finally solve the Hos problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54045	Next, we have an individual debate, we don't, we have club representatives now, and finally, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, we're going to have a respected representative, Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54046	Thank you. So, when today, and before, we have expressed our view about how a system of social transfers should be arranged against one of the most endangered populations in Croatia, which is the defence population, then we have always managed each other, and we have managed today that this is a system that should be transparent as first and should be equal to all and should be just. And just, when we say just and economically just. And now I'm going to give you the reasons why this law isn't. First of all, when we say that these amendments to the law open up a space for privileges, we say it not because it prescribes rights, but because these rights are bound by arbitral treatment, by arbitral treatment. So let me give you an example. You have an example of Article 15 that speaks not of material rights but of who is considered a participant of the Homeland War. So far, it has been said by the numberus Klaus that exactly who could be considered who was working in some other activities, so they were members of the National Protection Squad, medical staff, war rapporteurs, members of the fire departments, etc., now, an article is being introduced that says so. The term of that article, which states, other persons, namely any other person who does not have recognised the status of Croatian defender and who, when performing military or other duties, has contributed to the defence of sovereignty by the competent authorities or legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia or by the majority of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia or the units of local self-government or county or the City of Zagreb and the establishment of independence of the Republic of Croatia. And now you tell me that this article, this item does not open up the room of arbitration. Who decides whether he contributed or not, which simple entities we left wide here to say that by their order there was, so any municipality or city unit of local, regional self-government, etc., any legal person owned by the public. So we're talking about arbitration and arbitration necessarily that leads to privileges because what I can accomplish one can't achieve another, and now I'm going to tell you more examples. Today, we have 3,000 defenders who make less than 3,000 kuna pensions under this law. So, 3,000 of them make less than 3,000 kunas, we can say that they live below the poverty line. At the same time, we have 16.621, which as an average pension under the Law on Defences, so there are both age and disability and family, so the average of which gets 9.418 kuna per month. And now you're telling me that it's okay, that people who actually participated in the same way, many of whom were also killed, we have differences in pensions from 2,600 to 10,000 kuna. I don't think that's right. What's even more problematic about this law is that the law doesn't take into account exactly when it defines certain additional rights. So, it doesn't say we're expanding the circle, we're expanding the circle of the homeowners' rights, but it doesn't tie that up with property censorship because we would immediately agree and we would immediately sign to exercise the right to housing defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War, and children whose parents died in the Homeland War who don't have an apartment or a house, but we can't sign that they can get those who already, regardless of the property censorship, no matter what their property is, no matter how much their property is when we have thousands of other children in this country who don't have a settled housing issue at the same time. So we can't make that distinction between citizens, we can't categorize them that way, and we can't allow it to be arbitrarily decided. The medical board instead of the Office of Arts It's an example of arbitration, it's an example of arbitration. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54047	Thank you very much. Two colleagues have done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Deur what, what's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54048	The 238th Honorable Vice President, the esteemed representative is on the privileges of safety, here I am...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54049	Comrade Deur, you already have one reminder, based on Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54050	I'd like this respected representative to look at all NATO veterans, you'll see how they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54051	Dear Representative Deur, in Article 240, I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 232, did not stick to the subject, now whether consciously or unconsciously, but she...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54053	How come she didn't stick to the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54054	She doesn't know what she's talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54055	Based on Article 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54056	As a Christian I'll tell her, let's forgive her because she really doesn't know what she's saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54057	On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. Dear Representative Željko Sačić on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives final. Here you go. He's gone, he's losing his word, so he'll speak on behalf of the Most final, the Most Representative Club of the Most Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54058	Thank you very much. Here I would only say on behalf of the club once again that after 30 years of the start of the Homeland War that the Homeland War for us in MOST is the basis of the modern Croatian state, that Croatian defenders, those who have created a country in the Liberation Fair Homeland War against the meaning of the Serbian occupier, fascist intentions with the fact that they themselves and Croatian defenders against Serbian Fascism and antifascists if we point out, I see that often attacking them from some side means that mainly those who advocate antifascism, because in the Homeland War, the Croatian people were on the side of antifascism against Slobodan Milosevic, so that Croatian defenders on this issue were in Hos, either di, that they were in which units they defended the free Republic of Serbia against the large-sergic fascism of the gentlemen who put some of Croatian defenders or mosaics where they don't belong. And the foundation of democracy is this parliament and this parliament is, all those who are in this House are the Croatian defenders. And Croatia was created in the Homeland War the way we have free, democratic with all those peas we have in politics Croatian defenders are the true creators of this Croatia and the truth about the Croatian soldier stories in schools, kindergartens, the truth about the heroic defence war is the most important thing. And to throw only into dice, to put them in the cubes of some privilege of this one, it's not good first of all to those people and that's a lie. The only truth is that the Croatian defender, the Croatian soldier and the foundation of the Croatian state. And when I talk about a Croatian soldier, then I'm talking about both a police officer and a Croatian army and an HVO, and I'm talking about the Croatian Defence Forces. And the foundations of the modern state are meaning Croatian defenders. That's what I meant to say, I have a duty to say to my comrades, to you who are in the assembly of Croatian defenders from the left, from the right, from the center, if we were together in the Homeland War, we are the only thing left to call for unity. And all this that's been happening in society that's been brought into this situation by workers, from nepotism, from corruption, you can tell me that it's not the Croatian defenders' fault. And with Croatian defenders we can no one from the left, right, center politicize. And we can't and don't have the right one year to talk about Croatian defenders or certain laws that a good law is an example that follows the Civil Victims Act, protested, and now after 5 years it says it's the best we can do. Yeah, and they deserve civilian casualties that follow the law, their law, but they don't deserve Chetniks. And it offends Croatian defenders, that I am the one who gave the first amendment to abolish Stipe Mesic's office. to remove the funds of 600,000 kuna, my first amendment, and to be given for the first time to be in the budget of the state to be allocated to the Association of Victims in the Homeland War. It's the first amendment and today I believe it's in the budget. But we need to separate some things, and we Croatian defenders who have the honour of being in this house cannot object to one political option that has defiled the defenders while this option is political, i.e. I'm not talking about people, but individuals upstairs insulted people by holding their hands on their hearts, and saying that the triba arrest, locate, transfer, process the most prominent defenders who led us in the Homeland War. That message from Seks back then in Mesic, Sanader is disastrous. I'll keep telling her again. Our tribune truth about the Homeland War. The truth that it shows up to the public, only the truth about the Croatian soldier and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54059	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Josip Djakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, as you have heard, the HDZ Club will support these amendments and additions to the laws that, through this time through observations and proposals in a partnership relationship with defense associations, with all defenders who have experienced inability to obtain their rights, were necessary to amend these legal provisions as well as to abolish previous skills. We received a clear message from the defenders during the past time regarding these commissions which in.../incomprehensible/... decided on their status. We received clear messages with time, with persons, and with everything that was going on. It is clear to all that they cannot be treated and valued equally by those who are born disabled, and those who are born with the consequences of health problems, as well as those who have suffered in their work, as those in traffic and traffic accidents. War wounds are something else, war wounds require experts to deal with these wounds when they were rescheduled on the ground or in hospitals. War wounds are also the result of the disease, and today's law and artisans are the most related to post-stressive syndrome among our defenders, and there are special experts who can evaluate, but there are undeniable documentation that arises, which is treatment in hospitals, continuity of treatment and all that is easily verifiable. But when it happens to such experts, experts don't respect their hospital colleagues, they don't respect hundreds of kilos of medicines spent or injected, then there's already a problem. I'm telling the truth about the things that have been happening and that have been described by these same comrades and friends of ours. For this reason, today this law must be amended to bring further security and peace. And the devastation of the law in recent times between Pancic and Matic in times of crisis when it happened that something had to be put into the context of the possibility of a financial budget we will clearly tell what was going on. Thousands of disreputed families of the dead, thousands of dissuaded officers who were in the Homeland War, thousands of dissuaded defenders at that time were our troubles and sorrows. They are not privileged, they are not privileged, it is the right that the Croatian people of the Croatian Parliament and the Government gave to those persons but those who called them so and today, wandering through the law, watch to belittled and put the burden of privilege on their backs again to be ashamed of themselves. It is the left block, whether it was called the left SDP or left-green, speaks clearly about it today and puts the privileges first of all in order to re-insult Croatian defenders and their dignity, wanting to re-negotiate the rights they have given them from the very beginning through the care of Croatian defenders who were the Ministry of Defence and later through the Croatian Defence Ministry until the moment they separated their pensions into those who had been acquired through the work and those who had won through the war. These were the horrors they prepared to harm Croatian defenders. Today, Croatian defenders in the largest or I would tell the 98% majority trust their ministry, trust the minister and his services, stick to the minister's wish for the best, and help is daily, complete and with this change of law they expect a lot. We believe that it will be good for all those who have waited a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54061	Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54062	Here's my thanks to the chairman. Since I haven't had more chance to replicate some things here said, here I am here in the final presentation to say a few thesiss that often go through debates here so let's say those who criticise certain things, here when we criticise the Law on Defence doesn't mean we're criticizing the defenders, it doesn't mean we're questioning their merits for our freedom, the state, for everything we enjoy today in the free democratic state. So, when we criticise the Defence Act does not mean that we would abolish all rights of defenders, does not mean that we are against the Homeland War, does not mean that we are against the state of Croatia as we did on one committee the other day when we criticised this national recovery plan we received a puck so that we should love Croatia to understand this national recovery plan. So, when we criticise it, it doesn't mean that we don't love our own country, but it's precisely why we want to propose some things and improve our criticism. If we didn't care what you did, it wouldn't even be critical, okay, great, bad law, good vote for it, let's keep going. But if we think something's wrong, it's our duty to point out something that's wrong, that something changes, and as most people will accept that proposal for a change in order. A colleague here from HDZ spoke about it earlier, he says that no matter who the proposals came from, if there was an opportunity to fix something in the law of 2017, it is normal that these things will be collected whether what is bad and some new amendment will be made, so it is no matter what side the proposals come from if the good ones accept them. Well, I'm sorry that you didn't accept a proposal two months ago that was very good about amending the Penal Code when you all said here it was an excellent proposal but we're not going to vote here so now the clutch wasn't suggested by the opposition. Here's in that spirit that you're promoting here, I suggest that the next time a good one comes along and on the opposition side here you accept it. So, here I have already said everything in the debate which we think is bad in this proposal, I continue to, in no way has the minister convinced me why it is good that this art is organised in this way, not that actually the Office of Arts is advanced and all of its processes inside. I really agree if it takes so long, that procedure and those processes it's actually scandalous and should be promoted, but here we think that this way now is actually bad. And again, we're going back to this system that we shut down and changed that year, and now we're going back to it again. I can't figure out how it's better now and how it's going to be faster and how we're going to speed up some processes and how we couldn't bring all these experts into this Office of Arts and then drive them there to work faster and better so that those rights of defenders would come true. And here's also, I don't understand the system of housing, and we take care of the housing, or this bill says that the housing will be taken care of by those who already have apartments. What? And I'm sorry, I thought this guy was throwing himself here. But mostly here, I wanted to point out, so when the Defense Act is criticised, we are not against defenders and the exercise of their rights, we can do this, so some things that simply seem and unjust must be pointed out and asked to be improved. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54063	And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54064	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank you for the contribution and constructive debate, and for the proposed Final Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian defenders and members of their families. So, after I remind you, after 2017, when we regulated the most important areas through a single legal framework, which are related to Croatian defenders, the victims of the Homeland War and the Homeland War in application responsibly analyzed the situation, we came to the conclusion that certain technical interventions are necessary to speed up the whole process. And all the time today during this debate, I've been doing it over and over again. A few things that I think are important during the debate have opened up and I want to further clarify them. So, the first of this last residential care, 2011, in 2016, we had more than 11,000 persons of Croatian wartime disabled and families of the dead, missing and dead Croatian defenders of the living without care. By passing the law, we also included volunteers of the Homeland War and volunteers as such as such as a particularly important category in the structure of Croatian defenders. So volunteers have the right to housing, but what we must stress is that, unfortunately, laws are either not being read or being misread. Therefore, the right to housing is achieved by families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime peoples and volunteers of the Homeland War, but of course they are not taken care of and meet all the requirements of the law. Which means that they meet all the conditions and that means that there are no obstacles or that they have no other real estate and I pray that when we discuss this issue, we do not talk in an indefinite way. The second question, I would also like to point out here that there was a speech, I'm sorry, we don't have a representative of Pracčina, I would like to remind you that we first defined in our law in 2017. 3. The status of members of the HOS, therefore Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, is a person who has been organised in defence, independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, along with the National Guard of the Croatian Army of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the police of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Defence Forces, the HOS. Therefore, loud and clear in Article 3. It was also a matter of members of the HVO, in 2017 the first law regulated the right to pensions of HVO members. Prior to that, this right was regulated by the 2006 agreement and under that agreement, the deadline for submission of applications was 30 days and in this respect we opened the deadline for submission of applications for pensions of members of the HVO. Therefore, no component has been neglected and no area, the activities of the Ministry of Croatian Defence have been ignored. I would also like to underline that all the measures that we have laid down by law in 2017 have been implemented and that they are in realisation. This is witnessed by all indicators and figures of the implemented activities of the programme and of the measures. When we talk about a previous expert assessment, it was conducted at 27 medical institutions. It has shown itself with all the efforts that we at the level of the Ministry of Croatian Defence and the Ministry of Health organized with the institutions, it has proved that the measures cannot be established to be sufficiently harmonised. Unfortunately, quite a difference between these institutions. And... All of this, COVID has also come, which has contributed unfortunately to prolonging the implementation of the review programme and delaying the whole process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about art, I will remind you that by 2015, the Croatian Defence Ministry had a council of experts in its composition. And that in 2015, we are forming a single body of art, which is to this extent including the entire population, cannot necessarily realize the need for a step in time or a measure to implement the skills to be in an acceptable period of time. The principles of medical sorcery are the same. They're tied to the waist. The difference is in the bureaucratic process which will be more optimal. The establishment that will be established and teamed will deal with Croatian defenders. He will deal with injuries and injuries to Croatian defenders and diseases as a result of his participation in the Homeland War. It will deal with the coordination and monitoring of the course of service, the time spent in the Homeland War, the combat or non-combating sector, the duties of the person acting and coordinating with his form of disease or injury. Here I especially want to highlight PTSD, all the difficulties we had at the Institute of Arts regarding the recognition of this disease, all the difficulties we have at the Ministry of Croatian Defence with which we have been thoroughly familiar. What is particularly important is the sensibility of the doctor in relation to the Croatian defender. All the time we have tried to work through the work of the Institute of Arts to establish coordination with the main people of the institute of the absence of this sensitivity, the lack of recognition of disease among Croatian defenders and, therefore, with all these arguments that I have stated, I believe it is important that we together support these amendments of the law which will result in full implementation of the measures we have defined in the law of 2017, that through secure financial means, through a good organisation, through the establishment of an institutional approach, we will establish such relations that, regardless of what work the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian defender lives, that this service of the Council, the service of all other measures carried out by the Ministry of Croatian Defence will be available. And I therefore call on you to accept this proposal to amend and supplement the law and thus contribute support to Croatian defenders in a concrete light, through concrete measures and supervision and responsibility for implementation and remains with the Croatian Defence Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54065	Thank you, we have two replicas. Dear representative of the coat of arms, Bujevic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54066	Thank you, sir. Dear Ministers, while this debate lasted, those who watch are our Croatian defenders and one message has arrived for me, so here, I would ask you a question. So the question of what you're just saying about the Institute of Arts is really true and has caused quite some of the things that our defenders haven't sat down well, precisely for that very reason because no one has been sensitized to look at the whole situation. Our defenders of this class are curious whether they will be able to re-apply to the disability or will it now be their solution that has been issued permanently and whether the proceedings will move the items that are in place, will they then be moved under the new law in the commission that you will make? That's a very important answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54067	The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54068	Thank you very much. This is an extremely important issue in the overall process, so we have had practice so far, and that is what our Croatian defenders must know, so the continuity of treatment in terms of diagnosis based on which they go on skills, if they have been assessed that their health skills or have not obtained an adequate percentage of status in order to obtain the status of a Croatian wartime invalid, follows the continuation of the continuity of treatment and after the course of a certain period of time, as it was now, the re-emergence of the expert council, respecting the fact that during the time, my call to Croatian defenders is certainly a continuation of the continuity of treatment, in no way allowing this disease to advance but to stick to the recommendations of specialists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54069	Thank you. Replica of respected MP Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54070	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, on 5 August 2017, the Government in Knin adopted the entire Law on Croatian Defence, you were as Minister on behalf of the Government Proposer. Of course, during the application and analysis of the regulations, certain shortcomings have been observed in practice and the consequences of the removal of these shortcomings, or with the aim and desire to make it easier, easier and easier to achieve almost the same rights, this law is adopted. There has certainly been no representative here who has not pleaded to support the defender, to support the gratitude we need to have for the defenders, but it is also given to read that he will not support this law. So if we have a united view of the rights of the defender, then we should have a unique attitude to make life easier for them, and how do you even interpret it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54071	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54072	Thank you very much, dear representative Murganic. It is true, therefore, that in Knin we symbolically presented the measures laid down in this law, the government accepted them, sent them to the Croatian Parliament, and here we had a very contentious debate. I was talking about the mission back then, about the ambitions we're trying to achieve. We have largely realised where we have detected the difficulty in applying, as the responsible Government we have proposed the changes that we have analysed here today. By bringing these amendments to the amended and updated law, I am convinced that we will create a premise for solving a series of previously accumulated difficulties and problems but what is very important, this is the relationship of all of us to Croatian defenders, this is a relationship where we must all contribute to Croatian defenders in society being evaluated in the way they should be evaluated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54073	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. Now that it's been a long time without a break we'll have a break by 20 and 30. It's 20.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.33 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 in relation to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when discussing this item on a daily basis. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, dear Tomo Medved, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54150	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War answers the need and obligation to resolve still unresolved issues from the Homeland War as well as to satisfy justice for all whose lives are built into the foundations of the sovereign Republic. In order to correct a long-standing inadequate approach towards the civilian victims of the Homeland War, it is necessary to pass a law that will allow their rights to be regulated in one place. Namely, the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War are currently regulated by the 1992 Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, which has since been changed even 12 times without a complete solution. Despite numerous changes, the law still does not cover all civilian victims, so even 25 years after the Homeland War we do not have a proper legal framework. This legislative proposal was first read here in the Croatian Parliament in March and now we have the final bill. The proposed legal solution will allow the status and rights of those civilian victims of the Homeland War to be achieved so far, although in public space it is trying to push through the issue that all civilian victims have already achieved their rights through the applicable law. The law will define who is the civilian victim of the Homeland War and will allow the acquisition of the status of civilian victims and persons injured by the explosion of mine-explosive means or the use of firearms in the period from 17 August 1990 to 13 June 1996 outside war operations but in connection with the circumstances of the Homeland War. The members of the family of the missing civilian victims in the Homeland War will be allowed to exercise rights under this law even before the missing person is declared dead. So far, members of the family of missing civilians have been able to achieve their rights only after making a decision to declare the missing person dead. The deadline for recognition of civil disability status will be opened on the basis of a disease closed in 2003. A record of civilian victims will be established by the Ministry of Croatian Defence, which will only be made possible by the official authorities of the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of new rights will improve the socio-economic position of users. Instead of the provision that was abolished in 2013, a cash compensation for civilian victims will be imposed, a one-time cash aid will be introduced, up to a maximum of 3326 kn, depending on the situation required. Since the construction and establishment of veterinary centres is under way, their use is also foreseen for civilian victims. We estimate up to 2500 new users of the status rights of disabled people and family members. Of course, the law also provides for obstacles and procedures. In order to ensure that the rights of the law bring about only the innocent victims of the Homeland War, it is explicitly prescribed that the status and rights of this law cannot be achieved by the members of the helpers or associates of the enemy military and paramilitary forces involved in the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. In order to determine who can and who cannot achieve the status and rights of this law, all available resources and data of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will be used, and in accordance with the General Procedure Act, all the information on which the official record is kept, will be obtained by official duty, while on the applicant the obligation is to demonstrate the allegations on which the request is based. An important role in obtaining documentation will be played by the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, and I remind you, it is established by the Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War as a public scientific institution, a specialized archive of interest for the Republic of Croatia. The Centre collects, unites, arranges and protects documentation and data generated in the Homeland War and related to the Homeland War. As we worked very well with associations representing the civilian victims of the Homeland War, or with the community of civil victims of the Homeland War, they made it clear at the very beginning of this law that they would never participate in the creation or support a law that would allow the exercise of the rights of those who have committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. And allow me to welcome here on this occasion in the building of the Croatian Assembly of Members of the Association of Civil Victims of the Homeland War led by Mrs Julian Rosandić. On the subject of the importance of the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, the Community organized a Round Table on which there was a sociological and social aspect of understanding, recognition and legitimacy of the experience of the civilian victims of the Homeland War, a legal aspect, in the methodology of the previous results of research on the mortally injured people in the Homeland War. The Round Table also concluded that the adoption of the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, which has been addressed for many years, has been justified and necessary for civilians to suffer from major Serb aggression against the Republic of Serbia. In support of this bill, it has been concluded that the legally regulated process of achieving the status of civilian victims as well as evidence of suffering and the unwarranted and unfounded the thesis that the aggressors will be allowed to achieve the status of a civilian victim from the Homeland War. Associations of victims of the Homeland War stressed the importance of identifying the problem and resolving the issues of all victims of the Homeland War and supported the adoption of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War. Finally, this final bill was drawn up with extensive analysis, based on the principles of justice, social solidarity and accountability and, above all, on the values fought for by Croatian defenders. And while many wonder why we are now passing this Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, it's the civilian victims who are just now wondering why. We know that nothing can make up for the loss of life or body parts, but I believe that this law will correct the injustices against the civilian victims of the Homeland War. In addition to material impact, the law will bring recognition to civilian victims by a society that is crucial to building democratic relations and our own future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54151	Thank you. We have more replicas again, the first respected representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54152	Mr. Minister, I deeply appreciate your contribution to the Homeland War and I truly respect the sacrifice of your family, but perhaps you've heard of Dr. Svetozar Rittiga, a priest who agreed to be minister in the communist government of Croatia in 1946. While he thought he was doing a good thing, the communist government used him as a cover and deceived the local and world public about the existence of religious freedoms in the then Croatia. During his ministry, mass crimes took place and his boss, archbishop Stepinac, was arrested, the process was mounted, and he was convicted and poisoned by innocents. Are you aware that there are times when personal decisions must be made? For we all have a choice to be part of power and with privileges and to work against the justice and interest of our people or to be faithful to justice and to be a martyr or to be a Rittig or to be a Stepinac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54153	The Honorable Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54154	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since the first moment of taking over this honorable duty in the government of the Republic of Croatia, I have consciously taken over and I am still taking full responsibility today. There are moments when we need to recognize the most vulnerable among us, those who have been forgotten, those who have not been recognized by the lack of courage of former officials, and as I made clear in 2016 my mission that we will create a single law on Croatian defenders, that we will make for the first time on persons missing in the Homeland War, this is the moment when I adopt the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War and thus round the normative process in the jurisdiction of this ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54155	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54156	Thank you very much. First, he would welcome representatives of the civilian victims of the Homeland War and, of course, that the tribal was long ago, not yesterday, no, long ago passed the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, and every victim deserves it, it is the obligation of the Croatian state. However, Minister, my key question, I have given the amendment, is there an aggressor register on the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War? And very importantly, I've also given an amendment, me and my club, that they have no right to achieve this person who were the meaning officers of the SAO Krajina on any matter. We must stop this law from those who threw grenades, those who set mines, in any way accomplishing this right that the victims of the Homeland War deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54157	Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Tomo Bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54158	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, in the Croatian public space, the thesis of a distorted view towards the fundamental intention of resolving the issue after so many years of civilian victims of the Homeland War and trying to focus on a question that is not the measure of this law. This law applies to the civilian innocent victims of the Homeland War. With this law, as never before, we have clearly and unequivocally laid down obstacles to who cannot consume the rights of this law, as well as the methodology for the exercise of rights. Therefore, it is an invitation to focus on the content of this law, to read it thoroughly, to stick to basic thesis and metrics and the content of the law and to avoid the traps that the Croatian public directs to an area that this law does not regulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54159	Dear Representative Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54160	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, this is the way I welcome Mrs Rosandic, and I am sure she would not want to pass anyone who has not earned through this law but unfortunately I am not sure about you because of the coalition with the SDSS. You mentioned a documentary-memory center, Prof. Dr. Look, I'm telling you right now because I talked to Nazor in the Parliament, you don't have a list of Eastern Slavonia anyone, no soldiers, no militias except that you've been through a law on wartime military invalids, which is worse than let alone civilians who showed people at the hospital who ended up because of them in Ovcara. You don't have that list, and you know it, and I know it, and I know it, and we talked about it on the board, and don't manipulate civil war victims that the Homeland Movement has nothing or I personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54161	Thank you. We have answers. Wait a minute, wait a minute, the honourable representative Murganic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Adversity Bear: Dear Representative...]] What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54162	The Rules of Procedure in paragraph 238, a colleague who was hardly offended by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, accused him of not being sure whether he was willing to engage or allow those who did not deserve or who did not suffer in the Homeland War to exercise the right of civilian sacrifice, I think it is an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54163	Honorable MPs, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Based on an article. 238, I give you a warning. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, here you are, Tomo Bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54164	Representative Mlinarić, I don't know who you contact or care about. One thing is certain, since 2017 thoroughly, systematically, as we have done and for earlier laws we have done this law. The bodies of the Republic of Croatia possess records of persons participating in and committing aggression against the Republic of Croatia. The organisation in application and the methodology of implementation of the exercise of the right will demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54165	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54166	Dear Ministers, as I publicly commended you for the previous law, amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Defence and their families, continue on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we believe that in this law, despite the improvement of the Article. 5. Compared to the first reading, there is a set of shortcomings that will unfortunately allow those who participated in an open aggression against the Republic of Croatia to get through this law. It is systematic in this whole story that the Serbian National Council has given its consent to such a bill. Why would the Serbian National Council have any interest in the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War? Here, I'd like to ask your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54167	Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54168	Dear Representative Pavliček, who has motivated individual clubs or parliamentary representatives to give or do not give support to certain legal solutions, I do not want to calculate. One thing is certain, the answer is the same as I replied to the representative Bulju and MP Mlinarić. In this law as never before, precise, clear and unequivocally set up obstacles, ways, access and control mechanisms, the law is intended for unique and targeted towards innocent victims of the Homeland War but equally strong, precise and clear obstacles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54169	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54170	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. You said one sentence of "unwarranted thesis" which, unfortunately, and in the previous reading, in the first reading, and today from our fellow advocates of unwarranted thesis, untrue, and especially because some of our representatives, and even from the Homeland Movement, have never seen a memorial in Slavonski Brod, in real life of these mothers, does not mean that they have no emotions, I believe that they have them, but with the emotion that I believe they are, I believe and honorable people, we should still get a little more informed and believe in Croatian institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54171	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54172	Thank you very much. Representative Deur, it is clear that there is a lot of disinformation here in the Croatian public space. Unfortunately, it has often been noted that the law has not been read, to impose distorted thesis with some other purpose, and my call today during this debate is in the direction of focusing on the content of the proposed law, to focus on the metrics, to have the faces of those mothers who lost their children, to have the faces of the people, the man who lost three children, mother and wife in one day, whom we spoke several days ago in Slavonski Brod. Let's refrain from politicizing when we're talking about this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54173	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54174	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said that this law is based on the principles of justice, social solidarity and accountability not only of material rights and not of pre-election time because the first reading has passed when it was pre-election time. It's been 40 degrees, I think it's a pleasant atmosphere. It's still daylight, it's still daylight outside, and it's not under cover of darkness. Explain to us why this law today, and why today is the correcting of all the injustices that have now been done to civilian victims?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54175	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54176	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the methodology and procedure of consulting, consulting, analysis, assessment and dynamics of law-making has directed us to do so today and I will remind myself of the question when many are wondering, so whether it is possible, since the Homeland War, it has been 26 years. Since the beginning of the Serbian aggression against the Republic of Serbia, it has been 30 years. Unfortunately, that's a fact. It's been so many years since many administrations didn't get the strength or didn't want to, no.../incomprehensible/... I can't get into the motives, but today is the moment and my answer is today, we get the strength and so many years after the Homeland War we close this chapter too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54177	Now. Thank you very much. Now we're going to represent clubs. The first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, colleagues and colleagues, the HS War Veterans Committee at its 4th session held on 23 June 2021 discussed the Final Proposal of the Civil Victims Act submitted to the HS by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 June 2021. 91. According to the promoter's representatives, the rights of the victims, the civilian victims of the Homeland War, are currently regulated by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War of '92. A year that's been changed even 12 times. Since, even after 25 years of the end of the Homeland War, there is no adequate legal framework for civilian victims of the Homeland War, the adoption of this Act would end the process of full regulation of the rights of all civilian victims of the Homeland War. According to the current law, the rights are currently granted by 1884 civilian victims of the Homeland War and 145 members of the families of the dead civilians and despite these numerous amendments to the law, many remain not covered, and the rights are not adapted to their needs. The proposal of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War defines the concept of a Civil Victim of the Homeland War so that rights can also be achieved by the victims who could not do so under the applicable law. Previously, it will be determined who are the civilian victims of the Homeland War, so that the law cannot be misused by members, assistants or associates of enemy military and paramilitary formations. The law will cover civilians killed by an explosion of mine-explosive means or by using firearms in the period from 17 August 1990. until June 30, '96. Mr. It will also enable the rights of members of the families of missing civilians in the Homeland War before they declare their family members dead. A deadline will be opened for recognising the status of a civilian disabled from the Homeland War on the basis of a disease, a record of civilian victims will be established, and measures are envisaged to improve the socio-economic position of users. Rights can be achieved by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also by foreign citizens, provided that they had their residence in the Republic of Croatia at the time of their death. The estimated number of new users of status rights under this new law is around 2500. Compared to the text of the bill in the final draft of the law, the deadline for the adoption of implementing rules has been reduced, more precisely the right to cash compensation for civilian victims of the Homeland War, the responsibility of the Croatian Defence Ministry for the exercise of the right to free textbooks for civilian victims of the Homeland War has been prescribed, and the necessary nomotechnical changes have been made. The funds were secured for 2021, 2022 and 2023. In the debate, the Committee members welcomed the adoption of this law, but stressed that it should have been passed much earlier. The fear of the possible exercise of law rights by members of the aggressor military, but at the same time welcomed was embedded, welcomed, embedded, embodied clear and strong protective mechanisms that such a thing might not happen. It has been pointed out that the basic prerequisite for law enforcement is the existence of full records of members and assistants of the aggressor army and civilians in the then occupied area of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, the Committee decided to extend the HS to the adoption of the Civil Victims Act from the Homeland War by a majority of votes, 6 votes for and 3 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54179	... I am now opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Josip Djakic, please. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54180	Thank you very much. Here, I'll move on. In front of us is this Final Proposal of the Civil Victims Act, I would like first of all to welcome the president and members of the Management Board of the Association of Civil Victims of the Republic of Croatia. I can stress that on their initiative in partnership with the Croatian Defence Ministry, in cooperation with the victims' associations who supported the round table of adoption of this law, it was clearly stated that this is necessary and necessary and that this is a return of debt to civilian victims from the Homeland War. This Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War that will help our civilians who have survived the terrible tragedies, today we also open wounds, memories of the horrors of war that we cannot see today. Some will never see them again. Yeah, it's been 30 years since the start of the Homeland War. So many years of waiting for the civilian victims of the Homeland War for the recognition of their victim who was not adequately valued and who had no right to belong to them. This government wants to make it right. Minister Bear had hearing and empathy for the tragedy of civilian victims. Faced with the obstruction of individuals, he had the courage to fulfill his promise. Namely, as we have already heard from the promoter of the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War are currently regulated by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War of '92. a year that has been changed even 12 times so far. With this law, we want to provide legal certainty to civilian victims, as we have also provided to Croatian defenders. It's our debt to innocent victims, to innocent wounded and murdered children. And I'm sorry that some MPs are distorting the interpretation of this law and politicizing it in the media. Here in the first reading was pre-election time. Now they say it's plus 40. Now they say that in a dark age it's like someone turned off the light, and it's still daylight outside. I mean, I don't know what this is about. We don't even know HDZ agents what they're actually political statements. It's all said in past readings. We did not notice that someone was involved in a public debate when it was called, we did not see that there were then important remarks on the adoption of this law or proposals that would be adequately evaluated. We haven't noticed that the adopted SDS or any other proposals of those who are possibly in cahoots with those who would like to do so. In that public debate of 800 and some remarks as far as I could read, I didn't quite notice that they were respected as some want to present here anyone... so that no documents, nor Mrs... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or anyone else who shows up there, I didn't notice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill worked in collaboration with what I said before the Committee on War Veterans with the victims and associations with extensive analysis and has been done for a long time, as the minister pointed out since 2017, but it took a lot of talks with everyone who cared about making the law justly and responsibly. It also went through public consultation as I pointed out that everyone could bring and make their remarks and suggestions to the law, but now here's trying to get in the media, politically trying to score on real civilian innocent victims. First of all, we want to say as I pointed out in my first reading and, if necessary, I will repeat as long as it takes for this law to be prescribed who cannot exercise all rights as in any previous law, it has been said clearly and that the note is otherwise not defined in any law so far, it says who cannot but who can exercise the rights. So I understand the extent to which such a fear is stated here, and in this law this applies first and foremost to the members of the aide, the associates of the enemy military and paramilitary forces. I don't know if you think that really and Minister Bear and I and his associates would stand in front of anyone's face if it was incorporated into this law. Do you think we are such a bunch of creeps and losers that we would now represent this law that would allow aggressor soldiers, their helpers, their rebels and their servants or their associates to exercise their rights? We're not you and we'll never be. The security mechanisms installed, the competent authorities through the administrative procedure in the first and second stages will implement a complete procedure, implementing regulations, i.e. rules in more detailed and more precise manner of exercise of rights and all necessary documentation. In law preparation, they co-operated with the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Centre, which collects all data from the Homeland War and is of great support. And I am personally aware and know how many materials we have handed over from Eastern Slavonia, from other commands and headquarters that have been captured and records owned by the Memorial-documentation centre as well as our services are certainly sufficient to determine who was in the occupied area. I am not afraid that they will abuse this law and that the Croatian Defence Ministry will in any way enable them to acquire any rights. I would point out that Article 75 of this Law accurately states which documents will determine the facts. That the person died, died or disappeared, and under what circumstances. It is provided for the adoption of a regulation which will further develop the way civil persons with disabilities from the Homeland War are rights and status, and in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law and in the procedure prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. So the status and rights of this law will be determined through an administrative procedure based on documentation issued exclusively by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and on the applicant there is an obligation to demonstrate the reasons on which the request is based. For this purpose, only valid data from the official records of the Republic of Croatia will be used when determining the status and rights. Under the current law, the rights currently have been exercised by 1884 civilian victims, 145 members of the families of the dead civilians. And despite these numerous amendments to the law, many still do not cover, and rights are not tailored to their needs. The proposal for the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War defines the concept of a Civil Victim from the Homeland War so that rights can also be achieved by the victims who could not do so under the current Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. In practice, it has been shown that there are certain categories of victims for which all the facts are in favour of being a civilian victim of the Homeland War, but they do not meet the formal conditions in order to achieve that status under the applicable law. The law will include civilian casualties due to the explosion of mine-explosive assets as well as the use of firearms between 17 August 1990 and 30 June '96. enables the exercise of the rights of members of the families of missing civilians in the Homeland War and before declaring their family members dead. A deadline will be opened for recognising the status of a civilian disabled from the Homeland War on the basis of a disease, a record of civilian victims will be established by the Croatian Defence Ministry and measures will be envisaged to improve the socio-economic position of users. Rights can be exercised by citizens of the Republic of Croatia and also by foreign citizens, provided that they had their residence in the Republic of Croatia at the time of their death. The estimated number of new users is two and a half thousand. The law provides for a higher amount of personal disability of an orthopaedic supplement, a care allowance and assistance for another person and a family disability on the basis of an increase in the base. It will increase the base that has been 100% of the budget base since 2001. I'd like to say and inform you it's June 8, '91. the year held a round table on the civilian victims of the Association of Croatian Civil Victims from the Homeland War called why the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, which once again wanted to point out the necessity and importance of adopting this unique normative act. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for this law, which our government has shown its readiness and will to address the painful unresolved issues of civilian victims and that will improve the position of civilian victims because it is necessary and it is fair to pass a single law that will regulate the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War in one place. Unfortunately, injustice cannot be corrected, but pain can be tempered and dignity restored to those who deserve it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I urge you to reconsider this law regarding civilian victims and to resolutely support this law so that those people who are guilty of nothing and their families will be killed in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54181	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the time will be shared by respected representatives Sačić and Pavliček. First respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54182	Thank you, Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers and Secretaries, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the family of civilian victims of the Homeland War, the Croatian public. So we now have before us the final proposal of the Civil Victims Act. Each of us has a very clear view that every innocent victim should be compensated to the extent to which this Croatian society can give it, but also we, many of us, as I see it in the opposition, also have a clear view and demand that no possibility be allowed in any event for enemies of the Croatian state, the aggressors and those who did not want to achieve any benefits on the burden of the Croatian budget. And that's the point of the story, those are the demands that motivated us to deliver certain remarks to you in our first reading and now to deliver certain amendments. I must note that between the first reading of the final proposal and now the final proposal there have been some changes. In one important part of Article 5, you have changed and removed to a large extent my doubts about potential users who were not adequately prevented by that time for the possible use of these provisions to their advantage, since it is clear in Articles 1 and 1 you have later defined this is defined in Article 5 that these rights cannot be realised, enemies armed, members of military paramilitary formations, members of their families. However, there remained a wide range of space for the use of these rights to people who were logistically supportive, participated in the civil government, so-called. The SAO landscape, which means they were the enemies of this society, this country and the next strictly members of the proposed law. They could've gotten through it. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Who I've read these days you've closed it. I'm glad you've closed that story, and now he's saying in his own words, as well as the people who have helped the enemy, or these paramilitary formations, in any other way. However, space remains. We are saying that we continue to oppose that these rights are consumed by foreigners, and that they can only consume citizens of the Republic of Croatia with foreign citizenship. So, not strangers. And that's how you feel under the existing Civil Military Victims Act, which is now a valid stranger, they don't have the right to consume. We also cannot agree that Article 9 allows one possibility for the civilian victims of the Homeland War to be all persons who were killed by mine-explosive means, firearms during that period from the 1990s to the 1990s, although they are not related to the war, but are related to the Homeland War. This is an inadequate provision that allows, which first ignores criminal law, civil law, and allows victims of crimes of war crimes, various serious forms of international law crimes, violations of international law to be carried out in parallel despite the fact that they have already been committed in criminal... the procedure of a certain intention to be again categorized as civilian victims of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We cannot agree to this, they are estimated at 150 to 200 at the moment and they are more or less in fact calmed down in that part of the damage compensation or their damages in the way the law predicted. Therefore, we feel that it is not good to mix up these victims of crime, war crimes, because then we can open a process that has no end. And we also leave the possibility of criticizing that the achievement of this law, these legal obligations that I'm calculating here, are not two and a half thousand new users, but 26,000 new users potentially. 10289 only civilian victims in the free territory of the Republic of Croatia who died, died, suicide committed or in any way ended their lives. Such are 10,000 wounded in Croatia who have the potential to be 20% disabled or 60% sick. You also have 10,000, and in the occupied area so-called You have those who died, died, died, missing 5155, and 2700 wounded who have potential, so when you add all that together, that's 26,000 potential users. And now we need to commit the report annually to the legislator, i.e. to suggest that, once a year, these important issues are discussed in the Assembly and that this record be made available to the general public. I have to close the debate, but I'll be in an individual. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54183	The Honorable Representative Pavliček will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54184	Respected debt is the night. I'm sure there's two more, three more debates. I think that this law is glad to all of us that it is being passed and should have been passed 20 years ago to cover all categories of civilian victims of the Homeland War, because I think we all here in the assembly agree that regardless of whether they belong to the left or right political spectrum, that all those who are disabled have permanent disability, that all those members of the family whose members died as civilians have the right to obtain a certain satisfaction from the Croatian state. And I don't think there's anything controversial about it. In spite of the improvements in the first reading of this article, we at the Club of Croatian Sovereignists are still concerned that, unfortunately, those who openly participated in the armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia will also be able to get through this law. Why? In fact, the simple answer to the question is whether we have a list of soldiers, the military so-called. SAO Krajina. The answer is I'm afraid we don't. Do we have a list of all the members of the militia units that have been operating in the occupied area since '91? Until '97. A year. I'm afraid we don't. Do we have a list of people who were politically active at local and state levels and the state couple who openly advocated the creation of Greater Serbia? I'm afraid we don't. Here's another banal example. You have this picture of soldiers and civilians with a rifle on your shoulder after the fall of Vukovar. Is that civilian anywhere registered as an associate of the enemy army? It's not safe. And this civilian, if he was killed in an attack on the Republic of Croatia, can be seen here as a civilian victim of war and get satisfaction from the Croatian state and that's a fact we can't escape from. And therefore we have given 10 amendments to this law at the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and I hope that you will adopt a part of these amendments to prevent those who openly advocated Greater Serbia from using the benefits of this law in one way or another. Once again, I note that none of us present here would mind that any true civilian, no matter what nationality he was given, would receive the rights that belong to him in accordance with this law. However, there is this concern, and even in Article 73, that only the documentation of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article will be recognised in addition to the documentation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article to determine that the wound or injury is obtained under the circumstances laid down in Article 9 of this Act will also be provided with other evidence prescribed by the Regulation referred to in Article 72 of this Law. So it's going to be a special rule where evidence from the occupied area can obviously be obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54185	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the MOST, and the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54186	All those watching have the opportunity to hear all the arguments of this significant and important law that I think should be called after me, is it by some logic the Civil Victims Act due to great Serb aggression? The cause of the Homeland War is major Serbian aggression. Of course, I'd like to welcome the representative if we are among the Civil Victims' Association here from the Homeland War and to point out once again at the very beginning. My first amendment as a parliamentary representative was to remove from the office of former President of the Republic of Croatia 600,000 kunas and to give that money, reroute to associations that are, associations of victims of the Homeland War. I have a friend, he's 14 and a half years old at the Kukuruzovac in Sinj on a former range where JNA had a shooting range, warehouses were walking outside the fence when he was 14 and a half years old, and he came across a mine that was set outside the fence against all conventions. It is, the man is still alive. So it's a 14-and-a-half-year-old boy. He lost both his legs. That's my big friend. His brother was with me in the Homeland War, the same legend of the Homeland War not to mention names and last names, both his legs lost high above his knee. So maybe one of the major victims of that category as a boy lost his legs on free territory. And we really want to talk about civilian victims with our senses, and we can't rule out any emotion. But the fact is that we need to talk here and about what's bothering this whole thing. Five, six years ago when Mr. Matic was a minister, it was then that those who are now advocates of the same law were just talking about this problem. Here's Mr. Deur and Djakic to confirm that there was a problem with the Civil Victims Act. This also resulted in one of the main conditions being the same time as a protest on Sava Street. I think it's reasonable to ask a key question here. And in Article 5, my colleague Sacic mentioned this, that it should mean defining that we have a register of large-serb aggressors and all those who were in the public services in the SAO province and nothing of this injury, this is your intention that we ministers do not destroy. So we're not saying now what the Homeland War Documentary Center has to do with respect for their work, not even the lists of something we have or don't have. It's simply that we have a register that I think is possible if we have and we know the units that participated here. Whether it'll ever be ideal probably won't. A colleague, Pavliček, mentioned certain civilians holding guns and they were probably not led, I don't think they were registered in the aggressor units. But we must also note here that the key damage has been done here by the Republic of Serbia and that we must charge all that damage. It's our duty to both these civilians and those who were killed as civilians in occupied territory. Kids are probably killed and nobody's talking about it, these kids, the innocent victims in that territory. We're not talking about them. Because this isn't, the Homeland War is the result of great Serb aggression. That's why it would triangulate these laws and think that in the titles, I've said it once before, and it's a great Serb aggression, that these are the victims, the civilian victims because of the great Serb aggression. And those who threw grenades, put mines, mined, where the victims were entitled not today but 10 years ago, 15, 20 that's unquestionable. But it's also unquestionable that we have to have a register, a list, and we don't have a colleague, Djakic. Well, you've been protesting, you. You organized the protest. One of the reasons was, the very same law where you then resented Minister Fred Matic. That's a fact. And that's why I gave them my club two amendments that are reasonable, that we have a list, that is. the registry of the aggressor. What's changed in these five years? And that we must, of course, solve the problem of civilian victims, so that's what I mean by God and by man, that's the victim. Not a child on occupied territory wrong or an innocent civilian who died in occupied territory then Croatia, then it is reasonable. And the noble intention we have, not the tribune, is to display it as some kind of restriction. And this Article 5, where you mention a colleague of Sacic, has nowhere to form a register. So we must legally say that we must have a registry of aggressors in the Republic, a large-serb aggressor to the Republic and all those supporters who were within the service, public services and institutions, who were opponents of this. And that's nothing, I don't think it's a questionable minister, there's no dispute. And I think that's how they'd solve the problem. I would also point out that all of this, which means the problem we have because of great Serbian aggression would have to do everything, I often mention, I often mentioned that you and you ministers and other colleagues would charge war damage to the great Serb aggressor. That's with the missing people we didn't get the lists. This is Chettleman Wolf. You've got him. At that time, colleague Deur was an adviser to President Colinda where he brought you cadastrian particles from those who had to return so that they could come to live easier, that he gave you a lie by that Chestnik who was hoarding the Serbian people on his Croat neighbours to commit crimes. So we have to think about it on this first condition. So our first condition is missing and the second condition is war damage. It's all because of great Serbian aggression. The country's war is only the result of great Serb aggression. The Croatian people were not an aggressor, but an aggressor of Serbs and Chetniks at the time, the great Serbs. So we're not talking about all the people, of course, who have accepted, because the many Serbs we are trying to mention and other national minorities have given a great deal of pain in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we're talking about. About tens of thousands of people of Serbian nationality who participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in all troops. And these amendments are to be seen and always to mention that they are civilian victims, rather than because of large-serb aggression, are caused by large-scale Serbian aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54187	The next club of representatives will be that of the Green-Left bloc, according to the esteemed representative, Urša Raukar Gamulin, and later respected representative Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54188	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, secretary, respected representatives of the victims of civilian casualties and their families. We welcome this final bill of law and believe that it is a very important step in protecting the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War and of course their families. However, there is still room for improvement in this proposal. In order to harmonise the level of protection of legal security and social rights of the proposed draft law, we believe it is necessary to comply with the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War and with the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. In addition to this legal solution in order to make it possible for all victims of war without discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin or gender or national origin or family origin to have long-awaited compensation and recognition of their victims, we consider it necessary to base the law first on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia instead of the Assembly Declaration of Homeland War which does not constitute the legal basis of our still multinational society. Similarly, we note that the principles of equality and anti-discrimination are incorporated into the foundations of our rule of law and our Constitution. Moreover, by ratification, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to respecting international agreements and, of course, the corresponding protocols in the area of international humanitarian law, which is why we believe that the draft law should apply to all civilian war victims regardless of their ethnic origin or nationality. Since national equality is the constitutional foundation of the Republic of Croatia and that the Republic of Croatia undertakes international documents and protocols under international humanitarian law, and ratified and signed conventions, the rights prescribed by this law should be applicable to all civilian war victims in order not to put certain groups in an unfavourable position or to avoid discrimination based on ethnicity or national origin. We also propose the harmonisation of laws with the highest international standards and definitions of applicable humanitarian law, which are of course the Geneva Convention and the supplementary protocols as well as the Convention on the Protection of Civil People at the Time of War, as well as the Supplemental Protocol one. Such a legal basis, which would be made up of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the applicable international humanitarian and legal conventions, also increases the legitimacy of this law and avoids the basis of the same on a political declaration that does not have comparable legal weight. In addition, since the Republic of Croatia has ratified, among other things, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and other relevant international agreements such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the Treaty on the EU and the other, and thus the principle of anti-discrimination has been contained in all these international instruments of ratification as one of the fundamental principles of Croatian legislation. And at the end of this part of me, I still have to express regret that we are discussing such an important law in the evening and late at night. After 25 years of waiting for this law, I think the Croatian public, and especially the victims and victims of the family war and their families, deserve a better time for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54189	A respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will continue on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54190	Thank you. So we have already supported in our first reading the idea of this law, its purpose of this law and what this law, in terms of fair compensation and aid to civilian war victims, should provide. In this we noted, we came from the next, and this is the first fact that Croatia won the war and that in that victory we must be great and recognise certain rights not only to those who won this victory, but also to those who were victims of that war regardless of their ethnicity if they were civilian victims. In that sense, we also pointed out in our first reading, that certain members of military and police forces who fought and committed certain crimes on our part and that there are certain victims of these crimes. The fact today is no longer a taboo, there are judgments by domestic courts, there is an International Criminal Court, but still this law has not unequivocally recognised the victims of the torture of inhumane and humiliating treatment committed by members who cannot be defined as enemy forces because here we have defined as enemy forces but members of the Croatian forces and they cannot get the status of civilian disability if they were in camps that did not lead the enemy army. So, it's still not settled in this second proposal either. If we want to respect the rule of law and be fair to all civilian war victims, and I hope that we want that fact to be incorporated into this law because otherwise we will eliminate those civilian victims who have been held captive in camps that have not led the enemy army. We believe that the law should also ensure the reimbursement or compensation of the costs of civil war victims who have lost their case in proceedings against the Republic of Croatia under the Law on the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for damage caused by members of the armed and regular forces during the Homeland War. I told you last time about people like Faith Solar, like Anna Bokun, like many other civilian war victims from different parts of our country who lost one of their family members, and either by killing or by some terrorist act, were suffering from bombings or other war operations that failed in the courts in Croatia to receive damages but that the disputes had lost and had to pay huge litigation costs, which is why today they are actually living on the edge of poverty. You can read about these stories, these stories are collected and documented in a campaign called that the civilian victims waited too long and you can see how many different stories, difficult war stories are done and why this law is actually passed. We also draw attention to the problematic article 74 in the first reading of 76, which regulates the fact that civil war victims have caused or worsened the disease. It means when it is defined that it is necessary to prove by medical documentation who comes from a time of abuse or from a time of 30 days after abuse. Exceptionally, a 2-year criterion can be applied. So anyone who works with victims of violence is well aware that victims very often especially in wartime, war events were not able to ask for help in such short time. Others have often asked for help in BiH, for example, so they couldn't or can't come or get medical help, so they don't have, they don't have documentation. So these are some of the things we warned about in the first reading. Unfortunately, as we pointed out, my colleague Bakic for the Law on Defence is also valid for this one, so we did not get any indications according to the Rules of Procedure that we should have received on the remarks we made in the first reading. Here, I'd say we welcome the adoption of this law regardless of certain shortcomings. And tell all the victims they don't have to wait anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54191	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative of Vesna Nadj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54192	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, colleagues and colleagues, respected and representatives of the Association of Civil Victims from the Homeland War, we have before us the Final Proposal of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War. According to the first reading, the law has been amended only nomotechnically, and the essential remarks have not been adopted, so it is full of provisions giving a free assessment of the exercise of rights and is partly transparent and unclear. For example, what it means is that the rights established by this law cannot be fulfilled by all those who have otherwise helped the enemy, as well as by members of their families by the basis of their sufferings. What did they knit on their socks, feed the cattle so they wouldn't starve to death? What is the difference between the helpers listed in the same provision of the draft laws of enemy military and paramilitary forces and those who have otherwise assisted the enemy in any way is not really a clear, over-discretional assessment. Still Minister Medved reiterates that after 25 years of the end of the Homeland War there was no adequate legal framework for civilian victims as if he had slept the winter sleep of those 25 years and had nothing to do with it. Just to remind myself that the HDZ has been in power since the first parliamentary elections in 23 years and could have taken place immediately after the end of the Homeland War only if there had been a will and did not, to pass a comprehensive law on civilian victims of the Homeland War. But let's not fool ourselves, that wasn't HDZ's priority, so they didn't mind that 12 times the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities was changed. The priority was to suppress every initiative that came from the SDP to fully resolve the status and rights of civilian victims. When we came to the mandate of the SDP government, when we drafted a draft bill just from the circles of nearby Ministers Medved and HDZ, the biggest criticism came from former Minister Fred Matic that the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, which was made at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, would equalise the victims and aggressors and that the document of Vesna Terselic was part of it. And today, former Minister Fred Matic reiterates that if Jovan attacked Croatia he has no rights under this law, but his son Jovica cannot and must not be guilty of what his father or grandfather did if he lost his leg in shelling, Croatia must take care of him. But the sheik of the tent was stronger than the voice of reason that, finally as a society, we confess to the suffering of all civilian victims of the Homeland War and adequately from the damages and the Law on the Rights of Civil Victims was not then passed. Obviously, there will be no tents in front of the Croatian Defence Ministry now because HDZ alone knew that. But for once, be honest and say that this law is passed, because it is obviously too much pressure from the coalition partner of the SDSS and the victims' victims' victims' victims' victims. And when the law is passed, and will certainly be passed, and we will support it at all, it is not at all controversial, but should not be thanked to Minister Medveda but to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, as taxpayers, will, for the next 3 years, single out nearly 108 million kunas as stated in the reasoning of the law. However, we are pleased that the rulings have accepted the direction that the SDP government has shown them in regulating the rights of civilian victims in taking our bill as a spring of its proposal. There is no doubt that the initiator of this law is the community of civil victims' associations but it is one thing to be an initiator, and the other to have majority support in the Croatian Parliament, and the representatives of the SDSS make up the ruling majority with HDZ, so there should be no problem with the law being voted. What was not allowed at that time by Minister Fred Matic is now allowed by Minister Medved because it was agreed that HDZ is in a coalition with the SDSS, but to show how many patriots are already listed in Article 1 of the ideological phrases of the Homeland War Declaration, which has absolutely nothing to do with the law and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states in the original provisions a number of the foundations of the Republic of Croatia and thus that the Contemporary Republic is based on its national continuity and on the decisions of ZAVNOH. We have already pointed out in our first reading that the purpose of the law is not to prescribe ideological values and historical truths as set out in Article 1 of the final proposal of the law, but still our observation is not respected because HDZ is an important pathetic, not a substantive legal norm that will be in line with the needs of all potential users of this law. If the proposer had just wanted to appeal to some values, he should have called for the International Criminal Tribunal's judgments for the former Yugoslavia whose verdicts are an important basis for the recognition of the rights of civilian victims from the Homeland War. It should be noted that this law must guarantee all persons who were victims of war no matter where they were found as victims of war, they could also be victims without combat and from whom they were threatened, which means that the problem of civilian victims who have so far been neglected should be approached thoroughly and without discrimination on any basis, whether ethnicity or national origin. It should be possible to remember the status of civilian victims from the Homeland War and with the grounds of imprisonment not only in the enemy camp, prison or facility but also with the grounds of imprisonment in Croatian-controlled facilities such as Laura, Kerestinec or Pakrac plain. If the Government as a Proposer states that the reason why the law is adopted is to complete the process of regulating the rights of all victims of the Homeland War, we propose that it be prescribed that the damage to the organisms of the prisoners referred to in Article 9(1)(a) is, on this basis, at least 20% permanent as prescribed for prisoners in the enemy camp and prison on the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. We point out that Article 6(1) of the Bill on Family Members provides for family members within the meaning of this law to be considered a spouse, an extramarital friend, children members of a family and parents of a wider family, thus resulting from the fact that life and informal life partners are left out of the definition of a family, and as such cannot even exercise the rights that a married and extramarital mate can achieve under this law. The lawyer for gender equality also warned. This law should be a civilization step that will eventually, after more than 25 years in a comprehensive way, recognise the right to moral and then material compensation to civilian victims from the Homeland War. The promoter did not include in the second reading our proposal to regulate housing and health care for all those who could not do so on any other basis. It was also necessary, and it did not regulate compensation for destroyed property by unknown perpetrators in the area outside the war. We welcome the raising of the basis for determining the personal disability of 115% of the budget base for personal disability as recognized for the Homeland War HRI. It is also good to remove obstacles to the right of family disability and to build a basis for family disability. This law establishes the records of civilian victims from the Homeland War, but it will not be public and we are still asking it to be public in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data. According to Article 62, it is not publicly available and used for official purposes. The secrecy of the records does not make any sense, nor does the purpose of publishing data in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, of which secrecy and, as the Tax Administration, for example, publishes taxpayers can therefore be published. The exercise of rights procedure is not transparent because it is prescribed that the Minister will prescribe a way of achieving the status and rights of civilian persons with disabilities and the rights of members of the family of the dead incarcerated and missing. We remind you that the General Administrative Procedure Act requires a procedure for resolving administrative matters, and recognition of the status and rights of civilian victims is a administrative matter. Again, we warn that reviewing the findings and opinions of the first-degree medical committee is unnecessary unless a complaint has been filed. It's unnecessary budget cost and mistreatment of the victim. In spite of these remarks, the SDP final Club will support the adoption of this law because it is on the trail of that bill we proposed in the mandate of the SDP government because the civilian victims deserve to be finally as a society and finally acknowledge the suffering they have been exposed to and adequately, morally and materially compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54193	Thank you. A colleague named Deur has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54194	Dear Vice-President of Article 238, the esteemed representative has expired on various, many lies, insinuations, told some truth, which is that Fred Matic and his associates and former government, wanted to give the aggressors all rights. And through that aggressor form, you've built a whole campaign and this whole law and it's a shame and a tragedy that you've been doing for four years, respected MPs, and that's the only truth you've brought out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54195	My colleague Deur, you know it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if someone is not telling the truth or lying, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not the one who assesses whether someone is lying or not, so I'm giving you a warning. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54196	Madam MPs, a few harsh lies but one of your words is actually a picture and depicts the essence of your reference to this law. So it's embarrassing and inadmissible to call the Homeland War Declaration an ideological phrase. That's really embarrassing. What is completely untrue, and you have told this speaker that this law follows the direction that you've been doing. I would like to hear in this Chamber whether anyone has ever seen a proposal based on the Civil War Victims Act at the time of your term. Those were phrases. It was a hoax. And that was something that was directed in a completely different direction. Therefore, on behalf of the promoter, I reject any insinuation that this law is in any way connected, binding or that it is on the trail of an idea that you started if you started, and you were 15 years in the Ministry of the Croatian Defence and I expected from you a more contentious debate that is more focused on concrete legal solutions related to this law. Finally, as far as your proposal for a register is concerned, you showed your direction by public publication, shameful and unnecessary publication of the Croatian Defence Register, which served only one purpose, which was to create the legal uncertainty of Croatian defenders. For this reason, we removed the register from public publication. Today we have official records of Croatian defenders who are available to official authorities of the Republic of Croatia in light of and with the aim of regulating the rights. The same will be done with the records of civilian victims of the Homeland War. But again, it is unacceptable to call the Declaration of Homeland War an ideological phrase from a representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54197	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, now, colleague Nadj has actually shown Minister Medvedu that, in fact, that I'm right, that it's the law that they've been preparing, you've only done it, you've improved it and you've put it even better and you'll have no fear if you need 100 hands on this left side here and for this law that you need 2/3 most of it you'll get her out of here because they know why they're going to raise their hands. And when you mentioned Mr. Matic, I see you've been attacking him lately. Me and Mr. Matic are like left and right shoes. The right leg doesn't go in the left shoe, so much for that, about Matic and me, so much for that. You can't put me in the same line, right foot doesn't go in the left shoe that you should know about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54199	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54200	Dear Representative Mlinarić, I am not interested in your relationship with Mr Matic at all, one is the fact that both of you in the public space have looked back on a similar concept according to the proposal of this law, and we have responded to that. I repeat this bill, the final bill has nothing to do with something that has never been made, which has never been put into public consultation and that neither of us has seen. I don't know what Mrs. Nadj was talking about and what their ideas were like, what were the directions, what was the strategy regarding treating civilian victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54201	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54202	Thank you very much. Minister Bear, then why were you in the tent raising a hickey and saying we were equating the victim and the aggressor if there was no draft of that bill anywhere? Normally, he wasn't in a public debate when you pushed him in the first place. You can't get away from it, you inherited that splinter we made and you just did it a little bit. You can't get away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54203	The Honorable Minister of Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54204	So I'm going to ask people who work in the secretary-general and the secretary-general who was at the Ministry of Croatian Defence at the time to try to find that sprawl if there's anything left of you other than the burned country. Burned countries in light of the damage done to Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War in every way. And that you wanted to equate the victim and the aggressor, you showed it through hundreds and hundreds of concrete measures and programs that you were implementing, which you were unfortunately able to implement at the time but in 2016 we removed them one by one. Today we also have the proper access to Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, and your sketches if they are in your hidden closets save for memory.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54205	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Stipo Mlinarić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's the Law on Civil Victims of War, second reading, this all that was said in advance by the minister for the first 20 minutes as the promoter most of the things went to me, Mr. Deur what he was saying, Mr. Djakic what he was saying, so here's a little bit to look back on. Here's Mr. Deur first on you and on the anniversary, the fact that you come to the anniversary, you take the diaries, you come there for five minutes, you pass the crown, and you go to the first party, I don't care. I go to places where civilian war victims were killed in Slavonski Brod, Ovcara, anywhere I go alone, and I don't wave to anyone in front of my nose, and I don't brag that it's something, that it's something big. That's what you have in your heart. You don't take pictures for the media. Mr. Djakic, he says why right now, I've all prophesied three months before have media records. I said this law will go at the end of the 6th month here today is 30.6. I said it will be voted in the 7th month, it will be voted in the 7th month. Why? Well, because you knew that before the local elections, you'd have brought it in so you wouldn't be in favor of it. If you'd known it would work out for you, you'd have brought it in now. So, in the evenings as well as last time everything has been played out, except today there is no SDSS, you have agreed with Mrs. Jeckov and Pupovac probably not to come to the assembly today, have a weekend off, but that's why the left side of Mrs. Bencic and the team have taken over the rhetoric of the SDSS and are trying to figure out how they should all be the same. They can't all be the same. They can't be these civil associations that are up there at the gallery can't be the same with those that were showing up in Vukovar, in Shkabrnja anywhere in the occupied area of our people and where our people were being killed. They're not the same for me, and I don't have a problem saying that for this speaker. They're not the same to me, and they can't go through this law. I have prepared 15 amendments, if you accept them and all the amendments that Mrs Rosandic hears not against them, but against Serb civilians who have been in the occupied area so that they cannot pass. If you accept them, you have my hand, and if you don't accept them, then you have an evil intention because if you've had 700 people of the SAO militias through the War invalids Act that I just spoke to, then why should I believe you now that you won't pass through this law another, why should I believe you if you won't accept the amendments. So even these big right-wings here who last time took advantage of what I was abstentioned, now I say publicly if they refuse me amendments don't even have to ask me who last time I'm gonna be against, I'll be against whatever I know there are some civilian war victims. But I don't want anyone to pass, not one that doesn't deserve to pass. And those who deserve who are at the gallery should have received a fee from this Croatian state long ago. It didn't take 30 years for children who died 402 to get their parents a fee. It's a disgrace to this country. It's a disgrace to this country. And I'm not sitting in a assembly for 20 years, my colleague Djakic, but you and you and the president of HVIDR are life-long, so why didn't you fight for these people, for those children, for their parents, why didn't you fight over these 20 years? You've had your chance. You've had your chance. Now I'm going to do a little bit of what I wrote first is quote one. It should be possible to effectively establish the state of all means suitable for proof and to obtain documents for this purpose, to listen to witnesses, to obtain findings and to carry out an eyewitness's opinion. You know, many people fled their homes in 1995 and did not bring any documentation that was missing or destroyed, according to Milena Ćalic Jelic, a lawyer in SNV. The Civil Victims Act received support from the Serbian National Council, the Serb roof organisation in Croatia. The text of the Morning List of November 12, 2020, reads, quotes, the law also has a positive political dimension since it refers mainly to civilians of Serbian nationality between '91. And '96. They lived in areas that were not under the jurisdiction of the Croatian authorities and were also killed. It is estimated that between 8.5 and 9,000 people of whom just over 2,000 lived in occupied areas mean Serbs. All those subject to the law can obtain monthly cash compensation from 114 kuna to 3.824 kuna, completed quote. For my colleague, Jeckov, this law is, as she said in her first reading, one step towards reconciliation and normalization of relations, I cannot believe that a woman can pronounce it for this pay phone, and Mrs Bencic has just said it. So the only ablation that the Croatian state has given them as the winner of the war is quite, quite enough. What are they supposed to pay for now? We should pay them along with our civilians. They should not be paid by the Republic of Serbs and Croatian civilian war victims sitting on the gallery and, and by all other and wartime military disabled. She was supposed to pay war compensation to the campers, not to me personally. I'll give my personal money to charity, I don't care, I don't need it, I don't need their money, I don't need money. No hate turns out like this when I talk about talking to hate. I don't care when the hurricanes fell 2.5.95. The year at Klaic's hospital and in the center of Zagreb when the ballerina was wounded, I don't care who the ballerina is or who the wounded is is a Serb, is Croatia, is Muslim, I really don't care. I'm curious that these people have to be compensated, that's all I care about, nothing else. But those who have been in the occupied area, who have helped, who have cooked, who have treated theirs, they have strong, who have demonstrated our people, who have not, which we have not found for 29 years, those who have excavated the dead bodies of the defender and moved them to other places. And then Mr. Djakic tells me you don't trust the Documentation Centre, you don't trust the services, and the minister tells me that I will trust the services if they can't find 1860 dead people. Dead people are not able to find, so they are not air particles, but people and services have not been able to find them for 30 years, so this speaks of the work of these services and the ability of those services to talk about anything else. Don't talk about me, about you or anything about whoever's paid, whoever's in power they have services they have to do their job for which they're in charge. I didn't see them break off their jobs because if they broke up with their jobs today, my friend Tomislav Sixan's mother could come to his grave and light a candle, and this is how he disappeared in Borovo Selo, and today he's wanted, not him, but 80 people. Uh, now I'm getting a little pissed off. We are daily covered with information that the ministry has worked very well with associations representing civilian victims, and the law presented to us here is nevertheless unskilled. Why? Because this law is the culmination of the Law on the Protection of Civil and Military Disabilities of War and the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. I will give an example in article 44 of the right to free textbooks for regular schooling in high schools can be achieved by children of civilian people killed, dead or missing in the Homeland War. So how many kids in high school get to be in high school? 24 I guess they go to high school, you see who should be sent to education on how and who writes the laws, how a 24-year-old can go to high school, impossible. The rights governed by this law are extended, determined as well as a circle of those who enjoy these rights. In procedural provisions, too much legal matter is left to the regulation of sublaws, which is legally unacceptable. Let's go and talk about the rights of this law. For those who do not know the Document, in 2012, a research report on the civil war victim in Croatia asked for the equalisation of civilian victims with Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. So that's what we have, the Ministry has given them both now and little and more, so we have a right of 3,824,90 fees a month. Until, for example. The Croatian warrior has a minimum pension which, by decision of the HZMO for this year, is 2.558.25, which is the real intensity of the creator of this law. Is this thanks to Croatian defenders because they are very well aware that this law will be consumed without a problem by those who attacked this country, destroyed There goes the time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54207	Thank you very much. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Deur has raised the board. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54208	Honorable Vice President 238, the esteemed representative told a lie, a lie, and I believe he may have been pissed off so he didn't think, maybe he blew it off that I was taking some fees. So first I invite him to check both in the assembly and in the president's office where I've been to find one of the journals I got, but he would like to answer me who writes for him, Frad Matic, Vesna Nadj or Miroslav Škoro. Here, please tell us from the bottom of your heart what you've come to know in times like this, and you're my dear friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54209	Comrade Deur, colleague Deru, please, this is a second reminder based on Article 240. I'm giving you a second warning. You know, and that's what I said last time, if someone tells a lie, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I can't tell, I'm not the one who's going to judge whether something's a lie or a truth. Therefore, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you not to abuse that institution. MP Mlinaric also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54210	So I can get one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54211	Will you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54212	To answer Anti Deura, many get the diaries that come from Vukovar and that, Ante, I don't know about you or care about you, you've been there for five years and you've been squatting there on Pantovčak no one, you haven't worked, you've worked the other, you've been a bridal delivery guy around Croatia, and I don't think you should brag just about what you've done for the Croatian defenders in 5 years back there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54213	A fellow Mlinaric gets a warning too. I'm begging you, let's stop this nonsense, with some kind of fake, false violation of the Rules of Procedure. I am telling you again this is the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, this is the top of democracy, and those who abuse the Rules of Procedure are destroying democracy and doing anarchy I to you, both to you and to you and to everyone who does it and be aware of it, and also citizens are aware of it. Don't think citizens are goldfish. We are going to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've already thought of giving up, but it is necessary to tell the truth in the eye not on a personal level like you did, Mr. Mlinaric, not so boldly as you attack your colleagues. It should be said that there are records, letters, that there is co-operation and discussion that lasts. And the changes to the 12 times of the law are in my term of office as long as I've been a representative since 2003, yes, and that went in favor of the goal. The goal that has never been achieved has always been to respect and oppose certain smart ones under the quotes of humans. In this personal debate, I would like to say to the individual that you do not want to respect Mrs Juliana Rosandić as the president of the community as I see it. You do not want to respect Slavica Marinović, or Lucija Kober, or Ljiljana.../The speaker is not understood, nor Sandra Rabček, nor HVIDRA, nor any other victims' associations that participated, nor journalists, nor prima ballerina who personally participated in this law and the needs of this law, Mrs Almir Osmanovic. You don't want to listen to anyone, you're the smartest person in this House of Commons, your insults are so low, and I'm not going to go down to that level, or to the level of other MPs who've had the opportunity to disrupt the dignity of the Homeland War in their functions by acting on their duties, descending to the lowest level of defensive insults and attacks. Why don't you read the letter, my colleague will have to read it to you from the Civil Victims' Association, maybe your heart would be broken, maybe in a different tone they'd talk, maybe they'd talk differently, maybe they wouldn't suspect, maybe they would believe. Well, we're here, we're still here, and the next three years are there when there's going to be law enforcement, we're here as friends, we're partners with the minister, as comrades who shared evil and good together, and we're going to share this law together to see if it works or not, whether your doubts are justified or not. And I believe they are not, because you would never allow a minister as a Croatian general to do something by being offensive to the Croatian people and Croatian defenders. So there are clear fences and definitions that can't allow what you suspect. That's why the ones you mention are restrained as to the final proposal of this law. He is also good with the intention of repaying the debt to innocent victims who have suffered from Serbian aggression. We agree that these are not privileges as well as in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. This is a real need to at least make up materially for what families of these victims can never materially experience. Yes, they were killed in the great-Serbian aggression, they were victims of great-serb aggression. That's what the law says. That's what the first article says. Yes, we will agree on the war damage, that it is the debt of the Republic of Serbia and will pay for it eventually. That procedure is long and difficult, but it's not forgotten. Be assured that it is taken care of and discussed at the highest European level when and how Serbia will enter the EU until it finds a way to put aside the laws it applies to the Republic of Croatia's jurisdiction in its commitment, the war damage compensation it has caused...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54215	Thank you. We have one replica. Thank you, colleague Djakic. [[Intruder Djakic: And show where the victims are looking.]] Honorable representative Nadj has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54216	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, you are constantly calling for a violation of the national war. Well, you've been here 25 years in the Croatian Parliament, you could have passed the Law on the civilian victims of the Homeland War. Why are you calling me, so I'm here for the first time. Here I am voting for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54217	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54218	Well, colleague Nadj, you are a civil servant at the time of those who served the devil and swore to serve the Motherland. You are one of those who brought the greatest evil to Croatian defenders along with Fred Matic and Pandjic. You're one of those evils that never happened to us again, you and your party. Please don't drag me by the tongue, so I can list everything you've done and what you've created for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54219	The Honorable representative, Nadj, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54220	Thank you very much. 238. The MP calls the MP in an inappropriate manner and actually humiliates the representative. I find that inappropriate in this Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54221	Okay. I don't think the Rules of Procedure were hurt, because you used statements that weren't exactly appropriate. I didn't react to that, I didn't react to this either. But please stay away from any personal objections. It was on various sides of personal objections, let's not do that. Let's not talk about the law, talk about the subject, and let's not give each other what they did and whether they did right, whether he did wrong, whether he was doing wrong, rather than discussing what's in front of us right now. This is important and we think of the civilian victims of the Homeland War, not our ego. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative, Ivan Penava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54222	Respected representatives of civilian victims from the Homeland War, respected chairman, colleagues and colleges, respected ministers and ministry representatives. Croatia in which the rule of law is a fundamental postulate and imperative has no alternative. It'll either exist like that or it won't be. In such a state, when a criminal offence occurs, whether a robbery or a war crime is found guilty, the verdict is handed down, the damage follows. However, you are leading Croatia in a completely different direction because, based on your bill, it is more important that you demonstrate in the management of the state, you obviously have a different logic. You have found the guilty party, you avoid the verdict and you do not want to make it, and you believe that compensation should be paid by Croatia as a victim of crime or aggression. This is a disaster for Croatia. You are as a proposer in Article 1(3). The proposal of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War defined the culprit through a quote, an armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA with an armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, near the quote. Even in the same article, you called it value as if this setting was the starting point of all policies and practices in the Republic of Croatia, which is the consensus of all political actors and which, as such, permeates all pores of Croatian society, which is unfortunately not true. Although a similar formulation exists in the Constitution, in the laws, the Assembly Declaration of the Homeland War, it is a mere form and represents a dead letter on paper which deceives yourself, and part of the Croatian public you rub your eyes. Why would I think that? Because after these big, brave, just words that you state nothing happens, nothing but satisfying individual and daily political interests. There's no verdict, gentlemen. These same aggressors that you courageously cite as guilty you have repeatedly protected by part and failure for 30 years. There are no rulings of the tops of Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the rebel part of the Serb population in the Republic of Serbia that you have cited as aggressors, therefore these words are irrelevant and empty and they represent nothing and at the level of the Cavanaugh stories because you and I know who the aggressors are, which is recognised by this law, the Declaration of Homeland War and the Constitution is worth as much as a pissy Bob until there is a justice of a judicial establishment that, with the support of the ruling structures, avoids saying 30 years. Croatia, which is not a foreign force protectorate, but a sovereign and free state recognises your intention and what good you write about in the proposal for this law. He sees and recognizes the destruction and suffering that aggression has brought us, but this Croatia reacts and does not turn its head as you do today, but also for years, that ours, yours, and my Croatia to aggression, destruction and suffering corresponds not only to a magnificent victory in the Homeland War, it reacts to the verdicts and long prison sentences of the aggressors and criminals. Why is he doing this? Because that's what modern sovereign states do, because it's fair both by God and by law, because it's the foundation of the hygiene of a society, because we care about our past and the future. Because of the past because the dead do not seek compensation, no material rights can satisfy them anymore. What we can do for the dead together can provide them with justice and peace through the punishment of their executioners. And because of the future that no one ever thinks about attacking, destroying, robbing, raping, killing the Croatian state, Croatian people and Croatian citizens again, because for the future, it is not the most important thing that anyone has won the prize, but the way it is placed against the executioner, how they treat the aggressors, their names and dragon prison sentences are certainly an important prerequisite for a healthy and functional society in the future. With this bill of law, you satisfy important but yet individual interests that I personally support because I believe that each victim must receive satisfaction and care. However, what I cannot support is the way of work and the framework that you who have been in power persistently demonstrate for 30 years through the approval and support of inefficient institutions from the Constitutional Court, the state's attorney's office to the Supreme Court, and through the appointment and adoption of reports by their leaders. Such a way of working insists on sacrificing the most state-of-the-art interests and sending a message that it is worth being an aggressor, that it is worth it to be a terrorist because the Republic of Croatia will not punish you and condemn you, but perhaps you will be rewarded, compensated, and perhaps you will get what you would in madness not think that you are managing the state through a coalition. However, speak in the proposal for this law on members of adversaries and associates of enemy units While it sits in your power [[Intruder: Thank you.]] is yet underestimating common sense. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54223	Thank you very much, counsel Penava. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54224	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Penava, I have listened very carefully to you, and out of not one word of yours I am neither thought nor sentence, which is why you will be specifically against this law. Your presentation, your debate was embroiled by dissatisfaction that in your opinion, the Republic of Croatia has not done enough to prosecute war crimes committed by members of the paramilitary Serb troops and JNA in the Croatian Homeland War area. I can agree with you in part, although I would like to say that no government has done so far, and I believe that you share that opinion with me has done no more to prosecute war crimes. Therefore, to the side of dissatisfaction both with yours and with anyone we haven't as a state enlightened all the crimes that have taken place, but this should be devoid of the noble goal that this law is trying to resolve and compensate and acknowledge the status of civilian victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54225	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54226	Dear Representative Bačić, thank you for the replica, so I will repeat it now in a slower voice because there has simply been a lot to say. So, in the very introduction of my presentation, I said by following a healthy logic that the first thing to follow was the detection of the culprit for war crimes in this case, followed by a statement of judgment, after knowing who the guilty party was following the damages. You unfortunately, you and all of us, but in this proposal don't follow that logic, you are through the opening words that I quoted the culprit in the armed aggression of Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the armed rebellion of part of the Serb population, you have no verdict, I repeat, you have no verdict of the General Staff and of all others and you are throwing yourself at the third segment of the final, you are going to be compensated. From who? From the victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54227	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected MP Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54228	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Penava, I'd like you to take it out since you're the mayor of Vukovar's opinions, the anxiety of the people you meet daily, who have passed the Calvary of Camps, the families who are looking for more of their missing. What they say when it comes to the Civil Victims Act of War without fuses where those of the Negoslavs, Borov Sela, who actually showed up their sons, and eventually, unfortunately, killed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54229	The Honorable Representative of Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54230	Unfortunately, this fear is real, but as much as I appreciate emotion, toothache, fear, uncertainty that we all contributed to because of passivity and failure, I don't want to sacrifice this debate because we're missing a bigger picture. So, as I said to my colleague Bačić, we're doing a tough job, we're doing a dangerous job for Croatia, we're running away from the charges, we're avoiding saying it through this country's judicial system and we're condemning those who deserve it, and we're talking about how we're going to do it in some way. How and in what way if you do not have the rightful judgment? How am I or you gonna call anyone and based on what? I'm just gonna risk the charges for a reason. It's somebody's fault. Here I am looking here from 2011 the title of the Evening Party says, "The Vukovar indictment exists but no one has been charged yet."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54231	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Penava, you're talking about war damage and damage to the victims not being defined anywhere. I will remind you of five specific criteria and criteria that have been incorporated by all 28 EU members, the European Commission has put into negotiations with the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. Secondly, the damage Serbia needs to ensure in protecting victims' rights is in line. Not to mention finding the missing in the first place. The law's jurisdiction also to stop Serbian against Croats. And when you're talking about the coalition, I think you're a mature example that you've created an unprincipled coalition in the city, so I'd ask you not to mention to us what you've done to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54233	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54234	Thank you for asking. Mr. Djakic, I am sure at least I am becoming less and less sure that you are holding this indictment in my hands, which, unfortunately, is 19 years old, which begins with the first defendant Veljko Kadjevic, so it goes through Adzic, Jurjevic, Stevanovic, Mrksic, Sljivancanin, etc. who, unfortunately, has not yet seen fair judgments on this matter in our legal framework. And I wonder what the contribution is, first me of course, and then you and all of us that why this is like this. Second of all, as far as the coalitions are concerned, you're very much in the slippery field. I'm asking you not to enter any personal dilemmas. I'll say what hurts me the most. While you're in the coalition with those who support the mausoleum of the Chetnik Duke, you have no right to say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54235	The next replica will be the respected representative of Stipe Mlinarić, please. I'm sorry, it's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54236	Thank you, Chairman. Now I'd like to tell my colleague Deura who's writing my speeches. No one's writing me speeches. If it said Mr. Miroslav Skoro, then it would be a memory speech. As you sang his songs, so would you probably listen to his speeches as well. So much for that. Now, colleagues to Djakic. You're listening today, and you need to listen. And you sing? Bravo! Good for you! Mr. Djakic, I can't take the standard of value for you, nor should you take it for me, that you don't think I'm implying anything to you. So you can't be my benchmark if you're 20 and a few years in the Croatian Parliament. I've been a year, not a year and no Civil Victims Act has been passed. You could have initiated it. You're president of HVIDR for as long as I've known for about 20 years. I've never been a member of any association, never your HVIDRA or any other association, because I'm not interested and I'm not interested in the opinion of any association. I can tell everyone what I mean, I don't have a problem with that. Nor do I pay them, paid by Minister Bear. And then who gives me more money is more for you. That's what the bird on the branch knows. So you can't set some standards. But if I raise my suspicion that someone could go through this because in my first reading, Dragan Jeckov came out to me for a pay phone and said it was for our people who were in... In prison, in Kerestinco, in Lori, it's compensation for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I guess I have a right to ask what happens to me who was in the camp and with 15,000 people. Where's our damages? Where are those convictions that Prime Minister Plenkovic is as a great diplomat or anyone else, I don't insult anyone, I just call no one out for trouble. Where are these judgments of our legal experts from the government sent to the International Court or any other court to pay compensation for campers who were in the camps. A lot of people were killed in camps. What about them? Nothing. Forgotten. No convictions, no damages, no nothing. Nothing! We haven't moved, we haven't moved since '91. The year until 2021 about the lawsuit and everything else. We moved as far as the law is concerned, every honor, the Ministry of Defence for the sake of good law on wartime wartime disableds that we will support is no problem, but they pay Croatian taxpayers, they don't pay Serbian taxpayers who should pay those people for losing the leg of your friends, Deur's friends, my friends, they should pay those people because they attacked us, we didn't go attacking them in Novi Sad or Sombor or anywhere, no bullets fired against them. Therefore, when I ask such a question and such a doubt, such a suspicion makes you angry, you go to a personal level and you think I'm saying something against anyone else. When I called for delegations to come on the anniversary, I will personally tell myself about this phone booth when I see 18.11. evening that the crowd of people came in there in a column, messing around, then go to the first party and get drunk, I'm not doing it anywhere, and I'm never going to work, I'm not like that. If I come, I go to the Shepherd at midnight, and I don't complain to my colleague Deur or you, or anyone else, why don't you come at midnight. I have a personal, I go at midnight, I'm there, I sit there for an hour, I pray for all the people who lost their lives there, and I go home, I don't go drinking, I don't go singing. That's who I am. And if you resent me for not being on every anniversary so I don't care and I won't go, I won't go, and I don't care, I don't care. I don't care if any associations see you there, I don't care about associations, I don't care. Thank you, I have another minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54237	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Shashin, it can't be over. Dear Representative Shashin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54238	Dear Mr. Mlinarich I'm really impressed by what you're saying and you want to show yourself that you really are consistent and that you stick to some principles, etc., so recently you said in Bujica or somewhere that you can't understand, you can't support Mr. Djapic, who is playing the great defender, and he defended the streets of Zagreb in '91, but then it's not clear to me how you can support your great leader who at the time defended the Indians in America. [[Intruder: Take off the mask just to hear you.]] I really don't get it. How? I really don't get it, here, if you can explain it to me a little bit. [[Let him go, let him go, let him go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54239	I can explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54240	Can I give you my word? Dear Representative Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54241	I'm sorry, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll give you a colleague very clear answer. Mr. Miroslav Skoro, mentioned in '89. The year he went not to see Milan that he could have predicted war in '91. year, but your Mr. Plenkovic, your colleague Jandrokovic, a colleague here behind me, you were all there, so why weren't they at war. That's not what you're wondering. And for Mr. Djapic, the great HOS Major, who went from Osijek to Zagreb, and he's going to give someone a hand on who's the man who's trying to get his hands on me, and I haven't left my town. And thanks to Deura and the others who came to my town, I thank them this way, but Mr. Djapic I said it was zero for me because he went from his hometown to Zagreb, an escape. And Mr. Skoro was in '89. The year went to.../incomprehensible... how many people went away in '89. years from Croatia, anywhere in Germany, they have all returned to war, they haven't, I know they haven't. So what now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54242	Thank you very much, thank you very much, because you mentioned me then look at my résumé and you will see, you can ask and here is a colleague that I've met with at the time, so I've been a volunteer since day one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54243	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54244	There, just so much, just so much, read a little bit when you call people with their résumés.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54245	I apologize publicly, but if we're going to go on then don't take me by the tongue please, would I eat all the casings you shot at the enemy soldier, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54246	Dear representative Boric has this word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54247	An esteemed colleague of mine was a little emotional, so perhaps I didn't understand, you think that the injured civilians in Lora, for example, or Mrs. Marija Lovric, who has a disabled child and whose husband has gone down the Drava in the Selotyp affair they don't deserve to be civilian victims of war.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54248	You understand me very well, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54249	Can I give you my word? Come on, let's calm down, let's calm down. Dear Representative Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54250	No, no, I'm calm. Don't be afraid. I don't have a problem, Mrs. Boric, like they have problems. Yeah, for me, they can't get it. Those who were in Lora were enemy soldiers who were captured and who were either there or were snipers or were with radio stations that were reporting, that they were both in Osijek and in Split and in all the cities. And so they were supposed to end up in Lori, and they were exchanged for me and those people that we were in Serbian camps. You never asked yourself, I didn't hear you ask me if I got compensation for the camp, I spent 270 days for nine months. You don't care about me, and you take care of Lori, you take care of her. That lady you mentioned I don't know, I have no idea what you're talking about, but if you're talking about who and Mrs. Jeckov who said that in the first reading in a lie so she ran out, I really can't answer you when I don't know who you're talking about. And for Laura, for the Kerestinac and for the Osijek prison, I know that enemy soldiers were captured and exchanged there for me or for other defenders. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54251	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Rada Simicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54252	... Croatian Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, here are representatives of civil associations of victims of the Homeland War I will try to say something about the law, little and with emotions, but also with what it says. [[Specially enabled.]] So, before us is the proposal for a final Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War. After the first reading, which was very dynamic and many of what inaccuracies and insinuations were made a major step in removing ambiguity and dilemma. This legal framework aims to correct the debt injustice, unfortunately for 30 years. Unfortunately, this cannot be corrected for 7263 killed civilians, 345 killed children of whom the youngest victim had only three months and 108 children with permanent disability. There is no greater pain and grief than the death of a child, in a way that was done by a great Serb aggressor who wanted to occupy the territory of our country of Croatia, all with the goal of all Serbs living in one country. According to the current law, the law currently lays down 1850 civilian people with disabilities from the Homeland War, and 135 members of the family of killed citizens from the Homeland War. We Croats should often turn this defetism that we have into optimism and here publicly thank the Croatian Government and Defence Minister Tommy Bear, the proud man and hero of the Homeland War, that after so many years they have launched a procedure that is in one place a complete solution for the civilian victims of the Homeland War. Here I want to remove any dilemma that I or anyone in this House will raise my hand to the aggressor or any helper, the traitors of our country who wanted to exercise the right that doesn't belong to them. Anyone can seek the right they want, but can't achieve what doesn't belong to him, especially when it comes to the pride of the Croatian man Homeland War. It is important to stress that anyone who wishes to exercise his right should also prove it, but not with health documentation issued in the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia or in the territory of Serbia-Montenegro's aggressor army, but also in the health institutions of the Republic of Croatia. We can compare this with counterfeit diplomas that unfortunately we have in institutions where people have been doing a responsible job, but when they've been discovered, an extraordinary job quit. This will be the case with the wicked who try to deceive the Croatian state. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is said that civilian victims of the Homeland War under the same conditions as those laid down in this law can exercise the following rights. A real disabled person based on damage to the organism, right based on the loss or disappearance of family members and other rights. What is particularly important to highlight is Article 5. All those Serbs and others who belonged in any way, assisted or cooperated with the enemy army, all the abolized enemy aggressors who belonged to domestic and imported Chetniks and other paramilitary troops who participated in the war against the Republic of Croatia as well as members of their families, as well as persons who, according to the criminal record run by the state administration, are convicted by a judicial powerful verdict for crimes committed during the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and by members of their families, of their deaths. The promoter recognised the need for a new law to regulate everything the law so far has not done, which is a comprehensive exercise of the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War. And here, it is no less important to stress that the Croatian government has provided financial resources for 2021, a 2022 and 2023 projection worth 130 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54253	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54254	Dear fellow Shimičevic, here I believe that you as a Croatian defender must be behind your statement that you would never raise your hands for a law that would allow the rights of enemy soldiers. And you are calling on the law to state strictly that the documentation issued on the territory of the Republic of Croatia will be recognised, medical documentation. Well, I have to defuse you here. For example, in that article, paragraph 73. There is a third paragraph which states: ‘In addition to the documentation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, in order to determine that the wound or injury is obtained under the circumstances referred to in Article 9 of this Act, other evidence prescribed by the Regulation referred to in Article 72 of this Law will be provided, which means that the Regulation will only determine, or only the Ministry which will be responsible for the acceptance of any person as a victim, a civilian victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54255	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54256	Thank you, Your Honor. If I read that, I'm not a lawyer, but I think the basic prerequisite for someone to do something is to have documentation. So, if he doesn't have the documentation, and there's no documentation that's been issued in the health institutions of the Republic of Croatia, he's got files on Cyrillic, he's got files from Panchev, he's got documents from Novi Sad or from the occupied Vukovar. I don't think he's going to exercise his rights no matter what the evidence might give him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54257	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54258	My colleague, you're talking about how you won't reward the aggressor. The question arises as to how the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, taxpayers can trust you. Namely, you and your government pay and reward a certain Dragan Montenegrin with a high salary of 15000 kuna. We're wondering why? He works for some state-owned company, while in fact he is actively working against Croatia, he slanders the Croatian state. It's all criminal acts. He's saying that Storm was a crime. So how can we trust your government that's so contradictory, speak one thing and do the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54259	Dear Representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54260	Thank you, colleagues. Well, look, I am a proud Croat and I am proud to live in my homeland and I trust this Croatian government chosen in the end by the Croatian people. The fact is that I mentioned earlier that we have in the system and Croatians, patriots who had counterfeits who had forged diplomas and raised Croatian youth or did responsible jobs. So in the system it can always happen, it happens in both America and Australia, and unfortunately in Croatia. I'm just as sensitive as you that any aggressor, a Serb gets any right that doesn't belong. Here I exempt 10,000 Serbs who participated in the Homeland War and who also installed a part of themselves in the free and independent state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54261	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54262	Thank you very much. Comrade Simičević, here is another debate about the law similar to the first. We're in, but we suspect as soon as there's one fellow representative of the suspect law no longer good, and then it goes to the ether all of what they're interested in as a detail. You'll give the aggressors these and those fees, and we're against it and we're fighting a political battle here obviously. Because it's obviously good to insinuate without any evidence to say anything here, but here we are the ones who give they're against. And there will be a battle not now, but in the coming years of application of this law. Even trying to say that the Regulation can derivate a provision of a law that's clear as day that you can't. So we're already doubting the sublegal act. And by doing so, we will fight as we do with this law and the passing of it. We will vote to show that we care about the civilian victims of war regardless of what they are trying to tell us, and it will show time whether this minister was telling the truth or telling a lie. And you'll see he's been telling the truth like he's been saying all these five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54263	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54264	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, if I can trust anyone, and I trust all my fellow fighters, then it's Honorable Defence Minister Tomo Bear. The man who has been through the entire Homeland War, who has participated in all the important battles for the free and independent state of Croatia, I absolutely trust him and believe that what he writes in this law will be respected. I will be deeply unhappy if any aggressor soldier any member of their family, any helper succeeds and gets what doesn't belong to him, but it will certainly be a fake and I believe that our services will not say that I know much more than some people here have said, but I have information that our services have everything they need to prevent any abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54265	Thank you. Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54266	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear fellow Shimičević. We all agree that the law should have been passed before, but this government and this ministry have not only gained strength, but has made a bill that was made in accordance with those for which this law has been passed, and these are associations of victims, or people who were civilians and have been killed in the Homeland War. But the focus of the public wants to switch to something else, there are 9,000 Chetniks who will receive some kind of pension from the Croatian state, and do you think that the man who is here with us, who honorably defended his homeland, would have earned that honor and bloody paid along with all Croatian defenders any one in the way that some MPs want exactly what I was talking about put into that second focus and law essentially declare something that is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54267	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54268	Thank you, dear colleague. Yeah, there are days when I'm not happy either, but I have to live them. Right? So here and here, I may not be happy with some people I watch in this assembly, and they are chosen by the Croatian people. But what I'm sure of is that Mr. Tomo Bear knows what he's doing and that he's made all kinds of fuses, preventive measures that this law won't tolerate me not saying freedom of interpretation so that people who have been aggressors to the Republic of Croatia can exercise any right of this country. Because these people aren't, and the question is whether they consider this country their own country now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54269	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54270	I should like to say immediately that the Croatian government was not elected by the people, but the Croatian Parliament was elected by the people, and the government was chosen by HDZ and SDSS with the man Stanimirovic who was an aggressor, played a very important role of this coalition partner of yours in occupied Vukovar. I can talk about it, and I guess you know something. So that story absolutely doesn't hold water. Yes, three commend the Minister of the Bear as the defender. We little defenders were also at war, but these larger stands really commended. But I also note once again, there's no reason to think about it here. We have to have a registry of the aggressors, and you're the secretary of the Ministry of the Environment, look at some Mile cannon was, well shot, that he was a very precise, very good artilleryman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54271	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54272	Thank you, dear colleague. Yes, the Croatian people chose Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament. You're right about that, and we chose the government. But the government has the support of elected MPs, so it all comes to the same. [[What are we going to do now? Come on, please, gather yourself together! — Ps. Here you are, colleague Šimičević.]] [[The Knights of Knights will deal with it.]] Mr. Representative, we're talking about the law. Of course there have been failures so far, but this government, this minister is really trying to do everything, but all that is positive for Croatian defenders, for the victims of the Homeland War, for the civilian victims of the Homeland War, and he has my support in the work that works together with his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54273	The Honorable Representative of Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54274	Thank you very much, dear fellow Shimičić. Here's the offer I didn't mean to call, but regarding this statement, it's a good thing it did. Yours, which you have quoted, in fact, the provisions of the bill that will be acted on the basis of documentation issued by the RS institutions in that religion, you live, and I believe the vast majority of us here. However, here is also the inquiry and the Minister Tommy Bear and his associates, so there is something called the Constraint Act, which has been in effect since 8.10.1997. the years which, in its Article 1, consisting of only 4 articles, all individual acts and decisions taken by or issued by different bodies or legal entities having public authority, shall be adopted or issued in cases of a judicial and administrative nature in the territory of the Republic of Croatia which have been or are now under the protection or administration of the UN; I still don't have to read to you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] This is the legal property of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54275	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54276	Thank you. Your Honor, I have this law and I read it in law. You wouldn't really ask me about pedagogy, but I'm saying that this law is a second reading, and we've all read, I've read that no one who was an aggressor, who was helping or being an enemy soldier is going to be able to accomplish it. The law will come into force very soon and we will be witnesses if any failures are observed in this law and I do not believe that our Minister Tomo Bear will tolerate them, and neither will any of us here who love and regard Croatia as our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54277	Now, we're gonna take a break because it's been more than three hours to get wind, so I'll meet you back here in 10 minutes or 22, 23 and 5. It's 10:00.55. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 23.05 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54279	Dear Chairman, I think it is in the interest of all of us in this assembly to pass the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War and this law should have been passed 20 years ago because we all probably agree that all those who were killed as civilians in the Homeland War, other permanent disabled, all those families whose members lost their lives as civilians in the Homeland War should be given certain satisfaction from the Croatian state, should also receive certain permanent material rights. And although this final bill is more quality than the law that was in the first reading, I am particularly thinking of Article 5, which explicitly says who does not have the right to achieve the status of civilian victims of the Homeland War, we at the Club of Croatian Sovereigns continue to be concerned about the simple reason and simple question. Do Croatian institutions have an accurate list of all those who openly participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia? We don't have the answer. Do the Republic of Croatia, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, have an accurate list of all persons who were part of the militia units in the occupied area? We don't have the answer. Do the institutions of the Republic of Serbia have a list of all local officials, state officials and quasi-state SAO provinces who have openly advocated the grand Serbian idea and have been assistants in accordance with this Article 5th enemy? We don't. And that's where the biggest problem lies, and that's where our fear lies that despite these fuses, individuals who don't deserve it will get away with it. And that we and our fellow citizens who are filling the Croatian budget from that same Croatian budget will give financial resources to those who have been scramblingly fighting this Croatian state. I've already shown this one picture, and I'm going to show you another picture of the same civilian, with a gun in his hand and a Serbian tricolour, the Benkovec area, the beginning of the balvana revolution. If anyone knows if that civilian got into somebody's records later, whether he's hurt or not. If he is wounded, he can demand rights from the Croatian state according to this law because we do not know if he was a member of the enemy army. And even this famous Article 73 says that it will obviously accept some other documentation according to the regulation, not just documentation in the area of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore believe that the amendments of the Croatian sovereigns should be respected in order to make it impossible for the enemies of the Croatian state to benefit from this law and unlike Milorad Pupovac, unfortunately your coalition partner who in the worst disasters counted the blood cells of the victims of earthquakes we in Croatian sovereigntys do not count blood grains in respect of law according to the law, according to those civilians who were truly civilians regardless of who were Serbs, Croats, Hungarians, but let us really give these rights to those who deserve it. Unfortunately, this bill still makes it impossible for individuals to benefit themselves. And if one law isn't good, and I'm afraid there'll be a lot more of them than that one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54280	The next debate will be the respected representative of Stipan Shashin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54281	As in the previous reading, I will try to be really concise and clear with as concrete as possible some facts regarding this bill. I see this bill in a way as two segments or two parts. Two parts involving two different groups of people during the Homeland War. The first group of people were people who were on the then free territory of the Republic of Croatia who, together with members of the Croatian Army and other armed forces, participated in the defence as civilians who were in cities, who were directly on the first line of defense. Let us not forget that both Osijek and Vinkovci and Slavonski Brod and Karlovac, Gospić not to list all Zadar, etc., were all practically on the first line. These are people who were with the Croatian army every day. To carry out their daily duties, tasks, it worked in all these cities all practically, there were bread and water and electricity and gas, they were driving trams, simple life was working. It has in some ways ensured that we are able to defend these cities to defend the Republic of Croatia. And it is very and very difficult to even tell who is responsible but unfortunately many of these people have not regulated their status to this day, and they were killed during the Homeland War. They suffered, and then they didn't think about their status, how, simply, time would bear it and it came to this day, unfortunately, individuals still haven't solved it. And it is this law that allows them to finally resolve their status, to exercise their rights that belong to them. I don't think there's anything here and we all agree that it's necessary and that this law should be adopted as soon as possible in terms of the exercise of their rights. Now, we're coming up with that other group of people that we can't forget about, too. These are people who unfortunately found themselves in the Homeland War in the occupied part of the Republic of Croatia. The people who found the war were mainly, most of them about older people simply came or were blocked in their villages, in their homes and could not leave their homes, they couldn't leave the area, and here I have to say some, unfortunately, if not everyone was even in the camps. Some were in house arrests, where they experienced various horrors. I can cite a series of examples in my village of young people, the Barisic family, not to list all those who have been tortured for several weeks in their home, couldn't, couldn't leave the house until they've finally just disappeared, and today they don't know where the family is. And their children could not exercise any rights, and yet, their children were in the Croatian army in Osijek at that time, members of the armed forces. And they couldn't exercise any rights until their parents declared themselves dead. It's the law that makes it right. Željko Mandl, a young boy found at the 9th month in Baranja, imprisoned for 2 months in every possible way until he was eventually killed and buried there. How can his family exercise their rights? We can't be indifferent to that. There are hundreds of such examples, thousands. What some in the public and here in this assembly doubt I fully understand, or their desire to ensure that none of those who were on the opposite side exercise any rights. Do you think that we the defenders who were with you would be there today to stand up for them? There are fuses in Article 75 clearly states that, in order to achieve any status, it must have documentation issued by the relevant and competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, it is mostly police administrations, etc., and it must have confirmation of the circumstances of the accident. We talked very little about this attestation today, no one mentioned it. That certificate is very precise and clear. You yourself who were commanders and yourself wrote such certificates for our defenders, for our people. when they determined disability. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54282	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54283	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Vice President and the Ministers of Croatian Defence, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Fellows and fellow MPs, here is a little midnight, but what I find to be the most painful thing about this Civil Victims Act in this debate is that our mothers are present and that, in the first and second readings, they may experience even greater torment that human in their homeland after they have lost their children, family, and this is that in this house, they are devalued in various ways. It's something that bothers me deeply as a man. Not getting anyone, every MP and MP have the right to their own eyes and thank God that we all have seen it that way, but I am sad that in these situations there was no consensus. Surely it is, I agree when it is said that for 30 years we have been waiting for this law and it is pain. The pain is for all of us, me personally as a man could not accept that not one aggressor of those who attacked the Republic of Croatia consume this law. It's something that would be devastating for all of us here, but I'm also convinced that this government and this minister have done everything and will make all the institutions so that it never happens, that it's something that can't happen. Here, I'd like to read something. In the 2015 working group, which was then appointed by Minister Matic with representatives of the competent authorities, representatives of the Paper of the Centre for the Facing of the Past, the Association of Serbian Families of the Killed, the Dead, the Missing, and today what Minister Medved is, are partners, representatives of the Association of Croatian Civil Victims Association of the Homeland War. I'm not talking about that law that never came out in the light of day, what it is and where it would go. Where he would have gone if that government had then remained and former President Josipovic where he then tried to work the law. Today this law gives security to families, let's all take it together, let's give people some respect and break up with this political activism of ours. Homeland war is sacred. Croatian defenders, victims as well as civilians who were killed in the Homeland War because that grenade and the Chetnik hand did not choose who was a soldier, a police officer and a civilian. We all know that, and we've seen it. Let's stop here about all sorts of things, sure we want to know who the aggressor is. That's what we all want together, who doesn't want it? Who doesn't want to see who he was, who he was in Vukovar, what they were doing both in Skabrnj and Kostanica, etc. Let's be aware of that, but let's be aware that these people who are here tonight, these mothers, they expect us to. They expect this respect that we must give them because of these children who were killed, and at the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and all of us and those who will be tomorrow is that they will not harm the laws of the Republic of Croatia, that it will not happen in 2000 when our generals were taken to The Hague, because I am also a participant, because I was with the family of Gotovina and Chief General Janko Bobetka where I was with him when the late Prime Minister Racan came. And a lot to live through today with me and Minister Bear as some high-level traitors. Some who were not, we also want to declare deserters who were not participants in the Homeland War, were not in Croatia while some came from Canada as Minister of Shusuk, General Kapularar, who left his wife in Canada. Let's stop it! Let's give people satisfaction and respect and ask you all together because we're all friends together no matter what political party we come from. We've got activists all year round. This is not a time of activists, it's a time of respect for national values.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54284	Will you respect the Rules of Procedure or not? Let's make a deal right now. Please! Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54285	Dear colleague Deur, no one is here for this, and we must all have wide open eyes so that no single case of exploitation of this law happens by those who do not want to. But even if an individual case were to happen, if we were to correct the injustice that you're saying, and all of us here that's been going on for 30 years with those who have been killed, according to those women down there all night, they've been here with us today and they're listening to this debate. If, according to hundreds of these people, we're correcting a mistake and an injustice that's been going on for decades, then we've done a big job. We all have to have our eyes wide open together. I think the whole of Croatia knows and talks about this and knows who might try to use these rights. And we have to stop that. But this law corrects injustice, gives to those who have been killed, and we all know that they have been killed in Zagreb and all the cities have been. There's nothing to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54286	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54287	Thank you, Your Honor. I agree with everything you said. This law corrects injustice, and on all institutions of the Republic of Croatia and at this Croatian Assembly today and tomorrow, it is the responsibility to monitor that no aggressor soldier who has been captured and what our colleagues have spoken before because no Croatian soldier has crossed the border of the Republic of Croatia. It is something that is clear and loud and we must always stand behind it in the values of our families, lives and Croatian people and states. Those are the values. But these mothers, civilians, that's the value of ours and us as individuals. Because if we're not able to do that, we're not even worthy as humans to be in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54288	The next debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54289	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill depicts today's Croatian reality, i.e. Croatian absurd. The government that has sworn to work for the interests of Croatian citizens and states, which these citizens pay, acts in a way that every normal person is asked for whose interests the government is working for. Facing the past as we know it is a prerequisite for building long-term peace and healthy social relations. Why was one Germany after '45? subject to the so-called “understanding” of the so-called “subsistence” of the so-called “subsistence” of the so-called “subsistence” of the so-called “substantiated” of the so-called “substantiated” of the so-called Were Germany successful today and were there in any way today's EU if it hadn't been for this process? The victory forces led by the United States could also opportunistically bypass that painful process for defeated Germany, because, as we know, there was already a common enemy in then-blocked Europe. But there are processes that cannot be avoided. These processes are called punishment for crime and damage to the victim. Because crime is not only punishable as a satisfaction of the victim, it's a punishment and a message that crime is not paid back. You gentlemen of power as well as those who support this anti-civilisation and anti-European law should be aware that this is how you reward the crime committed by the nationalist and genocide Serb troops. We can call politics today, but we can also call previous governments irresponsible, unfair and borderline in terms of the crime of high treason. While our poverty is growing this way, you share the money of Croatian taxpayers. Who gives you the right to do that? It is clear to everyone that the innocent victim must be compensated because of the war, but it is also clear from whom. The damage is being paid by the wartime conflict against all rulings that the International Criminal Tribunal and the Court of Justice are solely responsible for the war in Croatia, is the Republic of Serbia and the then JNA, controlled by Serbia. But some of the domicile Serbs in Croatia are also guilty. The question arises who gives the right of the ruling structure to falsify historical facts and not build long-term healthy relations in Croatian society, but also the environment. Are you aware that when you pay compensation to families of aggressor soldiers in the event of a Korean bridge, you reward large-scale Serbian nationalism and feed it for further aggression. Has this situation been recorded in a civilized country of the world? If there is a register of people who defended Croatia, then there must also be a register of Croatian citizens who participated in the aggression in Croatia. I don't think an ordinary citizen who's been mobilized or committed any crimes should suffer the consequences. No, he's covered in ablation, but the truth has to be known. If someone was killed in the release of Croatia, and there was a civilian in the occupied area, he should receive compensation but exclusively from the war criminal, which is the Republic of Serbia. Under this law, an oil-stealing worker from Djeletovac and injured in the theft of Croatian property will be compensated or those who worked for the occupation Serb army and systematically steal for example. the tons of oak forests and were injured in that theft will be compensated. Also, the truck driver who drove our wounded from the Vukovar hospital in Ovcar to be enraged by the Chetnik gangs killing them, will be injured by this law. Are you aware of what you are doing to Croatian citizens? Please tell me how much the Germans have damaged Poland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium, France or the Czech Republic. Do you know how much? None. This is a complete absurdity and a crime of justice and justice. This is not a contribution to peace, but rather to this law feed hate and nationalism because Serbia has not faced its dark past. Serbia still has constant conflicts with its neighbours from Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia to BiH and Croatia. Croatia, as a member of the EU and NATO, should encourage the Republic of Serbia to democratisation, and this necessarily means facing war crimes and the aggressor role Serbia played. For this reason, Serbia must compensate Croatia for the war damage done, as well as Serbs of civilians who died in the war. It is precisely Croatia that needs to make a register of civil victims of war both in the occupied area and force Serbia to deprive these people. Today's Government of Croatia is doing test rabbits, with which right. Who gave you the mandate for that? Croatia is a unique country in the world that pays its aggressors. All of you who raise your hand for this law know that you will eventually file an account for this anti-civilization and harmful law. Only on the basis of a clean account policy can we build polite, social and friendly relations with our neighbors. That's why I call on every MP to resist the party's path and vote against this unfair, unethical, immoral and above all harmful law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54290	The next debate will be the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54291	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The respected ministers with their associates, respected colleagues and colleagues are here before us a bill that we can see that in the first reading, it has caused a number of emotions today. I believe this, with the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, is one of the important laws which in fact address the consequences of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia and all the sufferings we have experienced. Bringing such a unique normative framework for the category of civilian victims of the Homeland War is good because so far we have had 12 amendments to the law that is in force and it certainly does not contribute to legal certainty. This law has increased the scope of rights for this category of civilian victims, and it is particularly important that members of the missing citizens of the Homeland War are allowed, their families, to use the right to a family disability before a missing person is declared dead. I think that part of the improvement applies to a number of cases, and I think that's why this step that's been taken in this law is very significant. It is also regarding the recognition of the right to a family disability this abolished obstacle regarding the fact that it cannot have a family disability if you are employed, have a trade or are retired which is also an improvement in relation to the current situation. This proposal for the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War has recognised the rights, the numerous rights in a way that has also increased their scope in relation to the current situation, which certainly contributes to the better position of civilian victims from the Homeland War and thus the state wanted to make them a satisfaction deserved and to the existing situation that has been improving their status in recent years. However, what I would also like to point out is that surely all of us want to make a better and regulatoryly regulated law and I think there are provisions, which is the provision of Article 9 and the provision of Article 73 to Article 75, to which I have tabled an amendment for the reasons that I believe can be better regulated normably in order to be as precise as possible and to avoid the creation of certain legal uncertainty, and in this way to give people or officials who are going to carry out the first-degree procedure much clearer guidance in which they evaluate the evidence that is relevant for the recognition of these rights. In fact, Article 9 provides for a new circumstance for the loss as a basis for recognition of status, which is very significant because all other rights are exercised from status, recognised status. In such a way, a provision is quite broadly interpreted and I believe that for this reason it is better arranged to achieve as good legal certainty as possible. As regards Articles 73, 74 and 75, I also consider that, as regards Articles 73, 75, it is essentially an surplus because paragraph 2 is prescribed by means of a statement proving the circumstances of the injury, which is a confirmation of the circumstances of the suffering and medical documentation as well as in the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Lawyers, where the circumstances of the victims are also regulated in the same manner as the confirmation of the circumstances of the suffering and medical documentation. I must also say that this paragraph 3 leads to an inconclusion in order to prove these circumstances by some other means. I must point out that this is not even allowed by subormative acts, such as regulations, to prescribe evidence which then determines the circumstances and facts related to the injury. So for this reason, I would like to stress that with this kind of arrangement that I have proposed in the amendments, I think that a normative improvement of the bill would be made, which I think is our goal. I believe that this law goes in favor of civilian victims, that it should be brought in as large as possible. Consensus, especially that for him should all be those in society [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and especially Croatian defenders. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54292	The Honorable representative of Ante Pracachin will now speak, no, giving up, thank you. Then the esteemed representative Marin Chickenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54293	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of the Medved, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, on October 5, 1991, 15-year-old Josip from Novska, fed his pigeons, lost his life in the attack on the JNA air. On Christmas that same year, he had nine months of Ante from Zadar, lost his legs, his mother. We are today discussing the final proposal of the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, with us and the families of the victims with us are members of the Association of Croatian Civil Victims from the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia. By welcoming them and giving them deep respect, I have a need to express my regret because I do not know how they understood this debate about the law when more time is devoted to those who are listed in Article 1(3), not those for whom they came to this Croatian Parliament today. I was struck by the responsibility and honorary duty to read their letter to you on their behalf members of the Association of Croatian Civil Victims from the Homeland War Croatia. Dear parliamentary representatives, the civilian victims of the Homeland War address you with faith and hope and full confidence that we all share the same values as the citizens of this country. Values of respect for human dignity, equality, justice as well as respect for and respect for human rights. The draft bill in front of you may be just another one in the sea of laws that you will read, which you will discuss and eventually vote on. For the civilian victims of the Homeland War, this law is the last and only chance of acknowledging their true sacrifice before which everyone has so far remained blind, deaf and dumb. For the mothers of the dead children, for the families of the dead and the missing civilians, for the disabled, this law is a statement of respect and belonging to our country, a statement of importance to their victim and a contribution to the creation of the free and independent Republic of Croatia as we live today. For them it is all, but not just a piece of paper that will give them certain rights, rights that are not blessed because the only true grace would be to give them back their family members and their body parts. Who are these people, their fates and lives that you will decide on? Who are and what do you truly know about their problems and difficult life stories before you simply, by one move, raise your hand for or against? Have you ever met them and how many times? Do you know or do you just assume? The parents are one, two, three dead children that no law can bring back. The wounded civilians, civilians wounded as minor children, families of the dead and families of the missing as well as prisoners of Serb concentration camps. People are the ones who saw the ugliest scenes of war faced with death and even harder to live after all the loss, left to themselves. Their struggle didn't stop with the war, it continued more than 20 years after. It's a fight that no one but them knows, and some even challenge. In these 25 years since the completion of the Civil Victims' work, nothing has changed. Time stops and it doesn't go away. Unfortunately, many of you have never heard any of their stories, never laid a flower beneath the monuments of the dead children in the Homeland War, never met these families, and there lies the root of the misunderstanding and the ignorance of the victim they endured. There is also the root of all those inappropriate words spoken in the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54294	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms of Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54295	Dear colleague, dear colleague, this is an opportunity for you to read this letter to the end in your reply to my reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54296	Thank you very much, colleague. I'll continue reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54297	Your Honor, I can give you my word here. Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54298	I read the words of those of this law. Discussing the first reading of this law, unfortunately, many of you have fired bullets of ugly words once again in peace, firing directly at once again the civilian victims of the Homeland War. Now that this law is in front of you again consider the fact that a mother who has lost one or more children listens to you, think that you are not alone, standing in front of people and representing those you decide on. Think truly with the seriousness of not voting for the paper that is before you but with it you determine the fates and human lives with your own hand you recognize or trample someone's right to dignity. Moreover, consider that you are here and on behalf of those who are no longer present and on behalf of their families because this country is created on that sacrifice and owes that same sacrifice. The rest of the letter I'm guessing all the MPs will get into their mailboxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54299	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54300	Thank you very much. Here in these late hours I can once again say that the first of my amendment colleagues who read the letter that you know the association was to find some money for the first time in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here is my colleague Djakic, president of HVIDRA, Mr. Deur, for the first time in 2016 when I first met him from the Office of the President of the former office of Stjepan Mesic, i.e. moved to the 600,000 kuna association, which is insignificant. Civilian victims deserve this law. He's 25 years old, 30 years old. I have a friend, I said at first I lost both legs. However, it is controversial. Here's in my amendment for asking to make a register, i.e. to be bound by an aggressor register. What's the matter? Here's your line. What's the matter with that? My friend, you've just read a letter. Is there anything in the matter with the Minister, the Secretary of State? The registry of the aggressor. What is disputed is that those who were civil servants in the SAO province were supporters of their Chetnik army who did this? It is not disputed for me that civilian victims on either side of the area occupied, whether in Croatia's free territory to exercise this right? What's the matter with this amendment? Here. That we have a register. Is your colleague Billic in any dispute? Anything that's disputed that we have an amendment, to make a register of Chetniks because of the great Serb aggression that made this the women who are following it here. Who's responsible for that? Is it big-serb aggression or not? How was it just before my colleague Simičević's name so I wouldn't make a mistake, so I wouldn't insult him saying there wouldn't be an aggressor. So who says there won't be an aggressor? The Croatian government was elected by the people, the parliament was elected by the people and the SDSS chose by the government among other things, and in this SDSS, Stanimirovic, who played a significant role in occupied Vukovar, a significant role in the Chetnik movement, is very important. He chose the government among other things, and the people chose MPs. This law is late and in this law there is only one missing register to be, so it is bound by this law to have a registry of aggressors. And the problem is solved, very simple. I don't see that problem. And I would like to point out once again that all the victims deserve to have their families drink too, deserve to have the Croatian state repay them and there is no dispute about it without that letter and with that letter. Because I know these people victims of civilian victims of the Homeland War or rather than the great-Serb aggression that we often forget to say. And here it's simple, simple one amendment along with other amendments to limit people who can pass. But this is the simplest we can put in. And I gave that amendment myself. Registrar of aggressors, great Serbs. And that this law does not apply to these people. It's very simple. And problem solved. I don't think the Ministers here would have a problem with me. Both humans and God and a civilian sacrifice deserve that no matter what nationality they are. I think I made myself perfectly clear. The registry of aggressors, Chetniks, slaughterers, executioners, as I point out once again that war damage must be paid by Serbia regardless of Orban, his calling and conditions cannot enter the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54301	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Chicken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54302	Thank you very much, Vice President. What's a controversial fellow Bull? This is a photograph of the Old Thieves in 1991 when these aggressors whose register you're calling were not sacred nor wood, let alone the chapel of St. Cross. These streets of those days in the trench, not in the commodity of the constituency chair, were Tomo Bear. What is disputed that a man with such a war experience who was on all the first lines from Novska to Kostanica in 1991 proposes the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War by proposing the best in the first article, indicating who those who were committing aggression to the Republic of Croatia were? Who are those who mutilated the predator to unrecognizable?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54303	Thank you. Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54304	Thank you very much. Respecting Tom Bear, but no supporter from SDSS Stanimirovic and respecting him as a man and as a defender and everything he and his family gave. At the same time, here soon will be the year I was alone in Vrlica as a young man in rabatins, the same picture, the same victim even worse. Victims with special developmental difficulties, children who were left at Vrlica in the institution, I saw it all with my own eyes as a young man and what Mladic was doing. But we little defenders, we're not big, little people were living with these people at the same time and looking at those pictures, but Chetniks have to have their own register, we have to have brushes in the register, we have velkoser Serbs. And that's the beginning and the end of the story. This isn't about Tommy Bear. as a man. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54305	He will now speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54306	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, here we are almost entered into a new day. Dear colleague Pilletić I am a child of Vukovar, I spent the Homeland War well in Vukovar, I was 10 years old then and I remember how it was in Vukovar in '91. A year. If it hadn't been for Tomislav Mercep Vukovar, he'd probably have been busy by the 5th month, and an unprecedented massacre was committed over the Croatian population. And he hit the foundations of the city of Vukovar's defense. Today, Serbian political representatives are also primarily talking about several names that tragically ended up as civilians in the 6th and 7th month. Now I'm going to tell you what kind of civilians they are. It's about civilians collecting weapons in their basements in the 5th, 6th and 7th months to share them with their soldiers who were supposed to attack us Croats. It's about civilians who had radio connections in their basements, who were reporting where our positions were. It is about civilians who have been gathering humanitarian aid as the endangered Serbs in the Krajina area have said, and these Croats do not have to worry, they will take care of Vukovar after a brief procedure. That's what civilians are about. And now, under that law, you will exercise your rights. And they were the ringleaders of the great Serb rebellion in the area of Vukovar and Eastern Slavonia. And colleague Jeckov told the truth here three months ago. This law will introduce justice, prisoners in Lora who were nothing more than rebels who received great Serb compensation, which is confirmed by Articles 9, where it says in paragraph d), excuse paragraph (a) that a civilian disabled from the Homeland War is considered a person whose organism is damaged by imprisonment in a camp, prison or another enemy facility, and at the end of other events is deprived of freedom in relation to the circumstances of the Homeland War, which is Laura. And that's exactly what you're talking about. And they will just make it through this law that part of those who planned a great Serb rebellion, will you see the time will show, realize the rights, and we will feel it first in Vukovar. Every true civilian, every child who lost his life in the Homeland War, has the right to obtain permanent rights from the Croatian state and should have been won 20 years ago by Croats, Serbs, Hungarians, Roma, but true civilians. But on the other hand, you'll only have the least real civilians and you'll get through this law whether you want to admit it or not. As far as you've managed to get him through some fuses, there is still a modulus for individuals to achieve certain benefits of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54307	The next one will speak finally on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I leave with my closing statement, I would only comment that there is a final verdict in the case of Laura, and these are found guilty of war crimes against the civilian population. For all those who have mentioned Laura today, this is therefore the final judgment of the Croatian judiciary. And at the end of this debate, I will once again warn of possible improvements to this law in order to be fair and applicable indeed to all civilian victims. It is necessary in preamble and in Article 1 to base the law first on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in which the principles of equality and anti-discrimination are incorporated into the foundations of our rule of law and the Constitution. It is also important to comply with all applicable international humanitarian legal conventions in order to increase the legitimacy of this important law. And why are we stressing it so much? Because this law gives us a chance not to tell the difference between victims who were killed by enemy forces and those who were killed by individuals on our part by HV, HVO and paramilitary troops. We've given examples of civilian victims in the first reading of this Law that are equally injured, but this law does not recognize them in the same way. Is it possible that we will continue to pursue unfair and discriminatory relations on national grounds. A civilian victim is a civilian victim no matter what nationality or national minority belongs to. It is a citizen or citizen who found themselves in the wind of a war conflict and did not participate in war operations in any way. They were just trying to survive war horrors. Do we have the right to share civilian casualties 25 years after the war? All those who were killed as civilians in war operations, attacks, various camps and torture camps have the same right to be represented in this law. It is also necessary to facilitate the completion of the articles of evidence and to extend the deadlines for this proof of the status of a civilian victim. I will quote Professor Renat Matic, a sociologist who is also a Croatian defender, who was part of round table 8. June in the organization of community associations of civilian victims in the Homeland War. He says he admits to anyone who has suffered some experience especially that difficult, tragic or incorrigible experience for which he is not guilty is the only basis for building the future of every society. Without that recognition, not only one social group suffers in this case the wartime civilian victims of the Homeland War, but the whole society is significantly slowing down in building democratic social relations and its own future." So by acknowledging all but all victims of a civilian victim, the victims are given guarantees of a better and fairer society. Let's not make new differences and divisions, be just and solid. Yes, victims of civilian casualties have waited too long for this law. But I dare say all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve a fairer and more solid society in which all citizens would be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54309	Now, a respected representative, Josip Djakic, will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go. He's giving up. So he will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Final Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54310	Here in half the night on such important topics may not be appropriate, here's what's there. In the end, I would just point out on behalf of the club that the civilian victims of great Serbian aggression should have long ago been, had their own law, had a single law and had their rights and in this sense we support it. However, here we are looking for once again and we have given the amendment mainly to those who supported the former SAO landscape and Chetniks, the large-serb aggression in our area, which is the cause of all these evils that happened in this area and in our homeland. We have an amendment meaning which is very important, and that's by our list, i.e. the list of the aggressors, the registry of the aggressors that was attached, the component of this law or the obligation of the Ministry and the Croatian Government to make this, means the list and that we know who these people are finally who they are, and not that we have them in governments as secretaries today. They were high-quality, precise artillery that killed our civilians, and now they run Plitvice Lakes and these restaurants. I think they run through the ministry as secretaries of the ministry. There's some kind of Mile cannon, mentioning it as an artilleryman very high-quality. Also, it is very important and very important because simply the victim must not be equated with the aggressor. In any case, mainly victims of civilians no matter where they were from in the Homeland War or whether they were civilians in the occupied area or were civilians in the area that was free during the Homeland War, regardless of nationality, religion, attitudes, they deserve to have certain rights by law. Simply what we're looking for is the register of aggressors of great Serb aggression in the Republic of Serbia because many have made it through which today they manage very large resolutions within the government today, and therefore justified this suspicion that the aggressors could achieve these rights that they don't deserve. So we've given a solution, we've been constructive, and I believe that the Minister and the Ministry can respect this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54311	And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54312	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to thank you for, especially those of you who stayed here exactly half the night and patiently listened to the whole debate. In a special way, I want to thank the families of the Alliance of the Family of Civil Victims of the Homeland War who have been following us here since the early morning here. In the opening statement, by presenting the final draft of the law, I have also shown both the call and the intention and the desire and the desire to focus on the content of the law to focus on an affirmative approach to the adoption of this important law 26 years after the release of the homeland, 30 years since the start of the Homeland War. Unfortunately, I am saddened by the fact and the knowledge that I have heard here most of the time about something that is not the content of this law, about something that is not the subject of this law, and what I said in the opening statement that it excludes this law and the efforts that have been made to create the assumption that the civilian victims of the Homeland War get their satisfaction and that they are valorised from Croatian societies, valued as they deserve it. Unfortunately, this is evidence that around the law around which politicization and politicization should be at the very least carried out that today the same thing has happened here. It was similar, however, that we witnessed in 2017 with the Law on Croatian defenders where there were threats that we would bring down the state budget, that there would be a million Croatian wartime military invalids, etc. It was similar with the law on missing people that we brought for the first time, brought it in, was passed by our government, or by the Croatian Parliament on the Croatian Government's proposal with most HDZ. So it will be this time, we will bring my dear civilian victims of the Homeland War, members of the family, and we will pass this law and circle the normative aspect that regulates the issue of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-30-0.u54313	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are also finishing our work today and will continue it today on Thursday 1st July at 9:30. The first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 147. I wish you a pleasant rest of the night. Session interrupted at 12:04 p.m.
