ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u42822	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so inflation accelerated growth in April this year and increased by 2.1%, and this is also the biggest annual jump in nearly 3 years. The inflation case jumped by 1.2% in March and a month earlier by 0.3% compared to the same period last year. Croatia has not recovered from a crown that has proved to be an unpredictable enemy. This unknown enemy has entered all the pores of society completely changed our lives and our lifestyle. And the increase in consumer prices at the annual level can also be linked to the crown. Therefore, according to the arguments addressed, the course of the entire summer could also take place. It is also important to consider that we do not yet know what we can expect from the tourist season ahead of us and what is, as well as everything else that has to do with this global crisis, uncertain. Inflation is based on the claims made primarily on the result of strong price increases within the transport category and 25.1% of the price hikes in fuel and oil. The growth experts attribute to a largely higher price of crude oil compared to the same month last year when the barrel of oil cost 27 dollars, while it now stands at $65, which is only one in a series of negative trends that contribute to price hikes. Experts expect this negative trend to continue so that with oil prices rising, food prices could rise especially in the next few months. These movements are followed by movements at EU level, and it is expected that the rise in transport and fuel prices will also affect consumer baskets. So in the summer period ahead, we can expect a new rise in the price of alcoholic beverages and tobacco up to 5%. In addition, housing prices are expected to rise, so water, electricity, gas and other fuels. Prices of non-alcoholic beverages are expected to rise as well as the price of clothing and shoes. The price of bread and cereals is expected to rise. Oil prices will grow, fats will grow, milk prices and dairy products will rise on the shelves of our shops. The period ahead of us is expected to see a new wave of medical services gathered by 4% already in April. Prices of catering and postal services will also be raised. There is also a global fear of unwanted consumer prices and interest rates. Data from the State Statistics Institute show that food and non-alcoholic beverages in our country have not yet affected inflation, however, among trade unionists and citizens there are still stories of rising sugar, oil and hygiene needs. What consumers have noticed does not deny even in shopping centres, but they attribute it to seasonal price increases. However, according to the witnesses, the retail price of daily products has increased, mainly in terms of cigarettes prices. It is also possible to notice a slightly higher price of sugar on the shelves of the trade chains, as well as all grain products. The first days of summer are expected to increase the prices of beer that will be felt, and in parallel there is a new wave of collection of hygienic supplies. The prices of corn, hay, straw and sunflowers will grow, which could also be reflected in meat and milk processing prices. What is also very concerned by the experts now, but of course our citizens are also very concerned by the fact that we are already feeling a fall in the purchasing power of our citizens. It's visible, and traffic is falling, and we're growing public debt. Inflation thus becomes a growing problem in some sectors that Croatia will have difficulty dealing with, and if the tourist season fails, we will have a black and heavy autumn that many will have a hard time with financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u42823	You, too. It is now up to Mr. Bojan Glavasevic, who will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u42926	The executioner from Bosnia or... in the original, that's what the BBC called one who was sentenced two days ago to life imprisonment for genocide and ethnic cleansing of Bosniaks and Croats from Bosnia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't say his name because his own name, the right to his own name, he lost with his humanity, and he lost her because he committed a crime against humanity. In his famous speech to some other generals, Vlado Gotovac says, because whoever kills other people's children has no children. Because he who mourns other people's mothers doesn't have a mother. For he who destroys other people's homes has no home. The generals must therefore know that there are no mothers or children or homes on this earth for them. He will die in the wilderness of his dead heart. They'll be embarrassed by their children for losing love. They will be ashamed of their wives for being the murderers of other people's children, ashamed of their families for destroying other people's families. Paraphrasing the Cashman, who commits a crime against humanity, there is no humanity. And that's why I deny that inhumane the right to his human name and refuse to say it here. The victims of Bosnian justice waited 26 years because so much time had passed since that terrible July 1995 until the final sentence of life. The justice that comes late is better than justice that never comes. But the taste of such justice is not sweet, it turns into ashes in its mouth. I say this as the grandson of a man who survived Omar, Manoch and Trnopolje. Like the son of a man killed on the Sheepchare. As a brother in the spirit of all whom the war has made to the victims of this executioner, one day sentenced to life imprisonment and all others. Like someone who's still waiting for justice. After the verdict, many said, it never happened again and immediately after that, to God diplomatically, and in fact cowardly, they talked about the Srebrenica massacre, although genocide is mentioned several times in the verdict. Some of them didn't surprise me, and some of them did. This was done by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, done by Charles Michel, EU President of the Council. Why did they do it like that, we can assume. And educated. But it doesn't really matter. The important thing is that they hit the face of all the victims of the Srebrenica genocide. It's cowardly and it's worth the contempt. This reduces and relativizes the fear of genocide. But this speech, my colleagues and colleagues from the Club of Representatives and representatives of the Green-Left bloc, we didn't want to dedicate to either an inhuman or a major politician whose courage and moral weight are shooting under the burden of a word that describes the truth. We wanted to dedicate this speech to all those who know that in this world there is not enough punishment, there is no sweet taste of justice, whose wounds are still open. The message we want to send is that we will never give up on transitional justice. That the search for the perpetrators of war crimes will never stop. And most importantly, we'll never forget the victims and take care of them. It's our obligation to the truth. It's our obligation to humanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u42927	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u42928	... Last week, the 4th session of the 2nd meeting of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held outside Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The council consists of elected representatives of Croatian communities living around the world, from our neighbouring BiH to New Zealand. I have participated in the work of this body since the first session of 2016. Today, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I am holding the necessary information to the Assembly on the results of this session and the recommendations of the Council. I want to highlight what the Croats in the world, our global Croatian family today sees as important. In the shortest lines, Croatian emigration is looking for ways and ways to connect best and stay connected to Croatia. They ask Croatia for an answer on how best to achieve it. In the 1990s, it was clear, it was a support for the creation and defence of a sovereign and independent Croatian state. Today the needs of another nature and possibilities are far more numerous. The adoption of a National Plan for the Development of Croatia's Relations and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has been announced, including representatives of the Council of the Government. After a two-day debate, it was crystallized that our compatriots consider it most important today. In the first row, they singled out the position of Croats in BiH. Although some in the Republic of Croatia do not always see the meaning, the importance and symbolism of the constitutional obligation that the Republic of Croatia has towards the Croatian people in that country, Croats outside Croatia understand it very much. They simply and unanimously support BiH's Euro-Atlantic path because it is recognised as the only way that can ensure not only equality but also the survival of Croats in BiH. Their awareness of this support reminds us of the early 1990s when the Croatian people in Croatia fought for their political rights. Thanks to the unity and joint efforts of the emigrated and homeland of Croatia in the 1990s, we have chosen to do so. Today, we need to help the Croats in BiH exercise their political rights in that country. As a well-intentioned neighbour and as an EU Member State, Croatia is aware of the importance of European integration of BH and this is important not only for BiH but also for the EU. The support in this effort is a unanimous parliament, government and other state institutions and we can be proud of this goal as a country that we share with many Croats around the world is the same consciousness and the same goal they bear today is for course and care for the Croats in BiH. The second topic focused on the debate was the rights of the Croatian minority who lives in 12 European states with the emphasis of Croatians in Vojvodina or the Republic of Serbia and Croatian rights in Boka Kotorska or Montenegro. All agreed that the challenges facing these Croatians today require adequate support from the Republic of Croatia in political, cultural, economic, educational, as well as in any other sense. All members of the council expressed satisfaction with the amendment of the Law on Croatian Citizenship where we managed to bring together better legal solutions for Croats living outside Croatia. They praised the co-operation with the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and proposed new ideas to improve further work. There have been many more topics, such as proposals for the way Croats vote abroad, better integration, learning Croatian language, studying the second and third generations of Croats in Croatia, etc., all this gives us the right to believe that the time that comes brings new ideas and opens up numerous opportunities. This has already been shown by young generations around the world who today connect faster, more successful and better, and we will stand and support them in achieving their goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43014	Ms. Anka Mrak Taritaš will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43015	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we often live at a time of great events whether it is good or bad things we are not aware of until the end of their historical importance or how they will remain recorded for the next generations. Perhaps the most significant painting left behind by the Zagreb earthquake in 1880 is the image of the restored Zagreb cathedral, which emerged in the form of today's basic project by Friedrich von Schmidt, and ended with the seal of Herman Bolle, especially two neootic towers which are one of the symbols of Zagreb. There were unfortunately other disasters in Zagreb, a picture that still symbolizes the large flood of 1964 is a picture of hundreds and thousands of Zagrebers who have engaged in helping in flooded parts of the city. We've all seen all these black white pictures and boats in the water between houses and buildings, trucks and cars passing through the water transporting people and things. What I'm interested in is a picture that will remain for future generations since the 2020 earthquake in Zagreb, and it seems to me more and more that the time is coming that shame is the only image that can remain. The relationship to recovery after the earthquake is one of the biggest shame Croatia has ever experienced and I am increasingly surprised that the prime minister and his ministers dare to show themselves before people afterwards. Today it's 445 days since the earthquake and there's been one big thing that's amazing, the first house collapses. And another one will collapse in a few days, and for the third for which the crash is announced, we are no longer so sure about how and when it will be because to quote the crash coordinator from the media as he said this morning, it needs to be done with project documentation because it's a slightly more complex case since it's leaned on another building. And there, that's the result after almost a year and a half. After the flood in County Posavina, 6 settlements were one of them in 13 months, I repeat, in 13 months we restored 1089 residential buildings of which 288 were completely rebuilt and 1201 buildings were renovated on the basis of issued solutions and paid money. We have reconstructed, reconstructed four health buildings, 16 schools and sports halls, 4 sports buildings and 14 social homes. And while we were at the destruction of the first house in Zagreb before we could build any of it and rebuild we crashed and removed 487 buildings. Think about those numbers. So almost 500 facilities were removed, and 2300 were renovated and built at a shorter time than Plenkovic and the team were supposed to bring in a buffer for the demolition of the first house in Zagreb. And those of us who did the restoration of Gunja are attacked by that, and that's the biggest and most successful restoration, and it's constantly trying to get through the mud with lies, and everyone who wants to see everything is clear. The reconstruction of Zagreb, as well as Banija/Banovine, is one of the biggest shames of this country and goes primarily to the prime minister who replaces the lack of ability with excess haughtiness. Our Club of the Centre and GLAS voted against the Law on Reconstruction, not because we were bad, but because the law is bad and impregnable. And unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately, we proved to be right. Today may be the first house to be torn down, but these people still have no idea what kind of replacement houses will be built, whether they will be built at all, by what model and in what form. What we already know is that this year there won't be a single new house because the building has its own legality, and the pace we're starting is nothing. It's a picture that stays, people who will live for years in containers, apartments and houses that won't be restored for years. And the picture of the restoration is a real picture of the shame of Andrej Plenkovic and his incompetent government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43016	Thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43085	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croats kneel only before the dear God, and all those who think that they will kneel before someone or something, let them know that this will not happen. So, these days, there's a lot of current issues about the EUR and kneeling before the match in support of an organization called Black Lives Matter BLM, it's a single organization that I can freely call a racist organization and that doesn't make any difference with any other organisations in which they march almost exclusively white. At the same time in America, we've got some moves like Proud Boys, Blue Lives Matter, and no one thinks they're kneeling in support of these organizations. The UEFA itself always avoids some kind of politicisation or political theme and I don't know why in this case this organization, the controversial organisation that has been responsible for the devastation, the destruction of American cities over the past year and more. And why today in Europe, Europeans must pay their respects and support to one I will call it a racist organization again. Of course, in Croatia, I hope that no one is for racism and discrimination, so neither am I, of course not even the attitude of Croatian sovereigns at all, but the insane behaviour of a global, global dictatorship of Europeans that today almost forces representatives of national teams, football teams to kneel in support of an organisation is not going to pass. Perhaps this is one proposal for all European teams on the EURU. Let them put their hands on their hearts before each game or embrace each other, for example. in support or a reminder of the victims of Vukovar, on the victims of Skabrnje, let them raise their high hands in the air in support of the unborn or other initiative and I don't see why any initiative, and for me, the extremely controversial Black Lives Matter, would have priority over some other organizations and movements. So the Croats kneel only before the dear God and before anyone else. And let Europe remember and know. And from this place I can give full support to our national species to do what she did and to the match with Belgium. Let him stand, and perhaps let the English call in a few days to mark and remember in some way the sacrifice given by the Croats for their country's freedom, and that sacrifice never a European kneeled, he did not remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43178	Mrs. Devereaux. Vice-President Sabina Glasovac will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. After a year of working under pandemic conditions we enter the last 7 days of the school year, the state's graduation is under way. This year, I believe everyone was difficult, especially for those in the education and education system, but much less difficult than before when all parents and students and teachers and teachers had a quick course of online teaching and learning in conditions in which they had not been found so far. What I hope this year's graduates will succeed in enrolling all the desired colleges, preferably those who are their first choice, and for us as a state, to ensure objectivity and to ensure credibility because we know that the examination of the state's graduation is one of the few mechanisms for ensuring the quality of education where all students decide on equal terms at the same time, in a way, to pass the exam that will greatly determine their future. And the key institution for the implementation of the state graduation that needs to ensure this credibility and objectivity is the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Does the National Center do that? The National Centre, after conducting the national graduation last autumn, made a precedent where some people took the right to receive 9 students with points they did not deserve and thus put all other students in an unfavourable position. Because no one at the national centre was responsible for this, two honorable men resigned from the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. The government has resolved them and has appointed new members. Meanwhile, the director who refused to leave first eventually left the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. According to some, she insisted that she be assured that she would leave, but that she would be assured that she would find another job. I don't know what happened to her fate, and Andrej Plenkovic guaranteed it, but we'll find out soon enough. In the meantime, he was appointed V.D. Director of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, Mr Filipovic, who was head of the Education and Education Agency for quite a number of years after being replaced during the government of Zoran Milanovic, went to work in one of the largest, one of the major publishing houses. However, this is not the subject of my debate today, and what exactly am I trying to say? The National Centre should work and learn on its mistakes and not repeat what happened last year at this national graduation, so all students must have equal conditions, equal access and no longer be allowed to repeat that with their power of authority someone gives points for passing, thereby damaging other students. It's never happened, and I hope it's just one bad episode in this story. However, the national centre should also perfect another model of external evaluation of education and throughout secondary education in order for pupils and their parents to receive feedback, there are models, all of which is written in the strategy of education, science and technology. However, the National Centre deals with how to change the law that will very quickly come here to the Assembly, in front of us parliamentary representatives and how, in fact, through that law, to disenfranchise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HS, to put everything under the hat of the ministry, to secure a place, another post of assistant director, because it is now very important to arrest someone there and change the conditions for selecting the directors who should follow after the term of office of the existing V.d. in a way that through this law which was in public consultation or draft law, the person who is to run the centre should be someone who is 10 years old. work experience in education, which has been a bore, but they add science. I'm curious about who this competition is for and who we're going to have to amend the HS Act for. What I'm protesting here is that I'd rather have the national centre filed its reports on HS, so on their pages you don't have any financial reports, it's the last one from 2018. the last is from 2019, the last financial report and the notes referred to in 2018. The Committee on Education, Education, Science and Culture in HS is obliged to submit a report once a year, I don't remember how many years they haven't done it. Gentlemen, that is not how you do it, you are working on improving the quality of education in the Republic of Croatia, not creating a framework for new entanglements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43180	Time, thank you very much. We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Nino Rasdic in the name of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43369	Today, 28 years ago, 10. In June 1993, a grenade fired from the BiH army's position at the children's playground in the Croatian enclave of Central Bosnia surrounded by Muslim forces killed eight children. There was a time of truce, and the children dared to go to the playground. Five died immediately, three succumbed to the consequences of severe wounding in the next days. The names of these children are Sanja and Milan Garić, Dragan Ramljak, Drazen Cečura, Boris Antičević, Sanja Križanovic and brother and sister Augustina and Velimir Grebenar. No one was responsible for the crime in The Hague or before the BiH courts. Why? Why probably 90% of people in Croatia have never heard of this terrible crime against children in the Knights. Is it because children were Croatian nationalities, and this did not fit the Croatian narrative as aggressors in Central Bosnia even though they were more numerous and in a complete environment? Some injustices in this world can never be corrected, it is minimum that on the day of their murder in HS at least their names are heard. Yesterday, it was legally sentenced to life imprisonment by Ratko Mladic, that someone was in '91. while committing crimes in Croatia or '95. While his career culminated in crimes in BiH, he said he would be sentenced to life imprisonment, we would be thrilled, but if they had added that it would not happen in '96 or '97 or 2000, but in the future, in the long 2021, we would not be satisfied. After all, there remains a trail of bitterness and knowledge that despite the most strictly anticipated punishment for catharsis, the Hague court has not completed its basic tasks. The Hague court explicitly tasked itself with revealing the truth about the wars of the 1990s. The self-proclaimed task of establishing the truth by the international court implies that players on the ground are unable to do so on their own, so The Hague will learn better about the war in Croatia than Croatia, for example. I've already agreed to such a game self-indulgent. We acknowledge that our truth is partial and biased while The Hague is like God's whole and objective. The second no less important task of The Hague court was to restore justice. But who should be responsible for the crimes? Direct perpetrators, employers, policy makers who created a context for crimes. Serbian media often gather years of prison that the Hague court has so far said, which turns out to be far the most condemned Serbs, but which Serbs. It shows why the prosecution is the most problematic part of The Hague court. The indictments went to criminalise the Serbian leadership in BiH and Croatia but was amnested by Belgrade, the top of Yugoslavia and the top of the JNA. For example, why generals Kadjevic and Adzic are not charged. After the Precan Serbs, the second largest culprit in the number of years won is Croatia's leadership in BiH. It falls into the eyes that the crimes of the BiH Army have been stopped at the lowest perpetrators, it has not gone to the top of the road to Ali Izetbegovic while the crimes committed by members of the HVO have in all ways sought to establish a line of responsibility to the highest levels i.e. to what was prepared by the original Hague construction of a joint criminal enterprise. It's enough to mention a case of murdered children in the Knights that no one was responsible for. The Hague court was in some situations extremely slow, so some trials lasted 14 years. In some cases, irresponsibly rapid, so the Krupreskovic brothers were explicitly sentenced to 10 years for a crime in Ahmić to be completely freed after more than 4 years, they did not receive any compensation or catch of a man named Stipe Alilovic, in '92. He went from middle Bosnia to abroad not at all, so they accuse him, and then after that, after that, they withdraw. A special story is to use the court as a means of political modeling in customer countries. The Hague has been blackmailed, broken by political leadership, aided the international community's loved ones within the political struggles. And how much international courts can restore faith to the right speaks for example enough that at the same time the United States pressured Croatia to co-operate with The Hague court to seek an exception for their citizens from the exemption to the international war crimes court. Then how to respect such judgments and such justice. Generally, the victims of Ratko Mladic's policy remain comforted that instead of a military nursing home in Cačka or Povorevac, he will spend the rest of his old age and sick days in some more comfortable European prison watching the same channels and solving the same puzzles without thinking that in the end God's only fair judgment would make it quite unsustainable. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43370	Thank you, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic, who will perform as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43488	Good afternoon to all, especially workers and workers of Podravka, who are not spoken of too much here. Since when did the “Podravka” head Martina Dalic, former economy minister and vice president of the previous meeting of the Plenkovic government, who stepped down because of the “Hotmail” affair, many wonder whether the sale of “Podravka” or whether the government intends to sell the equity stake in “Podravka”? The National Recovery and Resistance Plan has determined that up to the end of 2023, it will offer a minimum of 150 companies whose current nominal value is around 850 million kuna. Although current sales are being denied before the impression is that the government has only delayed the sale for a very close future for the time being. Why would this company sell out? In the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, I literally quote "there are no solid arguments for state ownership of enterprises". This implies that there are strong arguments for the sale of state property over companies. Perhaps we can find such arguments in the privatisation of INA on its knees even though at the time of privatisation it was stronger than MOL and there were calculations that INA could privatise MOL. Can we find arguments for the privatisation of the oil shipyard or Brodotrogira or Krasa or any industry we privatized? Since the NPOO debate has not been conducted, this is imposed as a self-explanatory framework. The NPOO states that privatisation and sale of state assets are a strategic priority. A series of arguments is against the sale of Podravka. But first, it's a highly profitable company. In the first quarter of this year alone, it had a net profit of 109 million kuna, so if this continued until the end of the year, it could be expected to be more than 400 million kuna, each year it had about 200 million. The “Podravka” and “Podravka” modernisation are being invested, the plant in Varazdin is being restored, solar plants are being installed, etc. "Podravka" can in short take over someone or to shut down and take over the market or to make a profit, which is usually done by even greater internal devaluation, by reducing wages and firing, which is the fastest way to increase profits. By the way, in Podravka, workers work for poor wages, in the plant they only amount to about 4,000 kuna, the average salary is 7,600 kuna, but this is because the average raises the manager's wages that we hear cross over over 100,000 kuna per month. There is room for salary increases, so each worker would still have more than 100 million kuna net earnings in the first quarter. Therefore, the owners of Podravka and pension funds in the hands of foreign banks and the Republic of Croatia as the largest shareholder with 25.5 shares should have in the interest that workers have higher salaries because more than that would then be paid into pension funds. But unfortunately, when I asked representatives of pension funds for salaries in Podravka yesterday on the Labour Committee, I received the answer that this is not something they interfere with. The question is, who do those who should protect the interests of workers work for, and thus all of us? There is a reason behind the irrational sale that the state is, of course, a bad master. Many examples deny it, Italy has a share in "Fincanteria", the largest Italian shipbuilding giant, France has shares in shipyards, as well as in Peugeot, the German state holds stakes in "Volkswagen", after all German "Telekom" holds Croatian "Telecom". If the German state is able to own ownership of the Croatian firm then it is possible that the Croatian state has ownership of the Croatian firm. But of course HDZ, on the one hand, advocates the argument of the country's bad economy, on the other hand, the shares of profitable companies are sold to HDZ people. As they represent a country that is a bad master, they buy their own shares as is the case with Martin Dalic, who, we remind, also participated in the development of the National Development Strategy as a consultant of the World Bank. In short, of course, the state can stand behind strategic industries and make a crucial factor and success of some industry, workers' wages, of course, that can be increased etc., but it seems that no one for workers and the social majority will be able to cope unless we do it ourselves because those who should represent the interests of all do so. The Workers' Front therefore invites workers and workers of Podravka not to remain silent, not to wait for the fate of other workers, to fight for their salaries and for their jobs, as well as for the democratisation in the decision-making of companies, because obviously those who should represent their own, and thus the interests of all of us, do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u43489	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52018	Honorable MPs and respected MPs good morning. Before we begin a reminder, HS announced St. Martin Borkovic's unanimous decision at its meeting on 9 and 10 June 1687 at the instigation of Zagreb's bishop Martin Borkovic. Joseph to the protector of the Croatian Kingdom as a permanent reference to that decision in 2008. at the entrance to HS there is a relief of St. Joseph loves the statue of Shime Bulas. Here we begin in a peaceful, sacred tone. Here's my colleague Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52019	Mr. President, I'm so glad you're... On this great day of 333 years, we enjoy the protection of St. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] I wanted to ask you if we can honor all those who have given their lives to the Croatian state since 1687.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52020	Thank you very much for this initiative, but we don't have a custom, there are a lot of dates that we could mark with a minute of silence, but we know what the odds are. Thank you for your initiative. I just wanted to remind us all here and our citizens that this decision has been made today. Thank you all very much. Let's move on, so now it's time to propose a law on waste management, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 132 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 132 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection and the Committee on Law. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. I welcome the Minister of Economy and the sustainable development of a respected colleague, Tomislav Ćorić, and I ask him to address the opening. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52021	The Honorable President of HS Mr Jandrokovic, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. First of all, it is my pleasure to present to you today the proposal for a waste management law. The legislative proposal is definitely the most complex legal act the ministry has had the opportunity to pass over the past few years. With the number of remarks, the intensity of the debates that are being conducted by certain components of waste management really deserves and be subject to a constructive debate before HS today. Let me introduce you to the bill itself. Therefore, the key role of the circular economy in achieving an ambitious objective of turning Europe into a climate-based neutral continent in 2050. As well as reducing pollution and halting biodiversity loss, the reasons are, in fact, the basis for this bill of law that is before you today. The exploitation of natural raw materials has increased over the last 50 years, the exploitation of natural resources and the processing of materials, fuel and food leads to approximately half of total greenhouse gas emissions and causes more than 90% loss of biodiversity. In Croatia, but throughout Europe, we are still too linear and dependent on the natural resources that are processed into products and are finally being put off as waste. Only 12% of the materials used in industry are recycled in the EU. The European Green Plan and the new Circular Economy Action Plan represent the framework plans for key European policies and measures in the area of climate and the environment, whose implementation and the task of this generation are and for which a strong synergy of sectoral policies is needed. The strategy of low-carbon development of the Republic of Croatia, the new regulations in the area of climate documents, are which direct our transition towards a climate neutral and resolutely efficient society. This is why the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development is going with such an ambitious at some point a very ambitious waste management law. The new Waste Management Act, which we present today, is part of the objective of the European Green Plan, and the priority is to reduce and recover materials in recycling. The implementation of this law is closely linked to legislative proposals and policy initiatives for sustainable products and new regulatory frameworks for batteries, waste vehicles, the reduction of excessive packaging waste and others. What follows is a very intense period in this area and changes that will affect each of us, and all with the aim of reducing the amount of waste that is produced, we recover it, we recycle it, and we reduce the delay to the least possible extent. Sustainable product policy, fostering circular product design through the reduction and re-recovery priorities introduces a business model that will prevent harmful environmental impact on the product and strengthen the extended responsibility of the manufacturer. This sustainable product policy significantly reduces the amount of waste. However, when waste cannot be avoided, its economic value must be restored and its adverse impact on the environment and climate change minimised. Special emphasis is placed on strengthening the market for secondary raw materials and by-products, especially secondary raw materials with mandatory content of recycled materials. The adoption of the Waste Management Act is part of the harmonisation with the legal acquis of the EU, which has been amended in the field of waste management, as amended during 2018 and 2019. through the Waste Directive, packaging and packaging waste, waste dumps, waste vehicles, batteries, batteries, electrical and electronic equipment and reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. The abovementioned amendments to the European legislation of 2018, which relate to waste, bring more and more demanding objectives which have been incorporated into this legislative proposal. By 2015, at least 55% of the mass of municipal waste must be recovered by recycling and preparation for recovery. By the same year, at least 65% of the total waste packaging must be recycled. By 2030, five bottles should contain at least 30% recycled plastic. By 2035, a maximum of 10% of total production of municipal waste from 2025 should be postponed at landfills of waste. Until 2035. At least 65% of the mass of municipal waste must be recovered by recycling and preparation for recovery. Plastics or single plastic products are our everyday life because of their high functionality and relatively low cost. Although plastics play a useful role in the economy and key changes in many sectors due to its growing use and in short-life products that are not designed for reuse or cost-effective recycling of production and consumption patterns associated with it are becoming increasingly inefficient or.../incomprehensible/..., therefore, in the context of the action plan for the circular economy of the European plastic strategy in the circular economy, the problem of the constant rise in plastic waste generation and the disposal of plastic waste in the environment, especially in the marine environment, must be resolved in order to achieve a circular life cycle of plastics. In the EU, between 80 and 85% of marine waste makes up plastics with plastics for single use making up 50% and items related to fishing for 27% of the total amount of waste in the sea. Plastics for single-use use include a whole range of commonly used consumer products that are rapidly spent and discarded once used, and for which they are intended, are rarely recycled and are often discarded into the environment as waste. Therefore, plastics for single use and fishing gears containing plastics are a particularly serious problem in the context of marine waste. They pose a serious threat to marine ecosystems, biodiversity and health and harm activities such as tourism, fisheries and maritime transport. In view of the fact that the part of plastics for single use is made available to an appropriate more sustainable or environmentally acceptable alternative to this proposal, the law prohibits the placing on the market of the following single plastic products. These are ear stickes, cutlery, plates, straws, potion mixers, balloon sticks and food containers, or containers and drink glasses made of expanded polythyren, including their stoppers and lids. Certain plastics for single use end in the environment due to inadequate disposal. These products often lack information on the essential characteristics of the product or the appropriate method of waste disposal. Therefore, such plastics for single use must be adequately and marked and the label shall contain information for consumers on appropriate options for waste management for the product or on which waste management methods for that product should be avoided and in accordance with the hierarchy. In the case of plastic products for single use for which no appropriate and sustainable alternatives are available, in accordance with the principle of pay pollutants. Programmes for the extended responsibility of manufacturers are introduced to cover the necessary costs by the management of these forms of waste and the cost of measures to raise awareness of all citizens and to prevent the creation of this waste. It is also necessary to mention the problem of environmental pollution by discarding plastic carrying bags, especially in water bodies, which threatens the aquatic ecosystems. Plastic bags for wearing with a wall thickness of less than 50 microns, etc. lightweight plastic carrying bags, which make up a large majority of the total number of wearable plastic bags, are rarely used again than thicker plastic carrying bags. These lightweight plastic bags are therefore rapidly becoming waste and are more often polluted by waste because of their small weight. The current recycling rates of lightweight plastic bags are very low and therefore a number of practical economic difficulties in the near future are unlikely to reach a more significant level of recycling itself. In order to reduce the consumption of light plastic carrier bags, they should lead to a sustainable reduction in the consumption of light plastic bags and must not cause a total increase in the production packaging and may include restrictions on placing on the market such as a ban. Although an obligation was introduced in the Republic of 2019 to collect lightweight plastic carrying bags at the point of sale of goods or products of their consumption is not sufficiently reduced. Data indicate n total growth in the consumption of plastic bags to carry in the Republic of Croatia in 2019 compared to 2018. Although the fall was recorded in the category of light plastic carrying bags, there was a total increase in the consumption of plastic bags, which is not in line with the target. Therefore, by prohibiting the placing on the market of light plastic carrier bags, it wants to encourage the use of thicker plastic bags and to prevent waste and recovery. In addition to the measures that have led to the public's greatest interest, the law regulates other waste management issues and introduces, instead of a waste management permit, the entry into the register of the competent county office, which simplifies and speeds up the process of passing the necessary documents for waste management, such as biological recovery, energy recovery of hazardous waste, waste oil recovery for the production of biofuels, etc. Furthermore, this legislative proposal lays down the responsibilities for keeping records and eyewitnesses for waste management activities according to which the county offices or the City of Zagreb are run by an eyewitness of the collectors and repairers, an eyewitness of the by-product, carrier records, trader intermediaries and recycling yards and re-use centre records. And the ministry is leading an eyewitness to the removal of waste status. This law also provides for a public service for the collection of mixed municipal waste. As is known, during the drafting of this draft law in March 2021. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has reached a decision and related to a request for a number of parties to assess the consent of the Community waste management Regulation and the Law on Sustainable Waste Management with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the proposal for a law that is now fully in line with the Constitutional Court's decision before you today. Furthermore, the proposed law introduces new provisions in re-use centres, which has not been regulated so far. The process of managing the Eyewitness on production and flow shall be simplified, or the competences and conditions for the management of waste from the mining industry shall be attributed. It is prescribed that bonds made by the RH Waste Management Plan are the Republic of Zagreb, or the City of Zagreb, which is a change from the current commitment made by JLS. Regional approach to the planning of one of the most important recommendations sent by the European Commission to the Republic of Croatia in its 2018 report on the implementation of European waste legislation. The same report also assessed the need to strengthen economic instruments in waste management, and this proposal sets out the obligations for manufacturers of products in the context of extended responsibility and the way in which the manufacturer’s extended responsibility system is organised through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Specific categories of waste for which specific conditions of management or payment of special fees are prescribed shall be determined. For the purpose of the transparency of the system, advice on the necessary categories of waste shall also be introduced in order to ensure that producers who pay fees and processors who process waste monitor and analyse measures in the systems of specific categories of waste and on the market of secondary raw materials. The economic instruments of waste management shall be prescribed, primarily incentivising compensation, waste disposal fees, fees due to the proximity of landfills and fees for the use of landfills, return fees and waste management fees under the extended responsibility of producers. The number of provisions relating to cross-border waste transport is reduced, the content and competence of the waste management information system is determined, inspection and administrative oversight of the application of the law is prescribed, and infringement provisions, transitional and final provisions. Finally, all of the above, in line with the direction that we seek in the future through integration of the circular economy and the waste management sector. The waste management system proposed by this law has been tasked with meeting very ambitious waste management targets until 2035, and I had previously had the opportunity to state. Prevention of waste and re-use is one of these objectives. Increase recycling and reduce waste disposal, promote innovative solutions for products and materials, raise public awareness of the importance of waste prevention and reuse of material or objects, and restore the economic value of waste that cannot be avoided. Dear Parliamentarians and MPs, given the importance of this topic for all our citizens and citizens, for units of local and regional self-government, finally for the entire Republic of Croatia, I am sure that today's debate, which will be conducted in accordance with certain articles of this law, will go primarily in the direction that this proposal of the Waste Management Act allows all of us, at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, counties and cities and municipalities, to further improve, in the coming period, the waste management system in the Republic of Croatia, all with the aim of protecting the environment and biodiversity in the Republic of Croatia, increasing the re-use of recycling, re-use of materials, so all with their own objectives that carry environmental and environmental protection of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52022	I thank the minister. You can stay behind the pay phone since they're going to the replica, and there's 21. First up, Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52023	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Minister, I would refer to the process of abolishing waste status. In order to eliminate waste status, it is necessary to attach a bunch of documentation and the process of abolition itself is long-lasting, so it takes months and I am interested in what is causing it, whether the slowness of the administration and the complicated conditions of meeting or the intricacies of the consulting firms that are doing the job in service and making good and fat profit on it? And I want to know why, after you refused, last year we rejected our bill on banning plastic bags and single packaging, but now you're in charge of this bill, why did you reject ours, but now you've decided after all that it was a good thing, and now you're in charge of the proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52024	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52025	Dear Parliamentarians, allow me not to comment on the work of consultants in the context of resolving these issues. And as for this bill of law, we hold that such a bill today is in 2021. is primarily a good and adequate direction for the Republic of Croatia to go. It does not represent a populist pursuit of a political option as represented by your bill 2 years ago. If I'm not mistaken, it was 2019. It's just that this is the moment where we're dealing with all the issues about waste management, not just one thing about how you were then, and probably the viscous idea of getting close to voters wanted to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52026	Let's go to line two, colleague Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52027	I thank President HS. Dear Minister Ćorić, as you know, large amounts of plastic bags end up in rivers, the Adriatic Sea and the environment. So I suggest that in this law you ban all bags, not just these lightweight plastic bags, it means all single bags to actually achieve, as you said, ambitious goals, but in fact, we need to protect the health of people, animals and the clean environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52028	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52029	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Nadj. I have to admit that at Ministry level, we analyzed all three categories, so bags of less than 15 microns, as well as these larger, multiple. What is actually put into place as a thesis is that for carrying, i.e. the transfer of some forms of product in the context of these smallest bags still does not exist an adequate alternative, and what should certainly be warned is that in these large multiple bags we have a significant, above all greater sustainability on the one hand and on the other hand we do not have a problem as expressed as a bag of 15 to 50 microns, which are in the largest use. What should be pointed out is that the EU directive does not go in the direction of a complete ban, as you know, but, the proposals have gone, or legislative action at EU level is aimed at reducing... However, we did not do so by introducing the bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52030	Thank you very much. Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52031	Dear President, respected ministers, the bill is proposed to bring the current law into line with the EU acquis. Following the directive, the new higher targets for the use and recycling of waste by 2035 and the use of valuable ingredients as part of the circular economy are set. Here I will mention the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take care of our nuclear waste and the location is specified Trade Mountain and Cherkevac, it is a former military warehouse that is in preparation and the waste will be taken care of according to the prescribed standards. Have the representatives of the local self-government units been discussed and have they been explained that this is our obligation and need because it is also a border area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52032	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52033	Thank you very much, Mr. Kirin, for your replica. So with the unit of local self-government, it is said to the Court of the Union, the Chief of the Court of the Union, it has been continuously communicating since 2017 and 2018. Of course, according to the ideas of supplying low and medium radioactive waste, there is always a deviation at the level of our inhabitants in the area, but also cross-border, however, we hold that one such facility, wherever it is built, must meet the highest environmental and security first of all, standards and we are sure that in the next period, we will show that this will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52034	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52035	I thank you, Your Honor. Yes, this Law certainly represents in one part of the step, and this is certainly part of the ban on one-off or very small part of one-time plastic products. It seems to us that it would be important to prescribe in the law already now, write cut off dates for other types of single plastic products so that manufacturers can prepare and transform their production into something else in time. In particular, we want to ask yours whether you have predicted and whether you intend to predict a grant scheme from either the EU funds, whether from the national budget, which will enable producers who have so far produced, for example, plastic bags that are banned, to transform and not lose jobs because the green transition must be a fair transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52036	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52037	Thank you very much, Mr. Bencic. I keep the first part of your proposal constructive, but at this point it will be very difficult given the width of one-time plastic products or their numbers. It would be very difficult to identify specific products that, in some cut off, you said, were out of use, but in the next period, we can think about. As for the grant scheme or our reaction in the context of the ban on single plastic bags, 30.5. finished the competition worth 1.1 billion kuna that had just enabled Croatian companies to increase production capacity, introduce new technologies, and that is exactly what we were communicating at the very beginning of the construction of this Act, about a year and a few months ago, to producers of this type of plastic bags, so I believe that we just did what you did through your replica, in fact, and emphasized that it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52038	Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52039	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This Law among other things prescribes and determines the structure of public service prices, which is required by the Law, consists of the price for the quantity of mixed municipal waste and the price of compulsory minimum public service. Furthermore, this price differs, i.e. it prescribes a single price for the household category and those which are not. So in this category, where they are not households, the same category includes small tenants and hotels and hospitals and churches and optical shops, etc. Would you please help, our cities and municipalities now in response to making that price as fair as possible? What is to do with them so that this unique price, as the law prescribes, would be different in terms of the activity they carry out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52040	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52041	Thank you very much for the esteemed representative of Juričev-Marinchev. As you know, your question was addressed from different sides to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia just questioning the constitutionality of certain provisions of our regulation from a year, a year and a few days ago. On the one hand, we have those who want the waste collection done in accordance with the waste that is placed in the can, so that the variable part is the only one represented, on the other hand we have units of local self-government and those who have the responsibility to have the system working, who actually asked us to adapt and provide a fixed portion. And then and now, the ministry has gone the middle way, clearly bearing in mind the fact that we can't please everyone. So the fixed part should reflect that part of the service that must be guaranteed, and everything else should be a variable part that will stimulate our citizens and citizens to separate and thus take responsibility for the clean environment, along with all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52042	Comrade Udovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52043	Thank you. Dear Minister. This report on the consultation carried out following the proposal of this law was actually not drawn up in accordance with the Law on the right to access information because of the 1721 comments and comments received for 848 it was written that there was no answer and 108 that they were accepted. In fact, it's not something that predicts the law, nor is it in accordance with the law. In fact, I do not think that this is a legal proposal for a law and that it is necessary to draw up a report in accordance with the Law on the right to access information as well as the Proposal for a Law on Waste Management was proposed in accordance with the Law on the right to access information as well as the Rules of Procedure of the HS. By ignoring 956 objections and comments from the interested public, I must react as a parliamentary representative and seek protection from the Commissioner for Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52044	Thank you very much. You can take off your mask when you talk. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52045	I would like to thank you for the replica, the honourable parliamentary representative Udovic. It is your right to react and to seek protection, it is your right to consider that this procedure has been illegal as you have said, and it is all wrong, but it is your problem, not us as the legislator of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52046	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52047	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. EU legislation on environmental protection could be said in this sense, the goals are also quite ambitious, this law follows these ambitious goals. [[Intruder President: Fellow colleagues and colleagues please a little quieter.]] In order to achieve them in addition to the changes in behaviour required by education, significant financial resources are also needed, but one fair green transition from our economy is also needed. In this sense, you yourself have already said that the ministry has begun to take certain measures and has opened tenders to help economies change their technologies that would be more friendly to the environment, so in this sense I am interested in what the ministry is doing and what is planning to do in terms of green transition? I would only refer to the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste, I believe that this issue should be addressed in dialogue with Slovenia and that no nuclear waste disposal should be built in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52048	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52049	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petyr. I understand your concern about the construction of such a facility, but the Republic of Croatia needs to be taken care of, or responsible, and obliged to take care of low and medium radioactive waste, and we cannot escape from that responsibility. As for our past activities and related to waste management for the waste management area over the past few years, a total of 4 billion kuna has been agreed, with the amount spent in different directions. I will isolate the information education of the activities that have achieved full impact in the context of information and education of our citizens. Here, among our youngest, we got the largest waste disposal allies in the construction of recycling yards, or the purchase of mobile units, we spent 444 million kunas, in the construction of sorters. We'll spend 175 million kunas, etc. So that's what we're thinking. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52050	Thank you very much. Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52051	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. We once again warn the public that the resources are limited, the wars were not fought because of the resources, but because of the distribution, so we have to, and you say it yourself, change the law. You have often used the word ambitious adjectives, I do not know how you interpret this as ambitious if it is very clear and the EU is asking us to increase our objectives in the field of collection and recycling. Namely, our Waste Management Plan is forecasting until 2022. 60%, and you're reducing this to 55% by 2025. What do you think is ambitious?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52052	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52053	Thank you very much, Mr. Skoro, for your replica. I'll just brief you on the data. 2012-2015, the growth of separate waste collection would be 1% point and the reduction of the 3% drop-off. 2016-2019, this is the last year for which we have full data, the growth of separately collected waste was 11% points, and the reduction of 18% points, so we made a huge step and we were ambitious, especially in the period 2017-2019 and 2020. we will see the basis of the data that will be completed in the last quarter of this year. It's ambitious because it's ambitious and realistic, and whoever wrote the Waste Management Plan in 2017. who prepared this question for you, or this replica, was simply unreal, that's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52054	Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52055	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. In the draft law of Art. The issue of waste management activities shall be settled on 27 to 48. I am interested in the role of the municipality and the city in the process of issuing authorisations for the collection, storage, thermal processing, burning and burning of hazardous waste. In fact, not so long ago, the City of Drnis had to launch three litigation disputes in order for such permits to be annulled by one legal person and not one but three permits. Therefore, how the unit of local self-government can influence the process of issuing dangerous waste management permits because various limestones and cementists were granted licences for the management of such waste, which was annulled in the Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52056	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52057	Thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney Begonja, for your replica. This particular issue concerns the dispute between the city of Drniš and the legal person who operates if I am not mistaken in the territory of the city of Drniš, or the whole multi-annual process that was conducted first at the city level, and then passed on to the national level. The unit of local self-government at each stage and, above all, in the context of an environmental impact assessment of such a facility can always participate and participate in its stakeholders or participants in the commission itself. And it's the best possible way for every facility, including the facilities that deal with waste management. We're particularly careful here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52058	Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52059	Thank you. Dear Ministers, we have yet another recycled Waste Act before us, and the seriousness of the legislator speaks sufficiently of the fact that the comments made by the e-consultation were responsible after 5 months of the public debate and after being put and supported by the Government and 2 days before being debated. This concludes that he does not want to answer questions about this law or perhaps hides something from the public that the public should not know. The public probably had a lot of good suggestions that could be implemented in this law. From this I see that you are obviously not ready to listen to what the Croatian people want to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52060	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52061	Thank you very much, MP Lenart, from this it's only clear that you haven't read the legal proposals. And if you'd read those remarks you're talking about, you'd know that 1,000 remarks or about 70% went the same way, about 300 or 400 of them in the direction of not banning single plastic bags, one 400 of them to ban all types of single plastic bags, one 250 of them or 300 of them, maybe I'd be wrong to ban single plastic bags, and another 300 to ban all plastic single products. So that's the type of remark that's involved. As a rule, they came from very similar sources, and in the context of our answers, I believe that we have acted in good faith, and ultimately this bill clearly states what our intensity is. It's environmental protection, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52062	Now it's time for your colleague, Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52063	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, until now, our law on sustainable waste management has been called the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, and now waste management is clearly lost along the way, so it will be interesting to see where it is lost and why you chose a different name, but it was not the essence of my replica, or my question. So, the newspaper that's in this law is a waste from the mining industry. So in this law now we define a special, special head we have waste that comes from the mining industry, but the waste that comes from the exploitation of mineral raw materials remains in one other law, so what happens and exploits, what happens by research and everything else. The last case we had of the flood that was on Posjestina was caused by a very jaundice from an exploitation field that wasn't recovered, so my question is why did you have this waste that was in two laws, why didn't you decide to have it in one law? in one law to define it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52064	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52065	Well, because you know for a fact that this is a waste, that it's always a borderline issue between the mining sector and the waste management law and the legal direction, we stayed on that side. So that duality as such would be unnecessary from our perspective, at least the profession at the ministry level said so. As for this first statement of sustainability, sustainability came out of the name or the name of the law, but it entered the name of the ministry, so we believe that in this way we covered a much wider range of topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52066	Now we're going to be replicated by our colleague Puljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52067	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to take this opportunity to start calling that here in the assembly we start collecting waste separately, so instead of the paper boxes, we're going to bring in the plastic boxes because we're making a lot of plastics out of the restaurant. But here's a question for the minister, so the law involves only two categories of users, households and not households. The category does not include households, for example. Molov Split and let's say Grandma Mara rents two beds. Therefore, the equalisation of all users who are household at a fixed part of the price and all non-household users is directly contrary to the principle of pay contaminant. Here it was necessary to allow different categories of these business or not households to be developed, to take into account the assumed generation of waste in terms of activity, size, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52068	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52069	Thank you very much, well-respected Parliamentarian Puljak, and I absolutely support your initiative to increase separation. Mr. President-in-Office, if there's anything you can do on that subject, it would be great. As far as the concept is concerned, the pay polluter is absolutely incorporated in all items of this law. And also a concrete example that you cited from our perspective actually supports it. So, we don't care about the ministry the size of the legal person is concerned because this first example you set seems to me that Molo Split can separate 100% of the waste at the level of its operation, and Mrs. Mare's pension which you have also cited can do the exact opposite. The pay polluter puts them in flats. However, we have given local self-government units the opportunity to establish exceptions in themselves that allow them to differentiate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52070	Thank you. And I announce that the secretariat will be given a real task of working on additional waste separation, we separate the paper, but I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do these other things, so thank you for your initiative. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52071	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here's a little bit on the same subject as my colleague said, so it's not just about HS, it's about ministries. In view of the corona measures, everyone eats no more in the restaurant than they eat in their offices. It's about tones and tones, thousands of tons of non-classified waste, it's about Styrofoam, it's about a bag, it's about a one-time kit, and I think it smells like fish head, and it should really start with the ministries and HS to show an example of how it's done, and all of this is a rotten granola. Here's another note or question. Since in the most developed countries of the world, very much is invested in the classification of waste by artificial intelligence, is the United States, China, Norway, particularly progressing, has the ministry dealt with this because there is a future, so that artificial intelligence or robots will tomorrow classify waste extremely well and efficiently?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52072	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52073	Thank you very much, first of all, Parliamentarian Zekanovic, this second part of the replica is really futuristic, but this law deals primarily with people and our activity in all segments of waste management. Indeed at some point, but at the level of these higher levels, there will be also the use of technology and today, or already at the level of a sorting plant or a waste management centre, artificial intelligence will certainly find its place there. As for this first part of your remark or the idea that, at the level of the ministries or generally in the system, there was an increase of thousands and thousands of tons during the covid of the crisis, as you said, of waste in bags, in various kinds of packaging, so we just solved it. So, as we said, if, I don't know, we talk very often about some things, and actually they don't have a form. That's it, it's all going to be forbidden by this law, so plastic plates, right here, these very boxes you said. We've solved the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52074	Thank you. I have to, I have to, I have to let the minister go now, show it for the citizens to see what's going to be banned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52075	So, like we said, straws, glasses, everything. So, I'm sure after this law comes in and you all support it, it's important that we don't have to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52076	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52077	Dear President HS Mr. Jandrokovic, the respected ministers along with his associates. Minister, I have a specific question. Why is it tolerated by JLS, specifically the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the Istrian County, that biodegradable municipal waste remains undegradable even though the law makes it very clear? Is that what the waste management centres might want to do? Minister, we have a study done by TRAVEN, the current director of EKOPLUS, which clearly writes, so this study was written by EKOPLUS director, says if we separate the biowaste Mariščina can no longer work. Contradication here, so please comment on the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52078	I'm a little dissatisfied with my secretary. You didn't say hello. .../Laughter/... Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52079	First of all, I would like to thank my dear representative, Miletic, for your remarks. JLS' responsibility in the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County is a matter that deserves a special debate on the matter. Mrs. Devereaux. Udovic is here, so she could refer exactly to this segment you're talking about because, as you know, Viskovo municipality is one of the co-owners of the waste management centre. What doesn't stand is that the decommissioning of biodegradable waste would question the functioning of a waste management centre because at this point, we're not even close to a 100% separation segment, so there's always a mixed communal enough component that would allow microbiological processes and everything that's probably written in that study you're talking about. So it's not a contradiction in itself, is it, I don't know who wrote it, I didn't hear the studio well, but it's the logic that I tried to show you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52080	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52081	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. You were telling us introducely how important it is to encourage innovative solutions, so I would not even limit myself, here I am almost never and in no way agreeing with Mr. Zekanovic, but if we are talking about innovative solutions, maybe we should let go of the will and that these are solutions, not for example. to still say at the Regional Waste Management Centre Babin Gora is used in 50 years. The old technology and it's just grinding and burying. And as you know for yourself, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has just stopped this project, and not just about public procurement. Do you know what happened to Babin Gora because we were then threatened with the EU funds they received if we do so in an innovative way, how could 32 pages of description of technical and other failures?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52082	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52083	Dear Representative Boric, first of all, thank you for your replica. I'll agree with her first sentence, innovative solutions are the ones we need and we want to go in the next period. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development through its competitions that encourage different segments of the functioning of the economy, including the circular economy and waste management will go in this direction. That's the part where we agree, everything else you said is just not true. So, you don't just grind waste in Babina Gora technology and that's not true and you probably know it's not true. The procedure has stopped primarily because of the prices expressed in the competition itself and will continue and in this context I have nothing further to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52084	Comrade Dragon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52085	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected ministers of the new Waste Management Act are one of the goals of continuing the construction of a waste management centre. The Sagulja Regional Waste Management Centre, based in Slavonski Brod, developed a feasibility study for the construction of a waste management centre, and other project documentation was developed. The value of the centre building project is about 480 million kuna. Can you give me information where you are planning to provide financial resources for the construction of a centre that is currently under the process of project documentation such as the center of the Shagula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52086	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52087	Thank you very much. Therefore, during the reference period of 2014-20 years, funds for the construction of centres of those currently being built, and currently the stage of the border 2 Bikarac and as you know Biljana Donja are primarily found in the financial envelope, i.e. the operational programme Competitiveness and Cohesion. We intend to re-initiate the co-financing of the centres from that part of the operational programme to the extent possible. What I certainly want to point out, and this is usually a challenge to be faced by owners, which is most often county, part of the unit of local self-government is slowness in the realization of the centre and that is what needs to be improved. We're going to have to build the centers because the system of separation neither this, nor the one promoted hardly allows us to make 100% of the amount that exists on the doorstep separate. It never happened anywhere. and it will not happen in Croatia either. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52088	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52089	Thank you very much. The respected minister of the price to be paid by the user of utility services or the price of waste management is one of the most important messages to be sent by this law. We see a lot of not talking about it means that more or less it's done well but I want to ask you. Mixed municipal waste covered this variable part of the price and its disposal. Now we have this fixed part i.e. a minimum public service that has so far covered absolutely all special categories and there we have had the highest cost as a municipal society. And I'm now asking, what makes the state through this law to help us i.e. that this care of special categories of glass, paper, I don't know cardboard, etc. There will be a lower cost to the municipal societies and that this cost will then be passed on through that minimum public service to our citizens. What will the state do whether through a fund or a ministry, and through the provisions provided for by this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52090	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52091	Thank you very much. So we understand that special categories of waste are designed as raw materials bases for further recovery or production of new products. The state will do that to expand the base at the recovery level. At the level of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, an invitation to express interest was opened precisely in the direction of increasing the tax specific category or different categories of waste, and all with the aim of finding its market at local level for local self-government at local level and in this way to you, and then directly to your citizens and citizens in their accounts there will be no cost. It's an idea. On the other hand, the other idea is to co-finance just building at that level, at the level of recovery, so that units of local self-government in the context of sorting, and later recovering is to be put into a situation where those parts that need to be paid And right now, the plastic market is as problematic as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52092	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52093	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, Director, so here's a huge step taken in the care and protection of the environment as well as waste management. I believe that the new objectives set by this law will also contribute to waste separation and recycling. To me there remains only an unknown why and the gathering is not defined as special in this law in order to complete all this good that has been done. I think that from these separations and recycling of strategic objectives that are defined by the law, how much should be collected from 65 to 85% of the various amounts of waste, these are good ideas by 2035 and of course they will certainly produce new products, raw materials, but also energy that can be obtained from waste. So I'm asking you to tell me only this collection where it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52094	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52095	Thank you very much, Parliamentarian Djakic. I absolutely share your thesis that the collection or segment of collectors is unforgivable and immeasurably important in the hierarchy itself and in general in the context of putting special categories of waste aside and from creating a raw materials base for recovery. What we did not want to do with this bill, and so far it has been a practice for the State or the Environmental Protection Fund to enter into a market game between collectors and repairers and to further create new moments in this game that could make it impossible to develop it. This in itself brings a challenge because between the collector and the repairer there should actually be a match between the offer and the demand for the raw material base. We believe that this unquestionably, given the insignificant number and the collector and the rectifier, will ultimately be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52096	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we have been preparing for this green waste management transition for a long time, and surely our citizens are already largely prepared for what they need to know about it. However, in order to achieve these goals that we set for ourselves until the deadline we set ourselves, it is certain that we must motivate them because they are a very important segment throughout this story. And I think the most important thing is for the price to be adequate waste management because our citizens are concerned that moving on to this new waste disposal will greatly increase the price for them themselves. So I think that this should be taken into account because if we motivate them they will certainly separate the waste, and motivation is certainly as low a price as possible, so that all these costs of waste disposal are poured out from investment in the dump itself, etc., not too much to our fellow citizens. I'd also suggest that textile waste be special It collects because there's enough of it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52098	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52099	Thank you very, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, So our idea, or direction, is clear, on all of us, and on our citizens and citizens, is responsible for the environment around us and this problem of burdening those responsible, we can simply jump to the price of the irresponsible. The majority of our citizens and citizens and at this moment separates, selects waste on the doorstep and sends it in special directions depending on the cans available to them or the containers. There are those who do not, precisely the possibility that the price of the utility service is defined through a fixed and variable part leaves space, but gives responsibility to the units of local self-government and their holders that those who are irresponsible to us today, our environment and the future tomorrow for this ultimately and punishment, to be responsible for the awards at a lower cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52100	Thank you. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52101	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers. Of course I welcome all the efforts that go towards better management of the waste that arises from the use of plastic packaging. However, the objectives of this law will not be achieved by introducing records and eyewitnesses to which you have spent most of your exposure. A particular question, given that the city of Zagreb has set out to destroy damaged buildings in the earthquake itself, do you have any information on the acceptable capacity for construction waste in the City of Zagreb, what you have done, in the last year and a half, and what is really the state of the accommodation facilities for acceptance, processing, recycling, possible reuse of construction waste in the City of Zagreb? Is everything ready to be restored in a full and true sense of the word?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52102	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52103	Thank you very much, well-respected representative Oreskovic, on your replica and allow me to react to her first part. We think we have touched all the essential segments of the waste management system in the Republic of Croatia, not just the provisions you called for. But you're a lawyer, so you probably see it as one of the most important and important moments in this law. As for the situation in the City of Zagreb, the mayor is not here today, but I think you should talk to him on the subject and consult eventually because I am convinced that in the past few days he has gained insight into it. The information I have and that the existing capacity for construction waste at the City of Zagreb level is close to 100% filling, it requires that new locations be found. You probably alluded to that in your replica when you went with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52104	I thank the Minister, you can go back to the post because there's no more replicas, so now we're going to move on to committees. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear colleague Sandra Benčić, president of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52105	Thank you. I was asked to try to cut to five minutes, so I'm going to point out only some major parts of the debate we had yesterday on the Environment Committee. So, yesterday we discussed this bill on the Environment Committee, I would like to point out that the Committee has received written proposals and comments from HGK, HUP, HOC, Single Plastic Anti-pollution Platforms, as well as from the Zero Waste Croatia Platform. So, in summary, I'd say there were three things most discussed. The first thing is this biggest step being taken by the Waste Management Act, which is a ban on placing on the market certain single plastic products where the position of HGK, HOK and HUP is on one side and they have sought or proposed certain solutions that would go in the direction of allowing plastic bags with a high rate of recycling, or those bags that are made of recycled plastic. Also their position was and this position is based on the analysis they made with producers in the sector, 27 if I remember correctly the manufacturer responded to their questionnaire and on the basis of what they proposed is to design specific competitions for this particular sector in order to move on to the production of other products and also to have the means to replace the technology they would need. On the other hand, the civil society organisation welcomed, of course, a complete ban on the placing of disposable plastic products, but they also seek greater ambition. What they're asking is that it's not just a few products, they're asking to actually define dates or times when they're going to be banned from placing on the market and other products or single products of plastic. The second issue has been the issue of waste management centres and the appropriateness of technology that centres today have. So, many who were there yesterday pointed out that this is an outdated technology and that the law still does not encourage enough systems at the level of local self-government units that would allow the part that comes from the waste management centre to really be cleaned up as the first of the biowaste because it is the waste that then creates all those inconveniences around the waste management centre, primarily unpleasant smells, but also other kinds of harmful emissions. So, we actually questioned that concept at all and did, aware that there was no... that there is always a certain, certain part of the waste that must then be recovered, some on the committee itself considered that there should be some other mechanisms at JLS level and that JLS should not have this obligation imposed on them by law, which is that, therefore, the waste must be driven from JLS level to waste management centres because it does not comply with the principle of proximity or very often in transport which is more than 100 km long. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one of the things that has been pointed out is the question of course collection, which we also discussed. It has therefore been welcomed that the Constitutional Court's decision has been implemented. The question of actually collecting a fixed portion was also problematicd, is such a model really fair in terms of those who do not represent households, is it fair that, for example, a hairdressing salon pays the same as the hotel pays? However, in that part we have not found any other solutions in order to have in the form of a proposal yet, but we have pointed out on the board that we are interested in 2-3 of these topics which have been given a great public interest and where there is actually most of the comments that are addressed in the course of e-consultation, to make additional, additional committee meetings that would specifically deal with this topic. I would just like to point out in the end that one of the committee members pointed out that the report on the consultation with the interested public was not in line with the Law on the right to access information because the applicant therefore proposed 848 comments and comments indicated that there was no answer, while 108 received them. The board member asked to vote on rejecting the bill because it did not comply with the law on access to information, however, the proposal was rejected. I just wanted to let you know that the problem has been highlighted. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52106	You can only say what's most important, in fact, how the board eventually voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52107	Excuse me. I was trying to sum up, and in the end I didn't say the most important thing, which is that the board's conclusion is that a proposal for the Waste Management Act is being adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52109	Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52110	No, everything's fine. Let's go to the debate now, first up is the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, dear colleague Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52111	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The new Waste Management Act is a step forward compared to the existing one because it sees more realistic ways to move from the very beginning of the EU when it comes to the objectives that we need to achieve in the waste management sector. The law has been presented in several versions that have changed and I see adapted according to the comments and there have been significant changes in accordance with the proposals during the public debate and the final version of the law is compared to the original versions and significantly improved and what is important in a realistic way is considering new objectives and deadlines for their achievement, which are set as a framework for European directives. It is known that the Republic of Croatia does not meet most of the objectives that we have with the European Commission under the Accession Treaty. This primarily refers to separate collection, processing, use and recycling of municipal waste. Practice has shown that these goals for the Republic of Croatia were too ambitious and not realistic since it took some older EU Member States 30 and more years to meet them. Croatia had good assumptions that it was at least close to achieving these goals in the last 10 years. For various reasons, she has failed to do so, primarily because of the lack of continuity of the implementation of planning and strategic documents by ministers who led the ministry. Confusive policies have also been conducted where the accent was placed on the supply of canned containers, not just to the waste treatment plant. As a result, most municipalities and cities have major financial problems today, since what is collected separately has to be paid someone to take over. In this context to welcome is the real setting of targets by '25. 55% of the waste to be recycled and this goal will be difficult to achieve unless we build plants for sorting, biowaste treatment and waste management centres. In doing so, some have problems building exactly these centers, and you know for a fact that every time there is a big public debate and there are great pressures when any waste management centre is to be built. In the EU itself, we have to bear in mind that sufficient municipal waste remains a part that cannot be used materially, and because of the caloric value, energy can be used. In the EU itself, we have about 500 plants for the thermal recovery of waste, and even now several of them are being built from Spain, Ireland and Turkey, and therefore mixed municipal waste is not only for technological reasons but, primarily, financial economic reasons cannot be processed in a number of local facilities because this system would make it completely unsustainable. This unsustainability is partly shown by two built centres in Pula and Rijeka that have solved one problem related to waste treatment and produced by another because the resulting fuel part of the waste has to be exported at a price of up to EUR 200 per tonne for further thermal treatment. In this respect, it is intended to support a provision imposing obligations on cities and municipalities to hand mixed waste over to regional county centres, as well as a provision that provides for the thermal recovery of waste, including cement plants that can certainly process one part of the fuel part of the waste. This approach contributes to climate neutrality since greenhouse gases are thus neutral and are not subject to taxi payments or is part of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. Waste energy production contributes to the objectives of the circular economy through its energy recovery. The proposal for a new law lays down the requirements of the European Directive, which applies in part to the disposal of waste which must not exceed 10% of the total amount of input. Many forget that this strict goal can only be achieved through a combination of material and energy waste recovery, almost all European countries have energy recovery facilities that process nearly 100 million tonnes of waste annually, and those most developed as a result of this achieve the 10% waste disposal targets. Therefore, to welcome the provisions of this law as... dangerous waste of the process of incineration, disposal and the waste management centre is considered buildings of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the specific categories of waste are relatively well solved through the existing legislative framework, especially through the fund's deposit system for environmental protection and energy efficiency. The effort is accompanied by the existing situation and the more quality of the new obligations, especially with regard to packaging waste, we support the introduction of art. 93, i.e. advice on specific categories of waste, but I suggest that even with the proposed expert representatives, at least two independent experts are involved in order to improve the objectivity and transparency of the work of the council itself. In order to improve the respect for the hierarchy of waste management in which prevention comes first, the existing legislative proposal applies only to the recycling plant. I suggest we get into art. The 94th century 4th century. change in a way that the fund can co-finance the construction of a waste recycling plant in order to achieve high efficiency recycling and reuse centres to prevent waste. It's for the purpose of prevention. Additional burden is seen in the law of the operator and the owner of the waste disposal is imposed. 95. The law, I believe, should only be paid for the compensation for the disposal of waste, while the regulated landfills that receive processed waste should be excluded. In this way, it would make a difference and encourage that those non-coordinated landfills are particularly consistent with the minimum environmental impacts. As regards the payment of the incentive fee, I consider it to be in the article. In 96. it should have been unambiguous to write that units of local self-government that met the objectives of waste management are exempt from paying the incentive fee to reduce the amount of mixed municipal waste. I find it totally unacceptable. In 103, which abolishs the obligation to develop waste management plans of local self-government units, cities and municipalities of local self-government units are real holders of waste management systems and should have planning documents in line with the county state waste management plan. For the purposes of harmonising the National Waste Management Plan with the provisions of this law, it is provided for 12 months which I consider to be too long and I propose that the article be recast in such a way that the deadline for harmonisation is no more than 6 months. 168. Another important new proposal for a new law is related to the consumption or placing on the market of one-time plastic products, as I see it most... during the public debate there was a sharp division of those who believe that such products should not be banned because they are not guilty of ending in the environment but of human behaviour towards those others who are seeking a complete ban on what we see from the debate of the minister who has drawn concrete figures that the almost ratio was equal. I believe that this law has again found some compromises in accordance with the Directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. ... the placing on the market of all plastic carrier bags but only those light with a wall thickness of less than 50 microns, including those with a wall thickness of less than 50 microns which do not satisfy the conditions in order to be considered very lightweight plastic weight bags. [[/The speaker reads too fast, he doesn't understand.]] There is a certain flexibility which is important for manufacturers of these products as they will continue to be able to produce similar products. In that sense, I have no comment on this law and I find it acceptable. Finally, I estimate that the proposal for a new law is a new step that shows a much more rational and realistic approach in determining the objectives of waste management and how they are achieved. Therefore, I believe that it will be life and conductive, of course practice will show whether certain parts of it will need to be corrected and completed. Croatia should, according to its economic capabilities and capacities, create a sustainable system with a tendency to eventually pursue more ambitious goals if we overcome these tasks. I particularly believe that it is necessary, within the framework of the competent ministry, to deal in a competent manner with the implementation of this law and other sublegal acts in order not to happen until 2025. We'll be away from the frames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52112	Thank you. Now we will move on to another club, it is the Club of Representatives of Mosta and the esteemed colleague Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52113	Dear President of HS Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Bukarica, respected ministers, together with his associates and respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. The new law does not make the necessary solutions and the ecological direction of movement in our relation to waste. The law has no broader vision, no courage to say no to outdated concepts of waste management. It needs to be objective, he's certainly a step forward as we see him at the Mosta Club, but not enough. To use the sports dictionary, we've had a chance to play in some major league, but we're satisfied because we're playing basketball in the A2 League West, not good enough. This law should have directed Croatia towards greater steps towards reduction and recycling of waste. So what do the government and the ministry propose, and why are we not satisfied at the Mosta Club? First, to encourage the spread of missed concepts of county waste management centres. The new centers are a source of ecocid and contagion. The law forges the construction of regional waste management centres that have actually missed the concepts of waste management. They are financially expensive and are harmful to the environment and human health. Instead of allowing the treatment of mixed waste locally in units of local self-government in small modular devices that extract recyclings and convert the rest into raw materials for waste and internal waste, thus respecting the legal principle of proximity, this is deliberately violated. Local self - government units must carry waste for hundreds of miles and pay dearly for its processing. This process in most parts ends in large part and in the form of RDF that must be sent outside Croatia to co-incineration or to pay expensively in cements in the Republic of Croatia, which citizens feel in increasing monthly accounts. Cities and municipalities are clearly obliged to hand mixed waste over to regional centres. Ask the Rivers what they think of Mariscina. Ask the people of Medulin what they think of Kastion. Personally, I was there, there without any pathetics, ministers, now summer comes, people barricade, windows close, doors, they can't get out of the smell, not out, it's a notorious smell that's spreading from Mariscina and from Kastion. And it's not just about the smell, but we have the Institute of Public Health, which is the last official study that says that the spread of carcinogenic elements is right from Mariscina. In the end, HDZ colleagues came out with these data in Rijeka County, and I didn't pull them out of some paper. This Law lowers the set of separate waste collection from 60% to 2022, which is prescribed by the current Waste Management Plan of the Republic of Croatia 2017-2020 and replaces this target with a weaker target of 55% to 2025. Here, again, we have a colleague from whom we could learn a lot, Prelog, which is at 70%, if I'm not mistaken or if Krk is ours at Kvarner which is at 60% waste collection. The state needs to provide incentives to units, fees, units of local self-government that have met the objectives of waste management, and not to see the Prologus still get by the head. I guess that's why, I don't know, because it's an example and an example. Far above the targets set in the Republic of Croatia, so let's give him a slap, that's how we do it, right? Who's good on the head? We asked ourselves that by 2020 50%, colleagues and colleagues, 50%. Papers, plastics, glass and metal. I think we've barely crossed 35%, about 37%. Third, this law encourages waste burning and at least as I see it, silences citizens and their opinions. The new provision says burning in cement plants should no longer be defined by the city's spatial plan and the municipalities. This is a concrete attempt to silence the voice of citizens, which makes it impossible to discuss waste management in their environment. If this Law had been in force, my Rivers would have been given a garbage burner, believe it or not, in the water protection area of the Draška Draga. It was the idea of the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka. Lucky for us, we were able to stop that crazy project. As we stopped the trash burner in Chabra, that's what I wrote, Minister, several times. Waste burners are not the preferred way to deal with waste. This was warned by the EU, which gave up in encouraging their construction. Trash burners are not in line with the EU Green Plan or the Circular Economy Package, nor are our waste management plans planned from 2017 to 2022, so the law requires that waste burning plants in the Republic of Croatia will not be built. They won't build. Burning waste, that's art. 11 points. 1, processing of hazardous waste by burning, disposal and waste management processes, writes, of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. So how, man? Well, he can't. So the treatment of hazardous waste, incineration and disposal is not the best available technique for the above mentioned and waste management centres, e.g. in Marišcina and Kastion, as I was saying, are missed concepts, ecological, health and financial. We have local systems that have shown great success in recycling in circular waste management, I was talking here, we have a Prelog. I'm sorry I haven't gone to your place yet, and I said no, but I will. We have Krk, we have neighbors who work well in Slovenia, we have Italy, Traviso, let's see what people do. Burning and burning have been proven to be inefficient. Fourth, this law violates the principle of waste management that the polluter pays for. This is one of the fundamental principles of environmental protection according to which the pollutant carries the costs incurred, if it has done something wrong on its own. And this Law faces the reality that these systems are actually very expensive. So, I'll be very plastic. We have expenses, we have that fixed part and we have the variable part. And now I understand, there can't be a utopia, we'd set it up, but if a fixed portion were successful, it would be 30%, and then the citizens in that variable part would motivate me. Well, we Croats, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we're a lot of sloths. Then like this when you're in your pocket, so when you say you'll pay a lot cheaper, and then you'd encourage people to treat each other differently, eventually, they're out. So it needs to be objective. I said, this law is a step forward, as we see it, but it seems to me that there are a lot of old problems that he hasn't solved, and it also seems to me that he could create others. Time is inexorable, he always shows all the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52114	We are going to the third debate, the House Movement Representatives Club, and the esteemed colleague Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52115	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Ministers with Associates, here's how the jury of the Homeland Movement voted on this bill of yours. You have already responded to your colleague Mrak Taritash, explaining why you have thrown out the word "sustainable waste management" this rather than just waste management because it is in the name of your ministry, but it seems to me that for your government in that ministry, everything is just not sustainable because we are in the waste management system at the beginning of the EU, because it is being delayed, because it is under-separated and recycled, because most of the biodegradable waste is still delayed instead of separately collecting, because the system of separate collection of problematic and hazardous waste is weak and inefficient. That's statistics. In fact, the sector is run by a clientele, a corrupt clientele who spends huge money on our behalf, so it would be possible to conclude with one wing with which he could end this if, for them, the undeserved profits and premiums, and for us, the damage and inefficient system. There is no responsibility, of course, nor anyone asking for it, and in that sense this law does not bring any change whatsoever. There will still be none of the rapid and efficient construction of national infrastructure sorters, composts and reuse centres without which it is not possible to meet the targeted recycling rates. The focus of all activities will be on the waste treatment infrastructure or non-classified waste whose total capacity is in fact a measure of failure of the sector, and I mean the famous waste management centres that my colleague Miletic was talking about. We have been preparing for their assembly for decades in many counties, otherwise these counties are without experience, competence and responsibility, and should be holders of implementation with the Republic of Croatia under this law. Countys have no experience because this is not what they do, that is what cities and municipalities, knowledge and competences do not have, because such personnel of the county never should have, and ultimately they have no responsibility, because local waste management units are responsible for local self-government and the state is at national level. Two already built such a centre, so you've heard the Rijeka Mariscina and the Pulse Kastion although for each we pay more than 350 million kuna have a lot of work problems, and the contribution to recycling does not exist, the emissions of particles and unpleasant smells are almost daily, and one of them has already lost his environmental license twice. However, the clientelistic forces, as if they were not touched, are planning a series of similar features, Dubrovnik-Neretva County plans a waste management centre Lucino Razdolje, Split-Dalmatia County wants Lecevic, Zadar County is already building Biljane Donja, and it is worth mentioning also the Carlovac County and their Babina Gora. It is, of course, not finished because it is planned to have a Piškorica, a centre in Zagreb, etc. The total cost of each center is difficult to predict but the figures of half a billion kuna or slightly less are now being announced at each center. So we know well that the clientele has no problem when after the competition we need to increase the costs, we have already seen a lot of examples through additional items of the famous VTR or extracurricular works depending only on what the procurement procedure is. In each of these county's waste management centres, a project of the largest scales of investments ever run and controlled by the county authorities. That is why they defend it in spite of all the arguments of an independent profession and despite the devastating experience with Mariščina and Kastion. It is not important that a healthy alternative is up to 10 times cheaper than that these investments do not allow for the achievement of recycling goals, but the opposite creates a major threat and damage to the environment and citizens. It's funny, huge public money for an expensive clientelistic misery of solving is actually without results. Even for the time being, the responsibility of those involved in making obvious harmful decisions and misjudges is at stake. As the mayors of Istria, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County are now staying quite apart when they reach the issue of the work of their centres, so believe me, all of these future mayors when money is spent, goals do not meet, and the environment permanently pollutes. And I'm going to repeat, regardless of my question that no one has written to me, but I've looked at it a little bit, the law is absolutely unambitious because we, in the waste management of the other time, do not have an increase in recycling. So we are facing more and more ambitious targets set by the EU, and this law reduces the targets for separate collection and recycling compared to the current waste management plan. So it was supposed to be 60% by 2022, and we cut to 55% by 2025, and the good one was too ambitious, but who is it, so where is that responsibility in politics and for what it seems and plans because we pay it all together, and in the end nobody answers. This law and I will say this in the end has caused a lot of public attention, 1721 objections were recorded in the context of public consultation but most refer to the bravest procedure this law adopts, which is Article 17 of the ban on placing on the market legal plastics bags for single use. It's the move of every move. The problem of discarded plastics in the environment especially in the sea, of course, is extremely large and is still unknown for scientists. However, all measures should be taken to stop the rejection of plastic products, especially those once in the environment. The interaction of plastics and fish worlds in the Adriatic has already been recorded according to a recent European study involving our scientists in the gastrointestinal tract of fish has been found plastics of 3 to 26% in various fish samples. Therefore, it is clear that the phasing out of use is part of the solution, not the ban, but the use of critical types of plastic products. Unfortunately, though, we do not see the other part of the solution, which is the fact that a good system of circular plastic management should be established, involving entrepreneurs and craftsmen from the branch of plasticists. If restrictions are introduced on one part of the product, much greater economic potential could be activated in the construction of circular management through the plastics of our society because there is a huge potential. Why? Because we throw about 300,000 tons of plastic instead of building a strong network for separate collection and processing and recycling of these same plastics. A great economic potential and a lot of jobs would open up, but such a solution does not fit into that vision of a clientelistic elite that has been constantly ruling the waste management sector in our country for years. So here are the final results, the law is bad, unambitious and particular, there is no need or goal that stands before the waste management sector, and there is circular waste management. For reasons of tourism sustainability as an important component, unfortunately important components if not the only economic system, we need to build a system in which waste does not create a problem and cost but exploits every economic option, and thus we will also become a society responsible for the environment and for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52116	Thank you, too. It is now up to Minister Tomislav Ćoric to speak on behalf of the promoter for 5 minutes. Thank you, here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52117	Dear MPs and MPs, allow me to look again at the key thesis in the short term, in the final and the changes this legislative proposal carries and look back on the part of the exposure that we have so far had the opportunity to hear. Therefore, the new Waste Management Act aims primarily to push Croatia in a direction that allows it until 2050. become a low-carbon society, a direction that is... The green economy, i.e. the circular economy, which primarily encourages all stakeholders in the process, and I mean our citizens and citizens, JLS, counties, the Environmental Protection Fund, and also the legislator towards greater concern for our environment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Logic is very clear, in some parts of this legal solution we have taken a few steps in relation to practice so far. I'm sure they'll be part of the interested public, and that's where I mean... The community I greatly appreciate and their opinions we greatly appreciated and, in the preparation of this law, be partially and dissatisfied, I am sure that those who feel that such a system will function well will also be dissatisfied. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We in the ministry are based on all the reflections that we have collected during the writing of this law, and we think that it is a step towards achieving these goals that I said at the very beginning. In the past few years, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, and now the economy and sustainable development, has sent 3 billion and 900 million kunas to different aspects of infrastructure building, both physically and mentally in the context of information and education towards different stakeholders in the process. According to the educational activities of 53 million kuna, for the recycling yard of 444 million kuna, for 10 plants or sortery, which I think the representative Škoro listed, 175 million kuna, for 9 plants for processing separately collected biowaste 86 million kuna, for the purchase of municipal vehicles 138 million kuna, for 31 plants for the processing and recycling of construction and glamour waste 140 million kuna, for containers 315 million kuna, for the recovery of 32 locations of 490 million kuna, for Sovjak 320 million kuna, etc. Mr. Skoro, allow me to speak directly to you. Waste management centres which are one of the parts of the infrastructure for mixed municipal waste that remains after we have not all separated are an unforgivable part of the system. In the waste management plan that is in place, those centres were placed by the person who wrote you a speech and misinstrued you on some of the thesis you brought here, Mr. Slaven Dobrović, that is his plan for waste management. So this clientele you're talking about, which is profiting from this waste management system, is the clientele that came from that waste management plan, or its realization. I'm not a person who crashes behind me, so allow me not to tear down a waste management plan that I thought Mr. Dobrović had created with a ministry profession in an adequate way. As far as the goals are concerned, allow one more thing. You are falsely referencing yourself or making an incorrect claim. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/35 of 13 December 2016 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and That's right. This law stipulates that until 2025. be separated, recycled and recovered, or used, which is much more complex than the 55% apart, so we haven't reduced ambition, we've made it very advanced. Our ambition for the very end is visible from what we've done over the past few years, and we've made great progress in the separation that you've referred to, and I'm going to say how much, with 26% of 2016. 37% in 2019, over 40% in 2020, so we're good, but some of us don't want to admit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52118	Thank you. Mr. Minister, stay, stay, have, have a series of replicas. Mrs. Devereaux. Benchcock first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52119	Thank you. Here's the Honorable Minister, I have a question about waste management centers. You listed how much you invested in the detachment infrastructure, maybe then you should have compared it to the amounts spent or planned for waste management centres, so you would see that the biggest part of the investment is actually in that part because of the cost of the centre. But what's more important is that you tell us, at what extent, what dimensions are the waste management centres planned? I'm going to ask you specifically about Lucie's distance. Do they plan in accordance with this as far as they should separate or still pre-named centres are planned, in particular I would point out the dangers and risks that the CGO near the Bay of Maloston due to the danger of really falling water from the CGO coming to the Bay of Maloston? I ask you once again on behalf of the citizens of the Bay of Maloston to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52120	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52121	Thank you very much, ma'am. It's a mole on your tail. So let's start in order, so for the waste management project over the past period, 3.9 was spent, or we plan to spend it, and 3.9 billion kuna will be spent in terms of what was agreed on. Of that, for all other infrastructure 2.3 billion kunas, therefore with a short calculation it is somewhere slightly more than a 1.6 billion that should be spent on all waste management centres in the Republic of Croatia. That's the answer to the first part of your question. As far as the centres or their designs are concerned, so as you know, and you probably know, Lucino's Range is designed on some 30 thousand tonnes if I am not mistaken and of course it's designed by the idea that we will achieve certain objectives since 2020 and 2025, respectively. As for the adequateness of all centres in the Republic of Croatia and their needs, let's demystify the story, so at one point with mixed municipal waste that is not separate, and it separates more and more this year we will cross over 40%, we have to do something, we have to do something. The centers are a solution to what they're technologically meant to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52122	Mr. Minister, let's stick to the weather. Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52123	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, you have also told us about the EU's goals and we want to achieve this in a very detailed manner during the 5-minute presentation. But what we need to know, we need to know where we are and what the realities are, in which time one of these goals can, we can reach. Because we can set ourselves very high goals and watch and know that we will not reach them. What's the problem, the problem is these waste management centers are the times in which they're being realized. If your design time is 3 to 4 years, and the time of performance is just as much, the technology is going forward, the world is changing, and we're going behind it as a limp cat, so that's our problem. You and the infrastructure you're setting today must be a infrastructure that's perceptible in some kind of decent weather. When you do something for 8 years, so don't buy today the suit you'll be wearing in 8 years, so look at that deadline, the time we work in, so we have a key problem in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52124	Here's your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52125	Thank you very much, ma'am. You're dark-tartin' on your tail. I'm going to refer to this last part, you know that there are pieces of all-time fashion that you just have to have in your closet. Well, let's just put this aside. As far as the waste management centre is concerned, and their design and the idea itself, I would like to emphasise the fact that no one in the ministry has ever defined in any way that certain technology at the level of the regional or county waste management centre should exist. Eventually they are realized through the system of their owners, so usually they are counties, as you know here and there JLS's and that's what I want to highlight. Where were we and where are we now? I'll tell you where we were at the end of 2016, we were at 26% separation. I'll tell you where we are now according to the 2020 projection, we skipped 40%. We've done it in the last four years, our citizens and all of us together a huge step. No, we haven't reached the 50% target, but we've made a huge step. Let's keep him together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52126	Thank you very much. ... It's tight. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52127	Dear Minister Coric, I'd like to discuss with you, but you're in a privileged position and you have five minutes, as long as you want, I only have a minute, so I have to hurry. So, the elemental difference between you and me respecting the fact that both you and I want well, but you want Croatia, you said yourself, push it, I think you should lead it, you don't need to push it. That was your first sentence. The other thing is when you have nothing to say, then you always turn to money, 3.9 billion, 100 million, 200, and the outcome? The outcome is what we must follow. That's what you and I, like the people who do the work that we do know very well. We don't follow, there's no responsibility, and ultimately what happens? There's a law that wants to ban something. Let me be against the ban of any kind. I also consider whether it is written by Dobrović, Pero, Djuro, Marko, that it would be good for the law to provide for the possibility of doing it far better than defending itself, and we here in the assembly are generators of production just such a one-time waste, so you heard it yourself, now you can continue ad-hominem, however you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52128	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52129	Thank you, Mr. Skoro, and allow me no longer to usurp time on my part so as to dominate time, not content. I'll do that to invite you to coffee and discuss with you this system is whether, if you express your desire and willingness to do so. That's one thing. Second thing, you're a master of words, this pushing is actually a pusher and we need him and we need him. We've given informative and educational activities a push to the economy to take this step over the last four years. This law will give some who think that they can behave as they did 50 years ago a clear sign that it is no longer going that way and it is necessary, that sometimes bans are necessary because there are benevolent ones as you know in every society, and there are malice ones, those who take advantage of the legal framework and actually move on its margins. They're the reason he's stronger than usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52130	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52131	Ministers, you have completely avoided the answer to my clear question in the previous replica and I am now asking you if you have any awareness of what you are actually a minister? On the one hand, you boast about the amounts of resources invested in the construction of the infrastructure, and as if you have completely eliminated the fact that you are also carrying responsibility for the adoption of the Waste Management Plan at national level. And as you are not ashamed to say now that the completeness of the capacity for construction waste in the City of Zagreb is the responsibility of the newly elected Tomislav Tomasevic after decades of cohabitation with Milan Bandic and after being a resolute minister of the long time ago, you should be aware that when the City of Zagreb begins to rebuild that we will have a problem with the management of construction waste, it is by itself that it deserves your resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52132	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52133	Mrs. Oreshkovic, because of the rules of GDPR, I won't be able to come down to your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52134	What does GDPR have to do with this? I'm risking a warning, but what does GDPR have to do with the answer? on my line, so it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Invadica Ćorić: Well you are an expert in GDPR otherwise.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52135	Excuse me a minute, let's let it go now. It was a replica and a reply to the replica, you know it's not like a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We've all been to a brothel in case I can't give a reminder to the Minister you know, and I can, but I can't. I can do it for you, but I won't in this case because there's no reason. We'd better move on. Mrs. Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52136	Thank you. Dear Minister. Here is a list of the amount of all investments the ministry has made in recent times, and you mentioned the Soviet. I think that on the subject of the Soviets and you as Minister and I as chief of staff, we are extremely well-intentioned and that our goal is to move forward with recovery as soon as possible. Can you tell me if you finally arranged a contractor for the start of the Soviet rescue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52137	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52138	As you know, the amount is in itself in the financial envelope, as much as I have information, and now that from... the Secretary of State, the contractor is not yet agreed, and indeed I share your understanding and in fact dissatisfaction with the fact that the cave Soviet has for decades unfortunately been unsettled as a black dot. I believe that this will be agreed in the coming years and that one problem in the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County will be solved in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52139	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas for now. Thank you very much. And now it's the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club or Mrs. Sandra Bencic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52140	Thank you. Dear Ministers and Associates. I'm going to start off different than I imagined, given that you were just talking about waste management centers, so I'm going to comment on this estimated value, what did Minister 1.6 billion say? Watch out for 1.6 billion for four CGOs that are in the bargaining process or for how much? For more 1.6 for more? Okay, here's to illustrate why it can't be true. There has been a tender recently and a tender has been annulled for exactly the right distance for the CGO, so there is an estimated value for you, so the estimated value of this purchase was 246 million kuna, three offers have arrived, of which three offers were the cheapest of 668 million, the next 711 etc. Therefore, the value of this purchase was threefold underestimated. So now tell me what you mean by 1.6 on that example learned, to finance more than four? I thought at least you were thinking of these four that are like in the negotiation phase, so unreal for those four, let alone for more. So it can't be about that amount because the offers that are coming to your competition, so you cancel out, three times the estimated value of your purchase. So something's wrong, so it's not that amount. I'll tell you when I'm at the CGO, so the CGO except that their technology is problematic, except for these two that work create a huge problem and you know that we're getting on a daily basis here in the Committee on the Environment of Citizens' Appeals. These complaints are really not unfounded, they are not unfounded, so people are really hard to live by these centres because of the smell that is spreading, which because of the concentration of harmful substances in the air and in my opinion, they have every excuse to actually ask that something be done with that question. When it comes to technology, so you're still holding on to the CGO's direction as the key infrastructure to take care of the rest of the mixed municipal waste, knowing we're having problems with these two, and when we ask you about the technology that's going to be used, you say, and that's a question of the profession that's going to be solved sometime. When? I mean, we can't write in the law that waste management centres, from, look out now, of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, if we know that those we've done so far are generated by huge problems for the local population, I really can't support it. Next, waste management centres in the karst area, on the cross, talk to people from the PMF, talk to scientists about what they think about waste management centres on the karst field. And now the worst part I've been dealing with for a long time, the Department of Waste Management, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The center is imagined and located above the Bay of Maloston. There is information that the first studies were carried out on whether wastewaters were passing into groundwater and came to the Maloston Bay which are no longer found in a study which is now an official version, and this information I could not get from any of the bodies of the Republic of Croatia because they did not want to give me previous reports and studies. So there's information that it's been shown that within 30 hours, it's reached Maloston Bay. What's the consequence? The result is destruction, so the complete destruction of the possibility of producing stones and shells for a minimum of 100 years in the Bay of Maloston, or they could produce them, but they could not be placed on the market because if the water drops out of the Waste Management Centre containing heavy metals, there is a Maloston Bay, game over. And I can't believe someone would take that risk. You can assure us he can't leak. We know he can always. That's all, we're talking about an area which is a seismically extremely risky area. We're also talking about an area where we can have in the event of a flood exactly this situation to get into groundwater and to get to the Bay of Maloston. And someone's willing to take that risk, I don't get it. Moreover, this very waste management centre will be of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, and what is the Maloston Bay, it is not of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia? Furthermore, I want to say that this law should actually be an opportunity to move from the European bottom to the unsustainable waste management, you know that we are, in fact, the most separate, that we are one of the worst in Europe. However, what is the fact is that the law itself has degraded existing positive provisions, so, for example, the objective of recycling from 60% to 2022, which was prescribed by the Waste Management Plan, has been replaced by a weaker target of 55%. It is also problematic, and I have already pointed out that it again imposes obligations on cities and municipalities to hand mixed waste over to regional centres instead of doing processing in their own facilities. First, the centres charge this expensively, which is why citizens have bigger bills for waste and is also not in line with the principle of proximity. So the idea is that waste is collected, processed, recycled and placed where it occurs, not 100 km away. Not 100 km away. The draft law also transposes the minimum requirements of the EU directive. So the directives, you know, they're, they're setting out some minimum requirements for you, and every Member State can, of course, go beyond the objectives prescribed by the directive, right? They also commit the directives to the objective, not by letter, so we can use this directive now to raise standards in the Republic of Croatia and be what the prime minister said he wanted us to be, which is, and that is, the leader in the green transition. However, in this ambition already other countries, such as Slovenia and Austria, here, neighbouring countries, are cutting us up a lot in this ambition, but also in what they are doing, so Ljubljana is an example of good waste management in all of Europe, while here, very geographically close to Zagreb is one of the worst, right? So as for this particularly prominent problem of plastic bags and single plastic products, we want to say that we as a Green-Left Block Representatives Club have far greater ambition, so we believe that this law should prescribe dates, so also years, when other products are gradually banned for single use of plastics. But why do we advocate it? We advocate this not only to guarantee that we will be removed from single products from plastics, but also to give time for this transition to be fair because we believe that all companies working in the sector should be informed in time and in time know the exact date, when it is over, when it is no longer worth producing, because you will not be able to put in Croatia on the market and that they have to have enough time, and that the Ministry has to give financial instruments to replace technology, replace the old product, produce new products that can be placed on the market and so we do not lose jobs. It is terribly important that, on these starting elements of the green transition, we show that it can be both just and can be created, not destroying existing jobs, and I think it was indeed a mistake that it was not in time last year to clearly uncommunicate, people, 1.1.2022, almost. Here's a competition just for you plasticists, please report for it, replace technology, that they haven't been given technical assistance what to do, what are the possibilities of other products that fashion does from it. So, that should have been done and I'm asking you to do it now for all the other products so people know it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52141	Thank you very much. It is now the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52142	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a new Waste Management Act before us, so the old law, which ends in 2013, so we changed it on several occasions. And I'm thinking about starting this debate from the end or from the beginning. So, what does this law say? This law prescribes measures to protect the environment, human health, prevent or reduce waste production, reduce the negative effects of waste generation, waste management, reduce the overall effects of raw materials use and improve the efficiency of raw materials use, and increase recycling and re-use of recycling, as necessary for the transition to a circular economy and ensure long-term competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. You have nothing to add or take away. The problem of waste is not the problem of yesterday, 21st century is the century in which we deal with climate change, and one of the causes of climate change is that we all treated waste in a non-negotiable way and the EU has clear goals, it has a clear green plan and it is also the minister in the opening explanation, and then in the replica it had detailed. But where is Croatia, where are we? What have we done so far? Where are we and what do we want? That's the key question. Therefore, this law should answer that key question, this law must be enforceable. So the law can have really nice desires and all that sounds nice, but where are we in reality? And that law distinguishes several types of waste, I will refer here to municipal waste, construction waste, and then to some other species. Communal waste where it comes from? We're creating it at home. So in this process we are all citizens who must be educated and encouraged to separate their waste on the doorstep. After that, local self-government units must be ready to drive, ready to deal with this waste further, and the state provides frameworks in which we must all be together. If any of those basic three participants I named don't do their job in the end we have a bad result. How can you encourage citizens to separate? Only by money and in different ways, it's different for family homes, it's different for more residential houses, it's different for different parts of the city. When you get to this assembly, see what the center of the city of Zagreb looks like, flooded with buckets, buckets that are empty or half empty, and it really turns from the white city to something else. Why? Because the city wasn't responsible for it. So the state provides frameworks, and local self-government units must therefore actually make all things possible when it comes to waste management. What has proved to be so far has proved to be not working for us, it has proved so far that the CGO has been going on for three to four years, and that is what the minister said in the design phase and technology cannot be all the same. After four years, the world goes on, just look at the world, would you buy a four-year-old cell phone today? No, we'd buy the latest and the most modern, so we should treat the waste as well. We had a stand-up suit, so I was one of those who was a signator, or equally related to the regulation, because it was shown and we pointed out from this pay phone that this regulation that the government adopted was not in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court took that position. Now we've ironed something in the law, but not until the end. So we need to know what we want, we need to know which way we're going, we need to know what we're doing, so we should see a little bit. The world didn't start with us, nor will it end with us. In the past 20 years, how much money have we allocated, regardless of our budget or EU funds, to waste management? Shutting down certain illegal waste dumps, so if you want to close an illegal waste disposal you have to do something further, somewhere with it you have to ic, it will never be zero and you can't make it zero. Waste can be an additional value, what everyone tells us clearly, which is that climate change, the green economy theme is not cheap and cannot be cheap. You know some countries that have gone far and are not dealing with these basic things that we're dealing with in this law have done the following, it's called urban mining. The ones on which the waste was deposited and finished, again through that urban mining, they take and extract some metals and some new values and earn money. In our case it's not like that, the law should give frames as if it were. And now in law we have some newspaper, one newspaper is a waste from the mining industry and we have a special head in the law that talks about waste from the mining industry, saying what it is. I'm interested in how many mining industries we have at this point in the Republic of Croatia, but what we have is the exploitation of mineral raw materials, we have research, so research into mineral raw materials and we have unsanitary exploitation fields. And what I'm saying is I'm going to do it one more time, and that's the last case of high water on Posjestina, the flood that was from an unsanitary exploitation field of the void, among other things, what you're down there and you've seen is a void. Therefore, the waste has now been decided to put in place a related industry related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, or rather to the mining industry, but this has not been done to the end. There's another newspaper that's in this law, but we still don't see it until the end, which is reuse centers. What are the centers, what are the centers, what's going to happen here, what's going to happen at these centers? So that's something that the law should do, and to me it seems to be one of the elements that we should encourage. And that's where I'll end up refering to construction waste. When you come, you who live in Zagreb see it, and when you come to the assembly you can take a look at it. These works done in Zagreb, people do so themselves and by means of their own means, renewing the consequences of the earthquake, especially when we talk about the Lower City and multi-state buildings. A little look at the construction waste hasn't been driving for a while now. That construction waste isn't just construction waste, except bricks and scraps and all the other stuff out there you have land. The question is why don't you drive away is the first question. And the second question is, what are you going to do with that construction waste? This is an opportunity to take advantage, and I will no longer refer to the City of Zagreb, and I will refer to Banovina and Banovina. There's already some houses going down and what's going on with that demolition, the material that he's got, and I mean bricks and brick products, and that construction waste shouldn't end up being a waste. It should end as a reuse, there is a real experience of some other countries, from which you can do prefabricates, from prefabricateds you can rebuild something with it. What I'm curious about is whether in this law we have enough elements and enough provisions that are related to those reuse centers, is there thought to be construction waste in these reuse centres? I also know some cases in the Republic of Croatia where this is used, so that's what those curbs you're working on in the footpaths, so that's all that comes from recycling construction waste. What they taught me and what they should know, waste, so we've been saying trash recently, we're not talking garbage anymore, waste is some new value. This new value should be recognized, this new value really should be taken into account and waste should not be cost, it may be an opportunity at least that we are at zero. We so far, I don't know any city that's ended up with a waste story at zero. I have those experiences that I have that these cities cost and all that while the cities cost that story won't go forward. And what's extremely important and what we've all forgotten is education. The education of citizens, the encouragement of citizens to really separate on the doorstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52143	Thank you, pretty lady. Dark-Taritash. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, in this case two MPs will represent SDP, Udovic's representative first, and then Mr. Jaksic. - Mrs. Crescent. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52144	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. What about the new proposal of the Waste Management Act? By reading it, so I started from the law-proposing procedure, and that's where I noticed that it was actually a completely non-transparent and non-democratic law. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because the law itself is not proposed under the Information Act, nor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. As far as the very core of the bill is concerned, he can also say, it contains a lot of articles that we can say are undemocratic. In addition to the law-proposing process, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is problematic as I have said the content of the law. As the title itself says, it is not a sustainable waste management anymore, it is a non-democratic law which is in fact just a continuation of inefficient management policy by HDZ waste whose consequences are felt by all residents and the economy of our country. What concerns me especially is the fact that this law introduces small doors to burn-in plants, and especially to the combustion plant of hazardous waste. They turn into objects of national importance and interest. What does that mean? This means that in fact local self-government and regional self-government can or must take on such buildings in their spatial plans and in fact no longer has the authority and ability to decide on their own space. The bill also stipulates that the processing of hazardous waste by the process of incineration and disposal and the waste management centre is of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, and that the locations of the waste management centres, dumps and burners must be planned by means of a document of spatial arrangement, and that these activities can, in fact, be carried out almost all under this proposal of the law. The following key problem provision is that the location where the waste management activity can be carried out does not have to be planned by means of a spatial arrangement document if it is located in the area of municipal, industrial, business or economic purposes. Translated, this means that units of local self-government are forced to plan buildings which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia in their spatial order documents, or as I have already said, are obliged to take planned locations and to align them with multi-level plans. While all other waste management buildings cannot be affected by it, they can actually be built anywhere, even in business and economic areas that are actually often nearby or are part of residential settlements. This rude exclusion of units of local self-government as well as of citizens, public and professions in the decision-making process is the derogation of all constitutional and democratic gains at the first point of protection of citizens' rights and protection of space and the environment, which actually guarantees the right to participate in the decision-making process. In practice, we are aware of the problems that arise as a result of the imposed solutions to the avoidance of expert debates and, above all, the disrespect of citizens, the public and the profession. Unfortunately, we in Viskov know this very well, and every constructive attempt of awareness and a proposal to solve the problem fails before the administration and such legal solutions. Thus, according to the announcements of counterpart Cappellia of the Assembly of HDZ residents of Viskov and the settlements of Marcelli, they can expect in the future and an energy plant imposed certainly against their will, and all so that the political orientation of this government continues in the direction of the waste management centre. Since the establishment of the circular economy, quality establishment of the raw materials market, such a proposal for the law will not happen in the near future, let alone achieve now and thus reduce the objective of separate waste collection from 55% to 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52145	Thank you, Mrs. Udovic. Mr. Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52146	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs good day, nice greeting to all, thank fellow Introduction to the introduction to the very subject and what I must say at the beginning of my debate is that management of waste is certainly not a topic where someone will pick up laurels, get medals and get unconditional applause from citizens of any country not only of our countries, because whenever we come to the topic of waste, everyone is of course thinking about where this dump or the centre will be, how it will be managed. Of course, then the story extends to various interesting lobbies and even that old story from the movies that there's always a mob around the waste, and it's certainly not something where you can collect points and where you can get into it with the theme and the thesis of pulsism. But what we miss, and whenever we talk about waste management plans, we always fall on that test, it's transparency, presentation, getting to know the public and clear numbers and clear plans. Unfortunately, we also see it from this bill. A colleague mentioned Mariščina, I can mention here the Regional Waste Management Centre Piškornica, where European funds are signed, where something is coming, but no one knows what is coming to the end. It took 10 years, the only result was that the former director had escaped from the xy Kuna bonus that you paid for, found a place, a job with solid salary in another waste management system and was hooked up with some people dealing with waste, and today people from the Koprivnički Ivanec municipality and the surrounding areas in our county don't know what to do with it on Piškornica and where to drive because there were also doubts that the centre that was designed as a centre for 4 counties would become a centre for 6 counties. And then, of course, when another law like this comes to ask yourself if it's really possible to find a burner in the end. It is clear to all of us that, with waste somewhere, we must, in a certain way, recover it, that in a certain way we must master it, but in order for citizens to believe in this concept other than education, there is a need for transparency with clear plans and clear goals, clear and fines where it is necessary, but also with clear rewards. Why did I mention rewards? I come from the town of Koprivnica where we sort out 57% of the waste, we have new recycling yards, soon we will have a new compost, so all of what as a unit of local self-government with our utility and with our citizens we have done so far. But apart from the constant wave of some kind of change and possible penalties for those who will not succeed in achieving those goals that the Government imposes on them through this law anywhere mentions in any way how we will possibly be able to honor our citizens and our communal systems that achieve their goals and protect the environment. And not to say how much we're being punished, and that's good in our debate said colleague Mrak Taritas by achieving our goals, which we're making plans, which we're sorting out because on the other hand we've done absolutely nothing to measure ourselves with the aforementioned Ljubljana because our country has no stock market, there's no stock market where these raw materials can be turned into secondarys, and in some stages of the year, depending on the movements of world markets, there's going to be no reward for you and no good thing, but there's just one huge cost for you because you have to pay someone else to take that plastic away from you. And without turning around with a stronger and clearer role of the state, but not with a stronger and clearer role of the state to pass some law here, we bring it down to the county, the cities and the municipalities, so whoever manages great, whoever fails will fail and will talk about it tomorrow. No, that's not the role of the state. The role of the state should be to open the process, to open it to citizens, to open it to municipalities, cities and counties, to open it up to the profession, to simply hear the voice of those people who are expected to absorb these quantities of waste expected, but also to finally step into the waste market in a way that does not release it to private capital that is often suspicious of origin than to the state on clear parameters with clear plans introduces a final stock market and what can be recovered from waste to guarantee the purchase and to protect and help those citizens, those municipalities, cities and counties that are expected to do what we are expected to do for an ecological, sustainable, normal today in 2021. the concept of waste management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52147	Thank you, too. Mr Ljubomir Kolarek will now represent the positions of the HDZ Representatives' Club on this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52148	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Waste Management Act of 190 articles, and when I was on a board yesterday that was very interesting and dynamic and when you see that from that year on, writing the law itself was 1721 a proposal or a reference to the law itself, and on the one hand sitting HGK, HUP, on the other hand, people dealing with environmental protection in the middle of the ministry, then we actually realize that it is not easy to write a law that will be the one to satisfy all sides. But surely one thing is that the new law is better than the old one, and it is certainly better in that part where I am most interested as a parliamentary representative and mayor, and that we can simply enable citizens to have as much quality waste disposal as possible for as little money or to be satisfied with it. And in that respect, In 73rd, the new law allows the introduction of criteria for reducing the price of public service so that certain units of local self-government can introduce discounts for one member, two-member households or households that only compost biowaste or discount for micro and small enterprises, all to encourage further waste separation. It has also been resolved, i.e. one illogicality is that units of local self-government with more than 3,000 inhabitants must have a fixed recycling yard, which means that in our area where the City-Community company Pre-com operates should have six fixed recycling yards which would be very expensive. This is how we're going to have a moveable, and we're going to get a better result in finding and collecting waste, and that's very good. But there are things that we are not happy with or things that should be considered in the second reading, which is art. In 36th on financial guarantees today, none of my predecessors said where they should consider reducing the guarantee per tonne for composts, recycling centres means they're sorters, then processing bulk waste, etc. from 1.125 kuna to a maximum of 500 kuna or change the rule or law to allow guarantees for this type of building to be provided by the unit of local self-government as well as for the disposal of what is written in Art. The 36th century 4th century. We believe that this type of building is significantly less risky to the environment than the dump, and we propose that this will also go to a proposal to reduce it. What I can conclude and agree with colleagues who have said here that waste is business, and so we should watch it and especially when I don't know it before I was spoken by colleague Mrak Taritash, especially for construction waste where we should consider that he is recycled and used and put into maximum use. The fact was said by counterpart Miletic earlier, and a colleague from Koprivnica said that certain units of local self-government today already have over 60 per cent and 65 per cent, respectively, and the question is how to reward these citizens to continue to dump waste zealously. And surely we will do everything in our power in local self-government units to do it, and that our utility companies are doing it in quality, to survive because we believe that no matter how much criticism we hear here today at the waste disposal centers, I will say one thing that we still need 35% of black waste somewhere and it is certain that if I'm not mistaken, Marinscina would not have such smells that Rijeka sorts at least 40%. So we need to encourage JLSs to educate citizens, encourage utility companies or other self-government units to report to competitions. Money for the compost, I don't understand why one Istria doesn't have a compost and a waste sorting facility. I have feelings when a tender is called for to keep the money in the ministry untapped. I think that is how we should encourage JLS to report, to use these funds, because then it certainly wouldn't happen that one Zagreb has to pay 8.8 million kuna, Split 3.1 million, and I think we all need to think together in this direction. The law is certainly a major step forward, it may not satisfy everything, but the HDZ Representatives' Club will support it in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52149	Thank you. It is now Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn to represent the views of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52150	Respected promoters, esteemed vice president, colleagues and colleagues. Waste is one of the most frequently mentioned topics in all parliaments of the world, it is not only Croatia that talks about waste, and I will say that it is one of the most important problems of the day, one of the most important. Unfortunately, there is a lot to talk about, and it is a little bit of a matter, and perhaps it is the most beautiful example in Croatia, and as far as HS is concerned. That's what we're talking about here, and here's all of you who are going to have lunch today at HS you're going to spend a minimum of one of these boxes that won't be recycled, this isn't separating, so this is, so after you guys and your colleagues eat this stuff, you don't throw it away, or we don't have recycling. It's not just about HS, it's about ministries, it's about a number of state institutions. So from this place I call on the competent ministry to first introduce order in those who require order, which is in the ministry or ministry, HS, let's set an example for the Croatian people, let's set an example for everyone in the Croatian state who really needs to be done. Another key problem is, and I've already talked about it, here's "repeitio six mother studiorum", I'll repeat it again. We're actually some kind of caritative Republic because we're giving money to other countries. So, when some regional waste disposal centers and waste disposal, they don't donate, they pay to be taken over by someone else. In the case of the Sibenik Regional Centre, these are Austrians and then for recycled waste, already separated, we pay the Austrians a ton of waste, you wouldn't want to say, 1,000 kuna, for example. And then the Austrians from that waste, you know what they're making, they're producing energy. And now I'm going to ask one question that I've asked here many times, are we normal? So the simple question, so we pay them to take the energy. Can't we do that? Well, of course we could. What's the problem? I see we're rolling, we're rolling. Another thing, and I'm gonna go back to this one again because I have a little more explaining to do. And the other thing I mentioned here was the minister when he was involved with artificial intelligence. Anyway, he didn't get along very well, I can see that wasn't what the ministry was talking about. When I came here from this pay phone a year ago, two days ago in the last session, I mentioned how to introduce a call, tax, sorry, on Facebook, YouTube, they made fun of me, they made fun of me, "Zekanovic would tax the Internet," my face came out on the face of the face-to-face portals, and a few days ago the European Commission made that decision. Thank God. One who also earns in the virtual territory of Croatia and any country in the world should pay taxes. I've been looking at the strangest minister again. I'm talking about artificial intelligence. So if we want to keep up with the most advanced countries in the world already today, be informed because there are systems that are extremely high-quality waste separate, and that's not what people do, but robots do. And remember this thing now, this is the first time spoken in HS in five years. You'll talk about this, but I don't need it in five years, I need it tomorrow. So in normal countries, robots classify waste, not people who are NKV workers and who do it all day long and endanger their health. Let's take it one step further. I assure you in 10 years. household classification will not be necessary. Why? Because it'll all be artificial intelligence or machines. Let's not take the technology that's actually leaving today. So in some countries, Norway, the United States, China in particular, no more picking up waste, putting everyone in the same bucket, some cities trying and later robots sorting it out. Do you understand me? So it's going to happen, it's to you, you know what this is to you right now, it's like we're introducing chalk boards into all the classrooms, and everyone else introduces computers. And they say, that's great, that's the most advanced technology, there we are. You're thinking ahead of time. But at this stage, I'll come back, please, please don't give the money of Croatian taxpayers to anyone. I won't even mind that, I don't know, here, there's a company in Beliss that buys paper, right? Here, and I don't even feel bad about it when, so the Sibenik Bicarac pays Belis to take care of the paper recycled. But it gets on my nerves when we pay the Austrians and then the Austrians produce energy and mock us and speak, those from the Balkans of the hilly, they're really not normal. One more thing no one's ever talked about in the Parliament. You have the so-called so-called. waste crumbs that are bought heavily in Croatia today. For those of you who don't know, here's to the general public, that's the device that's being mounted on the sink. 1,000, two thousand kunas cost and you can really get through that device whatever you want, whatever you want. To grind and then all the things you've produced at home as a waste, where's it going? In the sewers and it's legal. Is that what we want? I don't think so, because then we have one extra load on the collector's sewer systems. Or maybe that's okay? Here, I'd like you to deal with that. So you have thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of devices that are installed annually in Croatian household sinks. And suddenly you have less waste, so in the bins, but you have more material means in the sewer system. So this is something that needs to be taken care of. What you can put, which goes in there, means there's people pushing you absolutely everything. These little expensive ones can literally grind metal and all go into the sewer and load the sewer system, grind plastic, organic matter, whatever. So, deal with it. Finally, I have to criticise the minister here who boasted so little, but I'd have to be a little today, let it be a little bit, which he so boasted, I don't know after whose question, which colleague or colleague, that Croatia grew from 2016 to 2019 as regards recycling from 16% to 18%, did it? Well, my people, if you had 1% recycled and you grew to 1.20%, then of course you grew 16%, but that's nothing. So I always mention the fine example, when Serbia attacked Kosovo and was bombed by America, fell to the bottom, next year was the country with the biggest economic growth. She had a 50% GDP growth when she was 0. So 18% of 1% or 0.5% is nothing. So, the minister's got it pretty good, so somebody really thinks we're growing 18%. No, we're now about recycled waste under every criticism, so very low. So, however, clarity, of course to fellow MPs, is presented to the real data, not to put them in a whole range of numbers and to deceive the Croatian public. So, this is an extremely important issue because environmentalism is no matter what people are suffering from hunger in Croatia, some are really starving, is something that will have to be spoken and done, I would personally be for more radical moves, and I am very interested in how long it will take HS to start detaching this, which we all use today, and not just this, and the ministries. Here, you'll have my criticism or praise the next time you come here. It can be dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52151	And now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn to represent the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU on this Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52152	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Here, as I have already said, in the replica that we have yet to see another recycled waste law before us, and that the most important thing that the applicant's seriousness is that only after the public debate has been concluded after 5 months is heeded, which I think is inadmissible. The proposal itself has only one goal, and this is to make small modifications to try as long as possible to keep the existing criminal waste management system in the Republic of Croatia. The law is proposed although no analysis has been made of the objectives of the Waste Management Strategy adopted as early as 2005 and its compliance with the new EU waste directives. The legal ban on the placing on the market of single plastic bags instead of prescribing mandatory quantities of recycled content in these bags will not lead to a reduction of plastic pollution in the Republic of Croatia, but only to the abolition of about 800 jobs in companies that have financed their production capacities from EU funds in good part. In addition to the ban on single plastics, the law makes no suggestion or guidance for waste recovery, which is in fact the only key to the solution to existing pollution. We remove light bags, and we encourage thicker plastic bags containing more plastics, which should definitely be decomposed for longer, or we will ban all bags or we need to think about how recycled it is in them. Further enforcement of waste management centres with mechanical-biological waste treatment technology from the 1970s, for which processing products, means waste fuel, we have neither planned nor built capacity for energy recovery and at the waste disposal rate of 30%, we absolutely cannot meet the requirements of the new EU Directive. We buy state-of-the-art planes for our Air Force, which is commendable, and we use '70s technology to process waste. So far, only two centres have been completed in the programming period since 2014-2022, likely to end another of 13 envisaged, and all face the same problem, where raw materials are produced from waste treatment. On several occasions, the minister declared that all the centres would be completed by 2022, and I guess that's the only promise of the government that I look forward to not being fulfilled. Unfortunately, through the decisions of the city councils that I've noticed happening in some cities, it seems they're trying to push the burners to a small door, which I don't think is right for the citizens, and certainly not good. It's one thing that came up with us in Kutina, even though we have a chemical industry that pollutes space enough, I don't think there's room for any combustion plant, so it has the minimum minimum emissions of toxic gases across Europe. The importance of the bill is to continue to allow non-transparent management of the system for the management of specific categories of waste in the assignment of jobs on non-market principles to companies that are at the mercy of the ministry. Thus, for the beneficiaries of the specific category of waste, the draft law provides for a procedure for granting authorisations which, in real terms, constitutes the award of concessions which are not provided for by law. This shall be discriminated against by all processors with a valid authorisation for the management of the waste concerned, and shall not be engaged at the same time in the collection of waste. In accordance with the proposal, the Fund shall enter into a contract only with an authorised processor selected by the Ministry, which is also a waste collector. According to the above, the selected processor is in real terms the organisations imposed by the ministry on the manufacturer. The process itself of selecting an authorised processor, and thus collecting by principle which completely excludes market criteria, such as the most economically favourable offer, potentially opens wide the possibility of corruption, lawsuits, lawsuits which have so far been against the Ministry and the Fund. The provisions of the laws of the waste management system favour the Environmental Protection Fund and prevent an equal competition in waste management business. As regards the fund and the payments paid into the fund, they are not tax taxes and simply cannot be considered a tax body. The proposal for this law has been adopted in order to further support different groups whose only interest in waste is to continue to earn fat while waste problems with waste are only accumulated and pushed under the carpet until we are punished and foamed for failing to meet what we signed as a state in the pre-accession contract and the adoption of the EU Waste Directive. Who's gonna pay? They will pay, of course, citizens through the budget, and those who have made fat money will certainly not give their money for it. I'm sorry that the minister won't listen to the debate of the MPs, obviously it doesn't matter what we MPs are saying here and I invite him to come to Kutin not to announce at the municipal waste dump to see how the waste lords at a decorated dump that was fenced by a high fence on which until a few years ago security guards were allowed today to recycle the waste, to stay there, to blow up waste from the dump and to throw it into the nearby stream that Kutinica takes to Lonjsko polje, Sava. I invite him to come see every day in the south corner of the smoke column where the waste is burned to remove what is not metal. Despite the city government's warning, no one reacts to it, not firemen, not the police, not the city administration. A certain group of people are harassing and poisoning a certain part of the Kutina, which is not affected by the ministry or anyone else, and here we are talking about light bags and their pollution. Here's another call, I'm offering as a guide but you have to come unannounced because otherwise they'll all be removed and you won't see what's going on. Just because the city government's policy was to charge for the transport of waste under one cubic area free of charge at the municipal waste dump, while this worked out was not in nature, and now it piles up across the Lonj field and the Kutin agricultural surfaces, canals, water streams, forests that are full of waste, which will cost far more of all those who pay in the budget, and on the other hand the pollution is getting bigger and more deaf each day. Try to think about it because it's supposed to be a legal obstacle for these people to bring free waste into dumps, but I think it's better to change the law and allow that free shipping to a dump than to delay it in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52153	Thank you, too. Up to 12.30 breaks to clear the air. Thank you. I'll see you at 12:30. MEETING AT 12:18 A.M. We're working on it, thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] Now it's Madam's turn, we move on to individual debates, Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear advisors, we are now likely to have a state secretary soon, colleagues and colleagues, and here at the beginning, as I come from Sibenik-Knin County from the town of Vodice, I am pleased to read that from 2005 to the end of 2019 we closed 224 dumps of waste, as the town of Vodice has just closed its dump Leć. During this period, the renovated dumps 189 and 9 have been more than since 2015 and the same storage site of Leć in the town of Vodice has been renovated, with 2 centres for waste management of Marinščina and Kaštijun, and 2 centres are in the construction of Bikarac and Biljana Donja. Namely, Bikarac is in the area of the town of Sibenik, Sibenik-Knin County and there is already a city of Vodice delaying its waste. What I would like to talk about in this debate I think is what our citizens are most interested in, and this is about the price of waste disposal, and they will certainly be interested in whether this new law, of course, when the second reading and entry into force and when the units of local self-government make their decisions will be higher or lower. As stated in the law, the price structure of public service will consist of the price for the quantity of mixed municipal waste sold and the price of compulsory minimum public service or so on. the fixed part and this previously stated variable part. When it comes to the price of mandatory minimum public service, the law further states that we will have a single price in the category of household users and that other single price in the category that is not a household with the provision of the law that units of local self-government mean cities and municipalities can also adopt certain criteria for reducing these prices. As I said I come from Vodice from Sibenik-Knin County in our area there are very many facilities which are mostly closed for most of the year and only in summer are rented or staying owners of the facility which is a big problem for all of ours, because we need to know that these facilities, although they are mostly a large part of the year closed, should come a car, and someone should pay all this together. I would once again return to this price structure when it comes to public service exactly what is involved in this service. It means collecting mixed municipal waste, biowaste, recycling waste, bulk waste, and the waste collection service in the recycling yard and transport and sale services of waste to an authorised person. In the next Article 65, when it comes to public service financing, the mixed, exporting of mixed municipal waste, biowaste and bulky is financed from public service and contractual penalties and can also be financed by the city or municipalities, while waste that is recycled as well as the waste collection service will be financed mainly from waste packaging and funds collected by the collection of waste management fees and will be financed by the fund. The service of transport and transfer of waste to an authorised person is not present under paragraph one or two, meaning neither that it is financed from the price of the service nor that it will finance the fund, there are cities, municipalities, and I think it is a major problem and the island. Here, uh, I heard that there are also on the island of Rab and Lopar there are certain that these costs are extremely high, given that transport should be all the way to the city of Rijeka and regardless of the co-financing of the funds of the fund, that a large part of which will remain as a cost to the municipalities and the city, or to the citizens themselves. At this unique price of providing a minimum public service which is classified in a category that is not a household, there will be a category of meanings, that category will include a small tenant and church and some craftsmanship and hotel. If we leave the GRO at a fixed amount, We won't have the motivation to charge by quantity. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52156	Thank you. Thank you very much. You have replicas, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52157	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. We've heard a lot in these debates in front of clubs, and from the minister himself, that essentially regional waste management centres are something we need. But, of course, in order for that to happen, it takes a lot more, a lot of time. Do you think that essentially regional waste management centres are something that can speed up this whole story and lead us to the goal we set for ourselves by 2025?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52158	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52159	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. Here, as I said at the beginning, I am pleased to see that two centers are in construction, among other things, that it is Bikarac in the area of Sibenik-Knin County. However, ever since it started to build these management centres, we can see that only 2 of us are in construction and 2 of the centers already have, which shows that we have big problems here, that regardless of the EU funds provided, we need large and very complex documentation, and if this goes on at such a pace, we will have a lot of problems in the future precisely to delay waste in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52160	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52161	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, of course, the price of waste disposal is what certainly concerns our citizens most, and I agree with you that, except for the variable part where citizens themselves will be able to affect how much they have taken care of and separated, that share in the price, but as far as the fixed part is concerned, I'm afraid, which they can't influence, I'm afraid that this part will eventually grow to a large extent a variable part, and that what concerns our citizens is because in that fixed part of our communal companies in the local environment will have to include all the costs they have, and there will be an increase in the number of waste disposal in view of the separate disposal of waste and other costs of buying cans, everything else that goes into the fixed part, so I think that there should be considered, especially in multi-state buildings how it will be resolved to be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52162	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52163	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. Right now, I haven't been allowed to finish everything on that subject to say, what you're saying is, if the GRO is valued exactly on the fixed area, then there will be no motivation to be as little mixed waste that's being driven away. So it should be because of citizens' motivation that most prices refer to what they will each day delay and throw because they will then be more motivated to sort more. But indeed, from the maintenance of sortery, recycling courtyards, construction, transport, anything related to bulky waste and everything required by the municipal enterprise, it will not be possible if the price of the fixed part is low and this one is higher to motivate citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52164	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52165	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. So I wanted to say the same thing in my replica on the subject of price and on the subject of this variable part. But you were the longtime mayor of Vodice and you well know that waste is absolutely a problem of waste, when it comes to tourism, different in summer months, like all infrastructures, you actually have to work for those,... For the highest number, and most of the year, you don't have that, let's say it's a three-month tourist season, and we're lying, but let's make it three months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have to function in one other way for the remaining nine months. So that's always the problem, and the plumbing, the problem and the power supply, you have to have the power supply for that largest number, but there's the problem and that fixed part of the waste because you have to have to function in those summer months. Is that the picture you're sending? What are the right solutions? I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52166	Time. Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52167	Thank you very much, colleague Dark-Taritash. Well, I just said, it's gonna be interesting to see how it's gonna come from a number of cities and municipalities, certainly very different because, as you said, nine months a year, it's gonna take a car with a driver and a job to get to a certain apartment, a facility where nobody's gonna find it, and certainly, if we look at just that variable part, it's going to be 0 kuna. If this fixed is very low, it won't be possible to cover the costs of this whole dead walk in the winter months. Get equipment, get, hire employees of the sortery and all that will be needed to take care of the bulky waste and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52168	Mr. Boric. Oh, no, it's already a debate. No more replicas. Mr. Boric, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52169	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The waste management law is certainly one of the laws we've been waiting for for for a long time, but I think it's finally, at least after the debate, I see, close to being hit completely and that by the second reading we can fix some of the other situations we've seen, and maybe they're looking for a little more repair. As far as our country is concerned, it is really different from, in many parts of its geographical distribution, so different ways of life from the Adriatic to the continent with many specificities, simply no law like this can only be settled through one article let's say all of our ways of life, so when we talk about waste management itself. Why do I say that? So here's why we've heard that top burden, let's say on the Adriatic, is 1.8, when we have an additional million tourists in that area, residents who come temporarily and in the continental part that lives in a uniform way means 365 days. Put it in an article that will then optimise such a story about waste management simply isn’t the best or the easiest thing to do. I think that this law now finally affects the wishes of local self-government, but also the compromise of the state in relation to the meaning between some of the variables that have emerged in the sense that they have not satisfied us in part of the sustainability of the system itself in terms of the collection of the whole story when we talk about waste. And that's a story that costs money, and it's going to cost you even more in the future because we have different behaviors. And today we had a chance to hear the story of waste management centers. They are our reality and will be in the future and what we had in 2015 is not equal in 2020, and today in 2021. It's much better than it was last year. We have centers that are built, centres that choose performers and that will be built in the next 2-3 years and covered the space of the Republic of Croatia as it is still imagined I think somewhere in 2005. We had a period of 10 years that didn't work. We learned something through those access funds, but we didn't realize the story. Why? Because the cheapest thing to do is to empty the waste or the garbage like we say it in some place that was a dump and it doesn't cost anything. Many avoided such an obligation because it was the cheapest. Today, when we are squeezed by these policies and by European ones, but also by our desire to deal with sustainable development and to protect the environment, we have closed down here we have heard over 200 dumps. So we're resuscitating space, and what we've closed has to be driven to some other space or to some dumps that have remained open or to waste management centers that work. As soon as you're driving downtown, it costs more than emptying your truck out there somewhere in some space that's been or is still a dump. That story costs money. Why does it cost? Because paying for the truck, its cost, two or three employees who take care of the waste and the discharge is not the same as paying for those same trucks and the same people plus the separate waste paper, glass and all that you collect plus mixed municipal waste that you then take to a particular center as we do in our county. It's a different story and it costs something. That is why this law finally gives us as local self-governments and communal societies the opportunity to optimise ourselves the price of minimum public service, to say our system at the level of the year costs so much in that part that has been committed so far, and to collect all that special waste and not to charge it to citizens just to charge through the variable part of the price of mixed municipal waste because we also drive it to that centre. All other raw materials taken over by the repairers were now paid from that price to the minimum public service. Who managed to reconcile some kind of relationship did not deal with losses. The one who made the problem a little bit made a problem, but what the state is doing here now. This law. They say we will co-finance you not to fly it over to our citizens as another motive in that part means minimum public service. We'll help you by co-financing from the fund to pay your expenses, and that's not a small cost. We had a discussion on the board, and I said today, so 1,000 kunas of glass plus a ride to Zagorje to us from Rab, 2,000 tons of plastic you pay for, I don't know what you get just as a payment to you as a communal society, a clean sheet baled that you sell to someone and will give you some 70 kuna per tonne and pay you a transport because it pays them, if there's more mixed paper in it, you're already paying someone else. So that's a story that costs, but this law offers cooperation, help and that's good. Thank you for listening. I'm saying we can function without any major problems. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52170	You have replicas. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52171	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Boris, we have seen that this law essentially prohibits one part of plastic products, something that has been practically a daily life since the adoption of this law will no longer be so. Do you think that bans and which can significantly improve the situation when it comes to waste, come of course from an island where it creates a particular problem or there are perhaps other things like education or any other people learn how to deal with waste, especially if we want to protect the environment, especially when it comes to the Adriatic coast, and of course also about the continent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52172	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52173	Thank you, colleague Ivanovic, so these plastic bags were the biggest enemy of the environment, especially where we have open dumps and where waste means empty to an open dump and no selected waste. It flies you through the air, in the sea, in the forest ends up in all sorts of ways especially in the Adriatic areas where you have big winds, etc., from storms, south, and I think that we who live on the island have seen what it means to apply all the laws that the state has given us, as a possibility, to use the funds that the fund provides for the construction of cargo stations, the recovery of dumps, etc., are very minimal means of own participation to solve the problem that lasted for decades. You come to Rab today you won't see another bag anywhere at least on that dump up there that flies in nature because it's a rehabilitated dump. Everything else is done at the loading station and in the recycling yard. We drive everything off the island, and that's a new value for us to say to every tourist. There's no more waste on this island that stays here, we drive everything and take care of it through recovery. So that's what's worth, what the state benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52174	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52175	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative, you come from the island, you were also head of local self-government, and you are aware that in fact one part of the owners of the cottages are co-financed or aided by locals in waste disposal because they actually pay for waste disposal all year round. We are aware that most of these owners of the cottages come down for a month, possibly two, and the waste disposal pays, though, in a slightly reduced amount of this amount of 12 months. Is there a plan with you in local self-government and a general plan for the others... Especially for the islands that this amount of owners weekend houses to kind of reduce and that they actually participate in the smaller part? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52176	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52177	Thank you very much. So when we talk about owners of objects that sometimes live in Adriatic areas, we have a problem because if we have to pay for a piece of water that I don't use all year round, they have those fixed costs that's fine. If we pay, say, the cost of electricity and everything else, those fixed costs, that's fine. When we have to pay for the waste, it's no longer right. But that's where we came up with this law. So he allows the decision that he will make means a representative body in terms of the criteria that he will contain to reach the price list will assess what they can mean for everyone in his local self-government to do that and that part if he has put more burden on someone, and you may think of it as temporary residents who come down to us in summer, that it is then adjusted to not pay more than they have paid now, but that this cost then, given that we introduce funding, means co-financing through that minimum public service price, that fixed part of the sustainability of the system, shifts to co-financing of the state and there is a lot of space that will think well and reflect its policies on waste management, so there is quite a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52178	Thank you very much. And Mrs. McNally. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52179	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you were talking about this relationship with the price of a fixed and variable part. We know that the variables will depend on the amount of committed mixed municipal waste and we strive to make our citizens more separate in the future and make these quantities as little as possible, especially on the specificity of your place Lopara, Rab, meaning it's an island, it's a place that has a very many weekend facilities, and it's also a lot of fixed costs. Does it seem to you that in the future, the less these quantities of mixed municipal waste will, in the future, have to increase the price or the fixed portion?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52180	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52181	Thank you very much, dear colleague Yurichev. So we know how much the system costs us in one municipality over the year. So if that's 2 million kuna, I'm telling you that this variable part is very small, about 200,000 kuna. Not every citizen will just give you a bucket, especially in the winter months. What's the big deal? So if you put one bucket out in a month, you let that bucket get to a different smell that doesn't satisfy what we want, which is to be clean, that doesn't smell like it. And to encourage him, it means that he often gives that bucket it must not be expensive, and that's where we come into conflict between the minimum public service and the variable part itself. Whoever guesses how it should be no problem, means we did what we thought was right, which is that the minimum public service price is the biggest part because it saves the system and takes care of the largest part, which is 50% of the total waste, which is waste to special categories, and mixed municipal waste is just one part. And there's some compromise to be asked not to burden too many people because it depends on them, if you didn't give the bucket you didn't charge, that doesn't mean that it's not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52182	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. And now it's Madam. Marijana Petir, after which we will move towards taking a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, State Secretary, Director, MPs and MPs. The European acquis as a legislative framework in the field of environmental protection can at this time be seen as the world's best legislative framework, but also as a top-notch practice for environmental care. The structure of this legislative framework is ambitious based on democratic principles and principles of sustainable development that allow for the preservation of natural resources for future generations of Europeans. It is logical that Croatia through its Waste Management Act should and wishes to follow these ambitious objectives not only because of European legislation but also because of our specificities. We are a country that has almost half of its territory protected in various categories of the Nature Protection Act, we are small contaminants in regional and global terms, the Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean. Our peasant food is still traditional, and 20% of Croatian GDP comes from the tourism sector. That is why we must take care of our resources, but also our strategic advantages in order not to endanger them with their actions. Only legislation will not be enough in efforts to bring our common home into order, it takes a change of behaviour. Pope Francis rightly warns us in his Encyclica Laudato You are that people no longer recognize their own position in relation to the world and adopt themselves a self-sufficient and self-centered position based solely on them and on their own power. From there comes the logic of “buy, use and throw” which justifies every form of rejection, whether it is environmental waste, food waste, and even the rejection of the human himself. Such logic treats another man and nature as a mere object, thus leading to countless forms of supremacy. To change this logic, law and money are not enough, we need to change our habits and behavior, and every change needs motivation and education process. Therefore, economic and political objectives should be based on ecological objectives which assume a change of attitude and practices so far established. This law, resulting from a political decision, proposes economic instruments for waste management that should contribute to the realisation of these ecological objectives. In order to adapt to the circular economy, new higher waste separation and recycling targets are also set by 2035. and new lower waste disposal targets and 3.7. In 2021, it prohibits the placing on the market of certain single plastic products and since 1.1.2022. plastic bags for carrying the thickness of the rock less than 50 micrometers, which is an approach that goes much wider than the European Directive. Manufacturers of plastic products whose use will be prohibited should be helped to move from old to new technologies in the context of the green transition to be sustainable, friendly to the environment, but to manage to preserve jobs. In this context, I find it important to point out once again that the activities of the Ministry of Economy, which through the recently launched tender, are projected by the producer up to 7.5 million kuna for the transition to new production technologies, should continue the future as well. The theme of waste management is really very extensive, leaving no one indifferent, so I have to say a few sentences here about plans to build a dump of radioactive waste in the Trade Mountain which I strongly oppose. I believe that Croatia can address this problem in dialogue with Slovenia as well as the European Directive enables us and that there is no need to build a dump of radioactive waste in Croatia. I would also like to warn that in the Kutina near Petrochemia, at the very entrance to the PP Lonjsko polje is a dump site of dangerous phosphogypse waste, which is dominated by a state-owned company. Competitions heading towards privatisation of the company do not require the future owner to resuscitate the phosphogypse dump, and I think this must change because such views are contrary to the interests of the local population. and I therefore call on national interests to take this problem seriously and to ensure that the state provides mechanisms for the resolution of this black spot. ... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52184	Excuse me. But you have a replica. Here you go, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52185	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Petyr. Protecting the environment and climate change will certainly be the biggest challenge in years to come. In your debate, you mentioned something that I think is very important, which is a change in behavior. What do you think would be the most effective thing to do when it comes to changing the behaviour of all of us stakeholders and time and everything we have in view of everything that this consumerism and other things have entered into Croatian society, and we are just a small, small part of that global world. But I think and agree with this thesis that without changing the behavior of all of us, the simple goals we have set will be difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52186	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52187	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanovic. So I think that logic buys, uses, throws should be replaced by the logic of the circular economy in that sense, surely we need a change in behavior that can be achieved by education and a change in mentality. This certainly is not a simple process is not enough because of this law and there are various economic instruments that aim to encourage citizens and units of local self-government, the whole system completely in a different way and access to separate waste collection and as much recycling and as little disposal as possible. And in that sense, I would say that we need this change of attitude that Pope Francis also calls ecological conversion, which is closely linked to the political and economic objectives that need to be compatible with the environmental objectives, otherwise we will not succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52189	We continue to discuss the law with individual debates. The first one is an honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52190	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So we have before us the first reading of the Waste Management Act. This century 21st century is the century in which we will deal with climate change, the century in which we will deal with the problem of waste, the century in which we will deal with the problem of wastewater. When it comes to wastewater, this law clearly states that it does not refer to the problem of wastewater, but wastewater treatment devices on devices is a major problem of mud and mud management is a special problem and it would be good that if this law introduced the problem of waste from the mining industry that it had little to deal with the problem of mud, but that is how it is. So who in this waste management process is key? Our citizens are key, citizens must be through education, but through another series of measures they must really encourage to separate waste on the doorstep. And I'll continue to discuss where it was stopped by free speech, and where my predecessors spoke the way the price will be formed. So this is a very sensitive question, a question that really needs to be taken into account, this relationship between the variable and the fixed part. It is clear to all of us that this fixed part has to be determined if it has to go and do the sorting and buying cans and getting trucks and everything else, but this variable part is extremely important because it is the only way you can encourage us all to separate the waste and to separate the waste on the doorstep. The way it is separated and the way it is driven cannot be the same in all the cities in Croatia. Look at the City of Zagreb, I often talk about it is it something I know. In the City of Zagreb you can have one model where there are family houses, another model where there are multi-state houses, and the third model must be for the center of the town of Gornji and Lower City because we must not be affected by what we have today that our city is actually flooded with buckets. This could have been solved in another way and solved absolutely and buried containers and chipped containers and chipped bags and all others, so this is something that this law provides some frameworks, but also something that will be safe in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government or the mayor of the City of Zagreb. In this process, when we talk about municipal waste, we have three actors, one of the actors is citizens who really need to be encouraged to keep as much waste away as possible. Other actors are units of local self-government that a number of things must provide and a third actor is a state that must agree on some frameworks and some parameters and give certain conditions in the law. Special subject, I'm not going to refer to some of the things that have been through a public debate, but it's that we have to go on our own. There, about two years ago, we reached the conclusion that we asked HS, and then all the ministries and all the state bodies that in the cafes, so it was about a year before the crown, or before the covid, not to use plastics, to use plastics, not to use straws, so all that we have in the law and, of course, hypocritically how it was answered by the government that they were taking care of it, but when conditions were obtained, and also from the assembly where the meeting president here said that it would be taken care of. The Assembly also told us, or the secretariat, that this is not possible now. In this way, so you can show in different ways that you are keeping an eye on each other, it is one way that the Republic of Croatia could show that it is keeping an eye on and keeping pace with other governments, with other parliaments, but of course it is not. And now that there are directives now important to us in the law, we have that. So I absolutely think that the law must define some things but I don't see any reason why we haven't already done it and we could have done it and shown what we want. I'm left with relatively little, what we didn't mention, and what I think should be mentioned, and the leaders of the local self-government unit will know what I'm talking about are the communal directors. So another role of community directors is the role of waste. The communal monks we have that are hard to come by, who are relatively few at the moment I think they're doing everything I think they don't seem to break up marriages or are not in the divorce process or I don't know in some other And it just seems to me that I should take care of it, but here's the time I've been through, so there's no way to go any further. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52191	Next individual debate, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52192	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State and Director, we have before us a proposal for the Waste Management Act, which is an upgrade to the efforts that have been made so far to keep Croatia clean, but to produce new values from the waste, which are also energy and new products, raw materials, so that there are moments some have talked about, which is the burning of waste. In fact, there are hundreds of energy plants across Europe as well as worlds that are used by waste that cannot be used differently, energy is produced. So I think that the new and higher objectives defined by this law are certainly a good thing that will contribute to further progress, development, the cleanliness of our homeland, and also to waste that will become a new value and will not be covered by the earth. We believe that the objectives set clearly define progress and new methods. Public interest is the collection, transport and processing of waste to put it as much as possible in the function of production and new products. We believe that, as well as the good intention of the legislator who appealed through all the articles of the law, something once lost, and this collection, transportation, processing or recovery, all of this stands, and all of this is clearly defined in this law, and I welcome it. I welcome the adoption of this new law, I welcome everything that has been well done but because of the practice so far, because of those things that need to be substantially changed, I would add some elements that will improve this law and that would separate the positions of recovery collectors and clearly define who is who. In this way, much stronger and better control can be achieved, so the objectives can be even better encouraged, so that collectors such as Article 59 clearly and told how much they are expected to collect certain electronic waste, how much to collect, how many vehicles or what, those collectors must have as a Holy Scriptures the task and I am the view that Article 97, after paragraph 1, should go to paragraph 1a. In order to meet the objectives of separate collection of electronic waste referred to in Article 59, the person intending to enter into a contract with the waste collection fund shall be obliged to obtain the authorisation, and the fund or ministry shall, if it fulfils the conditions, grant such authorisation. The authorisation shall be granted to a person who fulfils the conditions to have adequate rolling stock and to assist in ensuring the collection of appropriate waste throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that may be what may be left out in this legislative proposal. And it clearly moves with it at the very beginning, as I said in Article 8. It is clearly defined what is the public interest of this law and what it is to collect, transport and process waste. This is all described in the following text, clearly defined, numbered for all types and categories of waste, but here I also ask the Secretary of State to consider until the second reading, to continue to make specific consultations, that my remarks that are not so watchful or frightening, and certainly will contribute, given that practice says that there are certain things that are defined in the repairer that there are various possibilities of manipulation. In order to avoid this, I propose that these two articles be defined just like this, and in the third, only add more "gathering" as defined in the objectives at the very beginning of this law. So here's thank you for preparing this Waste Act and I ask you that this, for me, is a picnic, and for the further system a very good thing, consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52193	Next individual debate, respected representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52194	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the proposal of the Waste Management Act, and at the very beginning I would like to point out that the SDP Club also submitted a proposal for a law that was discussed here in HS last year in February, in which we asked for a ban on the marketing of plastic bags and certain products for single use. All in order to reduce the negative impact on the environment, in particular on water, the marine environment, human health, and to contribute to the establishment of a circular economy. The government rejected this even though the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Directive on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment were transposed. We have thus missed the opportunity for Croatia to be at least the first in something and it is presented to the European market that we are not only a country that cares about the environment but also creates a space for an innovative and new industry and to take advantage of this European market. But now that we've got our fingers crossed by the EU, we're introducing these changes that could have been brought to life long ago by the basis of our bill. I would also point out that the key problem of this proposal is to exclude the public and deny the constitutional right of the local self-government and thus their population, because through this proposal the laws of the firehouse of hazardous waste are converted into objects of national importance and interest, and that the locations of the waste management centre, dump and combustion plants must be planned by means of a document of spatial planning, and that these activities can be carried out by almost all. As well as that the location where the waste management activity can be carried out does not have to be planned by means of a spatial arrangement document if it is located in the area of municipal service, economic or business purposes. In other words, JLSs are obliged to take planned locations and align them with multi-level plans while all other waste management buildings cannot be affected in any way, but everyone can build them anywhere, even in economic areas that are often near residential settlements. I would also refer to the process of removing waste status. In order to eliminate waste status, it is necessary to attach a bunch of documentation and the process of removal itself takes months. Which is why I'm giving the D.O.S. to investigate. In the whole story of waste management, there is a large number of documentation that must be made when opening composites in terms of various work permits and elaborates to re-seek all of this in the process of removing waste status and creating unnecessary administrative problems. Elimination of waste status should be derived from the work permits and elaborates themselves, as they cannot be obtained unless it is demonstrated that the process on the compost and obtaining composts is acceptable organic waste. The main problem is poor education of citizens with regard to classification and general awareness of the importance of biowaste collection. By separating we save and preserve natural resources and reduce the amount of waste that returns to nature. Without separate waste collection and recycling, the waste management system is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52195	Next individual debate, respected representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52196	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we have talked a lot about this new proposal of the Waste Act. As I said on behalf of the club, I will repeat again, it is a non-transparent and non-democratic bill. In fact, this bill continues to sustain life-long a system that is opposed to public interest and environmental protection. He's even less ambitious and has a lower goal and now he's 55% by '25. And we took off this 5% to make it easy on ourselves, hoping that we can get to this one somehow. What's devastating about this system is that we continue to force waste management centres, but here they are now assisted by building a burner. There's been a lot of talk about waste management centers today, but maybe there's a little more to it. The minister said that the counties, or units of regional self-government, were the ones who chose technology. That's not true. It is not true for the first two centres, so for the Mariščin and Kaštijun centres, this was done by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. And what happened? We got out-of-date technology, so-called. NBO technology, the technology that should definitely be abandoned. These two existing centres should be adapted to real conditions, and in accordance with the principles of environmental protection and circular economy. I mean, there's a lot of trouble following these two centers, but I'm going to point out the biggest ones. In addition to waste fuel which, instead of the idea of paying these centres, their disposal must be paid to those who are willing to provide them, must be exported abroad, and those who are located in the Republic of Croatia can receive extremely small quantities. In fact, the problem other than waste fuel in these two centers is the amount of waste. Namely, the centres are designed in a way that no peaks are envisaged, actually periods when we have a much larger amount of waste, these are summer months, and the general capacity of the plant, and what is most important are the global disturbances in the market for secondary raw materials. So we now have a situation that public service companies are not really worth any decommissioning and recycling of waste, but the cheapest thing to do is to take all the waste to the centres as a matter of principle, is to make it hard for me to move on to another. Without strong government interference in this aspect of the system, the results will be getting worse and worse, and the objectives set are becoming more and more unattainable. It is paradoxical that those whose waste is taken care of in an ecological way and in accordance with all strategic plan and legal regulations pay considerably more than those who do not do so. To increase the paradox due to waste fuel disposal, the use of biodrying technology and the recovery of pollution resulting from this high price will continue to rise. And what is particularly important is to stress that the concept in which all pollution is concentrated in one place in professional and scientific knowledge has long been abandoned. And I need to look again at the provision of Article 31 that talks about burning municipal waste capacity over 3 tons per hour. There's no big difference whether it's 2 tons, whether it's 1 ton per hour, it's important to include the public because you can practically get a municipal waste burner in your backyard without being informed about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52197	Replica, respected representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52198	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Udovic, in your debate, you have stated that this proposal is harmful and undemocratic, and this is accompanied by the fact that by ruling in this bill with the help of your party staff at the top positions of local self-government, they will be able to build burn plants wherever they wish. And as I have already cited in my debate even there in some economic areas that are close to residential settlements and thus excluded both the public and the profession from the process. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52199	Well, that's how we read the law all here, it's a few times in the assembly today and it's been stressed, and I really think that the amendments still get to change this proposal right here in this part where it's about public involvement. I hope that the proposer of this amendment will accept and accept and that, indeed, in cooperation and local self-government and regional ones, we will find the best solutions in order to actually take care of and dangerous waste, but also for the processing of communals, in particular, talk about burn plants can come into your environment with the consent of people who manage self-government or with the consent of the public and local population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52200	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52201	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, counselors, I welcome all of you together, so this law will contribute to the prevention of waste generation and its reuse. Reading the bill shows that procedures are simplified not only for the recovery of waste, biological recovery, the recovery of waste oils for the production of biofuels, the recovery of wood waste, but also the introduction of a new concept of decategorisation of waste that we have not had so far. In fact, it means that reuse centres will have a simpler way for some products that have ended up in recycling courtyards or similar to tools and devices, textiles, shoes, parts of bulk waste to be taken care of or processed, processed in such centres where they will eventually be cleaned and repaired and given further for sale. It will certainly contribute to the reduction of the amount of waste here. This proposal also amends provisions relating to the incentive fee. It is evident that the ministry has accepted proposals coming from local self-government units so that the criteria for the level of incentive fees are no longer the quantities of waste from 2015 but are now taken into account the actual amount of separate waste in the current year. This is good because we are all aware that neither the system nor the data in 2015 were really sufficiently developed and evened so that this proposal more justly determines exactly this incentive fee. And as much as this encouraging compensation to local self-government units is actually a financial burden to municipalities and cities, it is also a good motive to reduce the proportion of mixed municipal waste that arises right in the area of the local self-government unit. It is also important that the funds collected in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund continue to be invested in improving the waste management system in municipalities and cities. The co-operation between the ministry and the fund that has been regulated and this legislative proposal is evident from the ongoing competitions, and the fund is co-financed and the transport of waste from the island, the supply of containers, other municipal equipment, the recovery of wild dumps. These are all significant assets that individual units of local self-government do not have and will certainly help to ensure sustainable waste management in less developed municipalities or cities and geographically isolated areas. The draft law lays down new objectives until 2035 for the increase, separation and recycling of waste and the reduction of waste disposal and prohibits the placing on the market of certain single plastic products of sticks, straws, accessories for eating and similar and plastic bags for carrying less than 50 micrometers, with the exception of very light plastic bags for carrying, which is in compliance with the directives in the field of waste management and the adoption of waste management plans at the level of the county, the competences in the separation of permits and the keeping of eyewitnesses and records for waste management, and regulates the way of work and records of the reuse centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52202	There is one replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52203	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. You come from Supetar from Brac, we know what islands mean for tourism, but we know what waste means for tourism. We can also see in the new law a number of changes related to waste management, and here you yourself have mentioned in the last part of the debate and co-finance the transport of waste from the island, the supply of containers, other utility equipment. I'm curious here, specifically, the tourist season is approaching as far as the situation on the island of Brac is concerned and about all these measures under this law if you can tell us a few sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52204	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52205	Thank you very much, Reverend Ante Bacic, for your question. I would say that we on the island of Brac did not move forward as far as waste management is concerned, especially because you have eight local self-government units on the island of Brac and the City of Supetar accepts 2019. Or Mayor Markovic signed part of an annex contract that accepted garbage from the entire island of Brac. What is really a mile away from the City of Supetar today is a big, big problem for us today, because we don't care about the health of citizens, about agriculture, about the ecological approach, and we don't manage well and we don't manage well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52206	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52207	Dear Chairman, Mr Secretary of State, I warmly welcome you all. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, in essence, since yesterday's session of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, and even through today's debate, we are constantly listening to the opposition about how this bill is removed, especially coming from the ranks of the SDP, and then one would say that in their mandate there were some wonders likely in the disposal of waste. And then the minister denied all of this and said from 2012-2015, the growth of separately collected waste was 1%, the delay was reduced by only 3%, and the same separately collected waste was only 24%. In 2019, all the numbers have increased, and so is the collection of 37% separately, the growth of separate waste collection by 11%, and the growth of delay reduction by 18%, so I don't know what we're talking about. I am not saying this to make them feel bad now, but I simply believe that this proposal for a law on waste management, which is there in front of us, is still leading us a step closer to EU standards, the European way of collecting and disposal of waste, and thus protecting the environment and nature. This law covers almost everything that is required of us so that our country can adapt in time to the green economy. The law tried to eliminate any failures and illogicalities that were in the existing law. Some things are both obsolete and need to be updated and adapted to current times. This is how our regulations are harmonised with the legal acquis of the EU, the law prescribes the jurisdiction of county administrative authorities, public waste collection services are prescribed, reuse centres are prescribed, the same is defined by bonds of the development of waste management plan, which are the Republic of Croatia and the County, the economic instruments of waste management are prescribed, inspection and administrative supervision are prescribed and much more. The law also sets new goals until 2035. to increase waste separation and recycling and to reduce waste disposal. It also prohibits the placing on the market of certain single plastic products such as plastic bags of up to 50 micrometers, sticks, straws, cutlery etc. In this debate there were also great criticisms at waste management centres, in the very way of forming these centres and giving ideas so that it would be good to bring it down to local self-government units to take care of it anyway, and I can tell you from my own experience and from the experience of the City of Makarska in essence of all municipalities from Podbiokovlje, I am talking about five municipalities and one city which are each for themselves very, very small and even from that surface take 50% because of the waste on maritime well-being and on the PP Biokovo and we physically have no possibility for any waste disposal of waste, the macycling yard is difficult to position. In 2005, Donja Gora dump was closed and since then, the Municipality of Makarska Riviera including the City of Makarska have mainly driven their waste to Karepovac. Six years ago, the city of Makarska was disabled and we drove our waste, even for a time to Donji Miholjac, to an unloved place throughout our beautiful country. Mr. Lenart was here in 2017 upon the arrival of the honorary office of the mayor of Makarska, and I was welcomed that we had just driven to Kutin since. We were trying to cut it down, the fund was helping us subsidize and I was happy and I managed when I took a waste dump within a 300km, simply because we don't have physical space to do it. And therefore the Lečevica Waste Management Centre for which we are waiting for is a rescue for us, a rescue for all the municipalities of the Makarska Riviera, and also for Makarska Zagorje. And so let's not just easily reject waste management centres and, for example, some bad practices might put them all in the same basket and say they're not good. Is this law covering absolutely everything from the waste collection and disposal domain? Of course not, but he has tried to predict all relevant provisions that are current and will be current for some time. Is the law perfect? No, but it's better than the existing one, and it gives us the opportunity to change it when the need is created. Because of all the good that the Law provides, and regardless of the potential failures put on its burden, I believe that we must support this bill, both in first reading and second, because failing to adopt the law would have far more harm than benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52208	We have a replica of the distinguished representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52209	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, colleague Brkan. In the second part of your discussion, you mentioned from the personal experience and experience of the mayor of one tourist champion, Makarska, but as a tourist worker and related to the context of waste management. Let's just take one segment, we heard the minister, and you mentioned plastic packaging, especially this ban on one-time plastic products. The Minister himself, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned that just from 2018, 2019 there was an increase in the use of such plastic packaging. In this Law, we have a good example and a good ban on exactly such products. Here, let's take from the context of Makarska as one tourist champion, here, which will only mean such a small provision for such a city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52210	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52211	I'd like to thank Mr. Bacic on the line. In fact, as difficult as it is for manufacturers who are focused on their products on these single bags and single plastic products, I am as much as a citizen of Makarska, I can now look forward to that ban. Namely, in the summer season, our winter quantity is 300 tonnes per month, in the summer season 1200 tonnes per month. Now, a lot of waste ends up on public traffic surfaces in terms of just that pollution from single plastic products. Our company, Makarska Communal, cleans up and collects the waste. But the problem happens when that waste ends up in the sea. And we can no longer influence it, and a huge amount of plastic one-time waste unfortunately ends up in the sea and then pollutes our environment, and yet our country is profiting from the newly developed tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52212	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52213	Thank you very much. Comrade Brkan, you gave your experience to local self-government and compared it to stories of waste management centers. We were now witnessing in this election campaign almost all local self-government waste was one of the topics, and I think the strongest topic was right in the capital of Zagreb where everyone competed over who wanted to close Jakushevac before. And they said in 2025, some before, some later, etc., and everyone was just saying that fact. But they didn't say what after that. Which, after that, is more expensive for you citizens, and they forgot to say that, and now comes the time of trial and the realization of all these promises. Now we're gonna watch what it looks like. Whether we're going to need a center that's going to take care of means all the waste that's going to be produced in this capital city and how much it's going to cost, given that they haven't been paying for what they've emptyed out there on the Yakushevac, it didn't cost anything. Let's pick it up, empty it out, and nothing. So that's the story. Those counties that were ahead, north of Croatia, Istria, coast, we have a problem, but there is a system that works. No matter what the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52214	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52215	I thank you, dear representative Boric, here, as you said, I will set an example for you again. Since 2015, the city of Makarska has been paying 2 million kuna annually for the disposal of waste, and for the transport of waste 3.8 million kuna. That's huge costs. We managed to cut that cost, cut it in half, though, for transport, but that's all the money our citizens pay. We didn't have to, thank God, we didn't raise the price because we were still making it to the tourist season, to the reckoning, to the summer months, when we could compensate, but in the last two years, as the crown, since there is no such developed tourism, we came to the point that we would have to collect and the cost of waste disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52216	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52217	Your Honor, you have spoken something that is truly rare to hear, it seems to me that no one has actually said it, and that is the law bad, it is not very good, it is better than we have so far and therefore should be supported, not only in the first reading, but even in the second. So instead of using the debate to improve the law so that what we see doesn't fit the needs right now, you say, whatever it is, it's in the second reading, and I'm particularly surprised by the area you're coming from. Here, I'm flying there, really one of the most beautiful parts of our Adriatic coast, if there's a problem with waste management, then it's there. And lastly, I'll look back on what Mr. Boric said, so if you had a morale, you'd have a moral obligation to remain silent because of Jakusevec and the city of Zagreb, since you were in coalition with HDZ, so to remain silent at local and state level because you are the ones who have not made a waste management plan or have done anything in due time to waste in the city of Zagreb in a timely manner [[Intruder: Replicate Yuri Brkanu, please.]] In a good way, lords. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52218	I give you a warning because you gave the line to the esteemed Mr. Boric, not Yuri Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52219	Here, I thank the distinguished representative Oreskovic on the replica, but I'm sorry she didn't listen to my presentation. I didn't say the law was bad, I said the law is better and it's current, but in the future it gives us the possibility of change, if there's anything insufficient about it. Also, I'm glad you're flying to Makarska, on the Makarska Riviera, whether, in Podgorica, I don't even know the di, so I'm glad you know our neighborhood well, I believe you'll come to Makarska too, that it will be neat and clean and that it will be well received by all our tourists who come to the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52220	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ankica Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52221	... HS, a respected secretary of state with an associate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] My colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new Waste Management Act involving all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That the Law is important and essential, we can conclude from numerous comments and suggestions in which the consultation involved more than 1700 participants. Yesterday on the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, a number of different opinions and proposals were presented in the assembly today. I want to speak here and get involved in the debate of this law on those provisions and regulations that apply and which bind the units of local self-government. The existing State Waste Management Act, which was adopted in 2013, has been amended several times and complemented by the fact that there is a lot of inadequacy, permeability or indifference that it has shown us and practice. One of the illogicalities is the obligation to build a recycling yard for units of local self-government that have more than 1000 inhabitants. It is we will provide funds from EU funds and withdraw finances, but how to continue to function and maintain a recycling yard that will never be filled from the area of one municipality and will never be in office, and the costs for employees who will work in the recycling yard and for the maintenance of the courtyard itself are burdened by municipal budgets, and that has been a problem for many in the municipalities. This new law stipulates that mobile recycling units or courtyards can meet separate collection of municipal waste. The new law also enables local self-government units to reduce the price of public service to collect municipal waste for smaller households that we have a lot of in the country, as we are allowed to set our prices on our own. In addition, local self-government units will not be obliged by this new law to develop a waste management plan but will be transferred to counties or units of regional (area) self-government. They can conclude that a large part of the responsibility is transferred to counties that have greater and better human resources than municipalities, and the law requires greater responsibility and obligations for the provider of municipal waste collection services or concessionaries, as was expected and necessary. I believe that this proposal for a new law is much better than the current law, that even until the second reading will be done and brought into line in some provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52222	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52223	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of the law are passed and changed, as a rule every new one brings something new and more life-saving and more quality. That is the case with this Proposal for a Waste Management Act, it should also contribute to significant positive shifts in waste production and treatment. Realising that waste management needs to reduce the amount of waste generated and achieve as little waste as possible for disposal. But what I'm interested in, of course, and what's known to be even the most perfect rules are dead letter on paper if they're not implemented, I'm interested in you telling us some of your experiences as head of the local self-government unit, of course, about the collection, positive experience of waste collection and management.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52225	Here, so there have been several open tenders from the fund and the competent ministry that are financed through the European Fund, so Vrpolje municipality has applied for a tender for the purchase of mobile recycling unit or mobile yard where we have concluded the contract and already implemented the purchase and secured the meaning of the mobile recycling unit that here these days will be both in the function and the funds that we received from the European Fund is 85% that means a lot to us for our budgets in the area of the municipality and we can say that it will work. And here we have already informed our citizens what our duty is, so let's inform them that it will be in the position of a mobile recycling unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52226	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52227	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues have one question right here on the trail and this answer that you have now given from the experience of a long-standing head of a municipality we see in the law itself means the unit of local self-government, I think that if I remember correctly, they are obliged in their field to provide a public service to collect mixed municipal waste and to separate collected waste paper, metal and other, preventing waste disposal and a number of other activities that local self-government units themselves must carry out in their own areas, the state of what we see, and what we saw through the debate about laws and the reduction of hydrocarbons, now and for waste management we set high goals, and by the percentage we are still relatively low. Do you think, and for a long time you've been in the community association whether we're as a unit of local self-government ready to do this, whether we're going to meet all these goals from your experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52228	Dear fellow I personally believe that we will try to get close to that percentage, but now whether it will be fulfilled just as it is prescribed and drawn, here it means to me in the municipalities we are trying not only to commit this law, it is both previous and all previous laws that we are bound to ensure the collection of municipal waste in the area of our units of local self-government. So all together when we join together, I hope there will be positive solutions as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52229	Next individual debate, respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52230	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so before us is the waste management law that she heard we received 1721 remarks which actually shows that the public is very interested in this topic and wants to participate I would say in the waste management process. Thank you right at the beginning and for accepting that initiative so that we can include it in the assembly and show by example that we also separate the waste here and add another one, at least another storage container for the collection of plastic waste. With this law as well as with most laws in Croatia, it is sometimes well written, even some list of beautiful desires as much as we need to achieve a percentage of separation, in which period etc. In the end, however, it all falls to the realization. Here, waste management centers have been in laws for how many years. We've got two realized so far, and we're not happy with them. Then all the forces here are directed into the distribution of the container for separate collection of waste. However, it is time, 21st year in the 21st century, that we should also raise the ladder. The cities in which we are led as best examples are Krk, Prelog which here has 65% separation. However, we are actually falling in the big cities of Zagreb and Split. Split separates it I think barely 4%. So the systems in the big cities are the most complex, and so far they've achieved a little bit. I will now make some of these remarks brought to me by experts from municipal companies dealing with waste management and those who are among the better, which are proactive, the most active in state-owned applications to funds and efforts to apply best practices. Here they say, the law, so I've already asked the minister, means only two categories of household users and incompetence. For example, they belong to this category of incompetence. and small tenants so that what I said is true for Mol's Split, it's also true for Grandma Maru who has one room with two beds and she's also a failure. The Minister replied, therefore, that Article 73 of the criteria for reducing the price of public service exists. However, this article applies only to households. So not on legal persons, so it doesn't solve this great disrepancy and these huge differences within that category. Another thing they say is that an abnormal procedure is to make public service pricers. According to the bill of law, the procedure is really complicated, one part must even go to public debate, so the city council is involved, so the mayor etc. So, you need to get the mayor's consent, the mayor. If she doesn't get the price list, she doesn't pass. Then who collects the waste at what cost? So, the whole procedure is very complicated. Third thing. The fact that households are obliged to teach their mixed municipal waste and separately collected waste, and separately collected waste can or must conclude contracts with whoever it wants. Therefore, the service provider must have a ready-to-be infrastructure if the user in the category of disability changes that month, so that the paper can be collated for example. the service provider. So, one month can go to a classic whether it's a local service provider, but it can make a deal with someone else, and then, and so, the collected waste doesn't get into the numbers about the degree of separation and then the unit of local self-government and pays and unwarrantedly the larger incentive fee. So there are some illogicalities. Here's a colleague who used to talk about local self-government units with fewer than 3,000 residents who should have a mobile recycling yard. What about those units of tourist centers, here is Podgora, the town around the Makarska coast they are over the winter thousands and a half inhabitants, and in the summer they grow at least 3 times? Will the mobile recycling yard satisfy those facilities in summer? I'm sure he won't. But then the question arises and whether they need a fixed one of these recycling courtyards so how to maintain it. What is here for the end of these 10 seconds is what should be done when we may be introducing some repressive systems of punishment to facilitate the installation of video surveillance, intensive education, but not just lenses in a user's mailbox, but let's use in the 21st century and all these modern technologies, social networks, mobile applications for citizen education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52231	You have one replica. Dear representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52232	Dear colleagues, you mentioned the realization in some parts of Croatia. The area from which I come Međimurje records the best results in waste separation, which confirms that as many as 11 međimurje municipalities and cities are at the very top of waste separation. For comparison, Croatia had to achieve a total recycling of 50% of the total amount of municipal waste collected by 2020. But Međimurje achieved this goal and reached 70%, which is the goal Croatia has until 2030. I ask nicely your opinion on how to raise a ladder at the level of all Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52233	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52234	...how to lift a ladder, here's not enough to write just in law. We have to, we want to, we need to actually do it rather than do it and include it, and I would say there are those three pillars and citizens, and communal societies and here are the legislators and the ministry with their laws because without the cooperation of all these three components we're not actually going to do it. So, citizens are educated as I said not only with the lenses that we're going to put into the mailbox and what they would say cross over and pray to God that they've read that flyer and they're going to listen to us, but they're using today's social networks, advertising through mobile apps. You have WhatsApps, Vibers, etc. School education from small legs, kindergartens, schools, etc. Communal rediving that must be active and proactive. Not to sit and go out in the field when someone invites them, but to walk actively in the field and to see something that is not worth reporting and therefore combined with these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52235	Next individual debate, respected representative Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52236	My colleagues and colleagues, a few days ago the project and construction of the Waste Management Centre Lucino Razdolje was cancelled. Something about the project was said by her colleague Bencic. But it's not the only one, the only waste management center. In fact, on February 2nd of this year, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has annulled the decision to design, perform works of the Babin Gora Waste Management Centre. Why is this happening to us? What happened? When activists who spent years of order related to all problems with Babina Gora also sent a written letter about what happens after so many preparations and spent at the end of public money, they received the answer that these 100,000 kunas will, for example. In addition, it is now necessary to pay for one of the bidders who complained about the procurement process, they said it is normal in Croatia. Therefore, in Croatia it seems really normal for something to be wrong with such projects if it finds its own State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, it writes as many as 32 pages from a series of technical and other failures that led to this public procurement. What other costs are there that will be lost somewhere in all of this? So that's the cost of a performance study that even foreigners of 3 million kuna have worked for us, so they are, for example, The feasibility study was done already when the project was finally in place instead of at the beginning, so when it was sought where the waste management centre would be located it was indeed a political decision, because if it hadn't been for a political decision then it would have certainly been carried out by different geological and hydrological research that had not been carried out, which was literally carried out with one buffer on three spears, where everything that was later found that at Babine Gore underneath there are hundreds of sources some of which are also used for water use, for example. only in Karlovac and the surrounding places, so on that Babina Gora, to further make a management centre that hectares and hectares of the forest were destroyed, of course, for access roads. So what they tell us when we're talking, so if we get from a few major waste management centers, and we see that the local level, i.e. local that she will be in charge of worrying about what happens when political, political decisions are made somewhere else. Like that. And if we also see how we choose where we're going to do it carefully, someone's been talking about it today, for example. Babin Gora's own management centre was designed to accept 100,000 tonnes a year. Well, now that coverage self-initiative acceptance has dropped to 30,000 tonnes a year, but it's left to Babina Gora alone, so I'm the center of the same gauges, the gauges from 32 hectares of size, space to 15 million m3, so it's done in a way that we finally know who's following and the number of residents that are going to meet, which needs will be met, and here we finally heard from colleagues how the waste management costs are less than the transportation and transportation of our waste. So, as it is possible that we will now have Babina Gora who will work on 30% of the capacity they will have and why, I am going back to the beginning and why projects are being done so that it is late from itself, from the very feasibility study, and not to say from the very needs where, and for who and for who and now additionally for this whole project we need to be aware that we will also pay for EU pens because we have not, and to return funds because we have not even used it. Who's responsible for this, I'm asking here who's responsible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52237	Next individual debate, respected representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52238	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here at the outset if anything can be said about this law is that it is at least a year late and therefore coming now at this moment at two readings instead of adopting it by emergency procedure, which is necessary at this time because if you followed Croatia, the announced penalties from the European Commission for not implementing waste directives. And exactly waste management shows that Croatia is in fact completely unprepared for the new EU paradigm, thus also for the new financial envelope, and can be kept in one word, this is a new green plan by 2050 with which all, absolutely all principles, documents, directives in the EU must be harmonised. It is a key document for the development of Europe, namely Croatia, a key document for a new financial perspective that envisions Europe's social and economic transformation by 2050. So all plans in Croatia but also in the EU will have to be harmonised, and Croatia will have to work much faster and much more intensively to change the current linear economy into the so-called so-called circular or circular, by adopting and disciplined implementation of the green transformation strategy of Croatia. Unfortunately, so far, we're doing nothing about it as a country. And exactly what I want to say and put a special emphasis on waste management is condicio sine qua non i.e. the precondition for moving to a circular economy according to the 3R principle, thus reducing waste, reuse therefore reuse raw materials and recycling or recycling. What is the situation in Croatia? Therefore, it is clear to all of us that Croatia is late in implementation of waste directives, which is why I said that they have already announced a penalty or monetary penalty to our country and we are also late in the implementation of the Westpackage Directive on the disposal of packaging waste and the Directive on specific categories of waste, and we are particularly late. And what is most tragic and particularly worrying about the Landfield Directive that predicts the recovery of existing waste dumps. And now that I'm saying this is a de facto fact, unfortunately, in Croatia none of the dumps have been renovated according to European standards because all of the dumps are still being disposed of by uninsured waste that contains part of the waste, which creates decay, gas, unfortunately and smell. And the best example for this is the largest Croatian waste dump, it is Jakuševec, which has been smelling for 20 years for the inhabitants of Zagreb. And Zagreb only has an eye-separation of waste because eventually all waste ends up on exactly the same pile, along with this biowaste that causes an exceptional, exceptional smell. It is therefore necessary to approach this problem thoroughly throughout our country and fully reorganise and regulate the final waste management system. Of course, what I expect will be announced as soon as possible and the waste management system in the City of Zagreb and close Jakuševec. The last five years. These governments testify that on this issue, on waste management almost nothing has been done and that all the while playing ping pong or switching responsibilities with JLS, it should be you, but on the other hand we will oversee you and when it doesn't work then the problem has the whole country. And the whole country has a problem by ultimately transferring the cost of foam to the citizens themselves by increasing the price of waste disposal. I spoke long ago in this HS and six to seven years ago. that it is necessary for the state to take full responsibility and control over this process that Croatian citizens from its own pocket simply would not have to pay penalties that we will have to pay precisely by neglecting the government or JLS that are even less important in this case. And the numbers are like that, for example. Italy paid a million EUR daily fine for one unsanitary waste disposal, imagine a million EUR daily fine. Therefore, due to the irresponsibility of a state which has no political will to regulate this system, citizens could soon have a double price of waste disposal and in this HS we must talk about and what is most important cannot be allowed as representatives of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52239	The next individual debate was respected by MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52240	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal of the Waste Management Act, which has a series of illogicalities in it, and I would say absurdity. I will refer only to a few provisions that are extremely important, especially for the island of Krk from which I come, which you certainly know is the champion of the collection or disposal of waste in the Republic of Croatia, I would dare say more widely. First of all, I'll look back at the so-called. an incentive fee that is not at all an incentive fee but is a punishment, especially if we are talking about successful environments, about those who care about the environment and who really separate waste. The reference year in this law is the previous year, not in 2015 as previously set out in the Regulation. This means that nothing has changed and that they continue to punish successful and zealous. So, JLS on the island of Krk, which separate 60% of the waste if this year they separate 59%, and in previous years they've separated 60%, they'll pay no incentive fee, but let's be realistic and honest, the penalty. In addition, it is defined that if the rate of separate collection of waste increases faster than the growth of the total amount of municipal waste, the amount of the incentive fee is reduced. This would mean that JLS on the island of Krk is suggested to reduce the number of tourist nights. I don't know what the tourism ministry says about that. I am talking about tourist nights because the amount of waste is the result of tourist nights because on the island of Krk, we know that the quantities of waste in about 70% of the amount are caused by exactly the tourist burden, i.e. by an increase in the number of so on. the occasional residents during the season. Since the rate of waste or foam, excuse me, since the foames depend on tourist nights I say, I am interested in what the Ministry of Tourism says because the island of Krk is suggested to reduce the number of tourist nights as the rate of separate collection of waste which is unreachable for 95% of the JLS in Croatia and will not be available for years, it would not grow even 1% slower than the growth of the amount of waste or growth of tourist nights. I suppose the more favourable position under this law should nevertheless have JLSs or environments that are above the average waste separation rate. The following disputed provision is an article. The 70th century of the 5th century. This paragraph defines an exception which allows households to not export other types of waste, other than mixed which is obliged to hand over to the public service provider, to hire a private service provider. Given that in tourist resorts not households are largely made up of entities that generate large quantities of waste, which are hotels, pensions, renters, autocamps, restaurants, etc., a private service provider can lower prices to a measure that is competitive to the public service provider. And as a result, we have the destruction of public service providers that are infrastructures that belong to both varieties and composts that are encouraged, built precisely by public money. Therefore, it is suitable for private service providers, preferably through the Fund co-finance and supply of machinery and equipment. Anything driven through private providers doesn't go into the amount of separate waste collection and JLS, can you believe that? The following disputed provision is categories of users of public services designated as households and not households. In non-households are also classified private owners of accommodation facilities no matter how many accommodation units they rent. This equates the obligation to pay the basic minimum public service or fixed fee for a private tenant who rents one room and hotels with 2,000 beds, which is completely illogical and unfair. Furthermore, the decision of the representative body sets out the criteria for giving discounts to users is very questionable because there is a possibility that these criteria may be discriminatory and the possibility of malfeasance or conjecture is opened. In addition, this provision is applicable only to households, therefore, not to a private tenant because they are classified as unaccounted for. A constitutional action will be brought against this law as well as against the amendment of the regulation. Something about it was said by her colleague Udovic, and the other reasons are clear because the provisions of the regulation which were controversial and which the Constitutional Court simply abolished were transposed into the law. I'm going to tell you this provision concerns precisely the decree of setting private renters into unaccounted for even though they can truly be classified as households and incompetence. But they are definitely not a hotel, and that is the provision of the regulation referred to in Article 20 paragraph 10 that the Constitutional Court has abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52241	Time Replicated representative Romana Nikolic. [[Upadica Ahmetovic: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52242	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues Ahmetovic in Croatia have several composts and I will give an example of one in Sisak-Moslavina County compostana Strozac. After many problems related to the technological process of waste recovery have been made since the beginning of the work, thanks to the fact that the compost today is an example of good practice in technological terms. In today’s market conditions, however, composts are empty because finding new raw materials and jobs has become a real challenge. As the law provides, cities and municipalities in the area should bring their biowaste to it. Currently, only the City of Popovaca is doing so, while others pay large sums of money to external management companies and the biowaste even ends outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. However, a large amount of biodegradable waste is incorrectly disposed of in uncontrollable conditions and is disrupted by the ecosystem. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52243	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52244	Thank you, dear colleague Nikolic. I also said something in my presentation regarding the relationship between private and public service providers. A concrete example is the public service provider on the island of Krk, a municipal company that has invested public money, not only the money of the population of the island of Krk but also the public money of Croatian citizens if we are talking about the assistance that the Ponikve municipal company Ponikave has received from the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency to build its infrastructure. Among other things, the sortery and the compost. Today, this infrastructure is bazaared to the capacity that the island of Krk needs. Tomorrow, when private service providers provide or date prices and provide a specific waste collection service, that capacity will not actually be used. The public service provider will be destroyed and the question is, where will all this junk go? There's no control.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52245	The next individual debate was a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52246	Presidents, fellow MPs and MPs. When we were on behalf of the clubs, we could hear from a few of them a sentence from which we can conclude around this Law is bad, and I'm going to say that it's not our biggest problem. This Law may be bad, but it is only in the first reading, and if all those powerful remarks were respected, it would be a chance for the law to be corrected. So it's not our biggest problem that this law is. Our biggest problem is that our minister is bad. And here are a few examples from which I claim why it is. The first example is that, for example, in Article 10 of this Act, the implementing body at national level is the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Therefore, it is this Fund that is an important body for the implementation of this Act. In this Fund, at least according to media writing, we have recently had a major affair, or for five or more years now, we have a situation and there is a found lack of 700 million kuna suspected of being the result of not only unconscious and incompetent business, but of various malfeasances and corrupt actions that are not being investigated. The media is suspected or speculated that the resolution minister is the so-called Secretary of State. The T.C. is very much connected to these malfeasances. But even if he didn't do anything. It is in his jurisdiction to examine what is involved and to remove the persons responsible. But it is not the only corrupt affair with which this minister connects from wind power plants, from roaming in the famous illegal club Janaf and beyond. In fact, what it points to is that we, both MPs and politicians, have no legitimate confidence in such a resolute citizen minister. And why is that a problem in the context of this Law? For example, because Article 11 states that in the event of a need to prevent or eliminate damage caused by force majeure or in the event of other danger, the minister may temporarily order or prohibit certain waste management and establish the mandatory application of intervention measures. No protection mechanism in this Act is intended for those discretionary orders of the minister I say we can rightly consider that there are mild problems with corruption to be placed under someone's control or control. And now to gently caricate, it's like putting a fox to guard the chicken, but then we pump that fox up with steroids so that in the event of the need for easier divers. The third reason why I say that we have a problem with the bad minister and not only with the bad law is that even under the past law, and also by this government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection is responsible for prescribing waste management measures and so on for the adoption of a waste management plan at the state level. So where are we stuck with these plans? We see what it looks like with key waste management centres and how brutally we have failed in two of the largest cities in Zagreb and Split. And here's as glad as I am, I'm so disgusted by the fact that we're only talking today about how to imagine the Yakusevec smell. Well, it doesn't smell like yesterday. It's been smelling for years, it's been smelling for decades. All causes and contaminants have not been established. For years, the fact that in this area very often we have the presence of toxic particles in the air above the permitted level is also problematic, but the HDZs present here, and so the former local authorities did absolutely nothing to resuscitate such a situation. An additional problem is that Zagreb would finally start to my two replicas today, the minister has actually confirmed to me that it is aware that the eligible facilities for Zagreb for construction waste are close to its 100% fill-up and here 15 months after the earthquake the state has done absolutely nothing to ensure an adequate location for construction waste to be received and taken care of at all, and that the circulatory economy, the recycling, the treatment of waste as new economic values and the creation of potential new jobs, and I am not talking about. So this is one irresponsible, incompetent and incompetent government and these problems will not solve even all proposed possible amendments. It can only be settled in the first next election. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52247	We have a replica, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52248	Well, here's what I'd like to give you more opportunities to expand this subject a little bit because it seems to me that it's kind of symptomatic, so always now in the laws that are coming here we get the possibility of calling something really systemic corruption because if it's allowed by law that I'm a minister overseeing something that's already questionable or the whole procedure is questionable, we already have some suspicion that the minister and tends to some type of corruption, is it not about the work of systemic corruption? I would remind myself that we had the Law on the University, the Defence, the security that allowed the university not to pass the evaluation that must pass through all other institutions, we had a number of situations... that Minister Bear appointed a commission etc., it seems to me that we are already going towards something that must be called legal and systemic corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52249	Thanks for asking. When we talk about Minister Tomislav Ćorić, I think it's not about systemic corruption, but about his personal party, and systemic corruption really stems from a whole series of poorly-coordinated laws full of black holes. One of those is the one we've got now. In the Anti-Corruption Strategy, I have envisaged and suggested that we strengthen the Committee for Conflict of Interest or some preventive body by giving it directly to the authority to analyse laws and analyse the corrupt risks arising from certain laws. Such a body we do not have in the Republic of Croatia today, it should be a well-trained body that then gives us parliamentary representatives guidance and guidance on what needs to be changed in the laws. Here we simply need to come up with a way of controlling the way the minister takes his orders or at least limit their duration. According to the current proposal, their duration is unlimited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52250	Time. Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52251	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here's the Waste Management Act first reading we recently had on the table a few years ago, and we have some changes normally we can say whether it's good or bad, but the law is as good as it's actually applied on the ground. When we talk about the law, it should be noted that we need to go back a little bit to history and see where we were a few years ago, and where we are now about waste management, as far as waste collection is concerned. So one statistical data from 2012-2015 we had a growth in separate collected waste 1%, and a reduction in deposits 3%, from 2016-2019, we have a significant increase in collected waste, it increases from 1% to 11%, and a decrease in delays from 3% to 18%, which is a significant reduction, i.e. A significant increase in collected waste and a reduction in disposal, means that we are working on it and that this law certainly makes sense. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, What I would definitely mention, which is a regulation. The guidance or direction given by the Constitutional Court may be good, but from the position of the local leader, I don't think it's very good to separate that. equalize the household and those who are not. And who aren't? Well, it's entrepreneurship, it may not sound good to segregate someone in any way, but household waste is not the same as entrepreneurship waste, it definitely has nothing to do with it, and it's important that the ministry has noticed it in the law so far, and that it will fix it through new legal provisions because the law in entrepreneurship, especially in some industry, is not the same waste in the industry as it is in the household. When we talk about the activities and the Environmental Protection Fund and when we talk about the competences of collecting, rehab, waste management is definitely defined by law to go to local self-government units and some frameworks are to give units of local self-government to do something about it, I don't know why Zagreb didn't do it, and those who ran Zagreb were in any kind of functioning, but opposition, whether the government in Zagreb, but I can speak from the position of the head of a small town that we used everything that the Ministry and the Environmental Protection allowed us to do, so that we made education, an informative education of our household. So we applied to this contest, that we successfully implemented that education, and that we pulled over about, a little bit less than 500 thousand kunas just for that education, that we built a recycling yard, that we put into operation, that we went to the control of the Fund, and that the recycling yard works for the benefit of our residents, means local self-government. That our utility reported a tender for a new utility vehicle for separate waste collection, that it received 68% co-financing and that we were successful and here, it's right in the process, in the process of getting a vehicle. If we had obtained separate waste collection tanks and we were successful here, so we responded to the Fund's tender, we were successful and we realized and we are currently dividing and moving with the distribution of the means of these tanks. If we had rescheduled the waste dump, had dealt with it for five years, had closed the dump, had rescheduled the dump, had successfully been together. With the Fund and the Ministry. [[Intruder: Time.]] So, here, I don't know what some others did, but I know that many units of local self-government were successful and that the Fund and the Ministry have given it a lot of thought in this direction and... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52252	We've got two replicas. First of all, she's a respected representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Jenkač, you spoke of the Waste Management and Benefit Act that he will bring, as well as your experiences as head of local self-government when it comes to waste management. According to some data available so far, more than 4 billion kuna has been invested in waste management in the Republic of Croatia. It's huge money. If we look at data per capita by producing 444 kilograms of waste annually, which shows that there is room for progress, so I'm interested in the aspect of a person who is actually constantly communicating with citizens, for example local self-government units can still take on, jointly, of course with the Ministry and with the Environmental Protection Fund to actually reduce this waste?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52254	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52255	Here, thank you for the question, Reverend Petyr. As I was saying, we've conducted one large majority of those competitions that the Fund and the Ministry have given us. I think one very important direction to go in is definitely the education of citizens. In our own experience, and we have carried out an informative education and complete all activities, I think we should give further importance there because citizens are thinking that they are separating waste and that it means that waste separation is all solved. In fact, that's where the whole story gets complicated. Now, I don't have time to elaborate anymore, I'd love to, but I think education is important that Keep going. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52256	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52257	Thank you very much. Comrade Yankee, you spoke in your debate about who did or did not, and you gave examples of what you were doing in New Marof, which some are not in some major cities. And we heard a debate from a colleague who even minuses created by the Fund during the SDP government attributed to this government and this minister and there she sees corruption and everything else she would do. So we came in time to show again who does what and who knows what, so that the city of Zagreb, as the largest city that is practically at the beginning, will show waste management what it knows in the next 4 years and those who will talk about it both in the Parliament and in the Assembly, etc. We know what we did and we have experience. We know the state was available. Whoever did what depended on us local leaders. How ready you are, how willing you are to do and what you will do. Some have made and the system works. Those who aren't will probably try to look for mistakes in some past and think it's enough for them to come back to the public and say we're good, we're better than them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52258	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52259	That's right. Local self-governments had certain mechanisms at their disposal, which I was talking about. So from the disposal of the dump, the construction of recycling yards, composts, so right now, here's only one piece of information that is currently being built and the equipment of the 31 construction waste recycling facility. Normally that these are specific activities, a specific recycling yard and that they can't be at every step and that perhaps the legislator should have thought that for a particular area is defined to be doing exactly what recycling courtyards, especially these specific recycling courtyards, so that there are no duplications, but still, what you said, from your own experience, I can say that we worked well with the Fund, that there are professional people there and that only what you did can at the end of the day To charge and to make all [[Intruder: Time.]] It's okay. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52260	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52261	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Yankee. In your presentation, among other things, you also talked about the fixed part of the price, and there you commended that we have a unique price we will have for all those in the household category, and yet another for those who are not and praise it that entrepreneurs really deserve special criteria because they are special types of waste. However, there will be both school and church and kindergarten and hotel and some production plant. What is very good is that I would add there you will certainly know and do best that the council of our representative bodies will bring certain criteria for the reduction and I believe that in your field you will also know to propose such criteria, such as those which will come into contact and the entrepreneur as well as any religious or school institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52262	Well, clearly, the difference between a religious and a school institution I don't know as mentioned here by a small tenant and a large hotel is clear, and here I believe that the ministry's proposal will give good guidance then and local self-governments in which direction when they prescribe and define the prices in which they will define them and definitely those who buy them, and these are utility companies who know who is the polluter and who is with what kind of waste and what the amount of waste means comes and who gives up what waste. It is important to stress that we have a fixed part of the price and variable prices. The fixed part of the price means we pay at the monthly level while the variable part of the price goes by the amount of lift so it is also good that the price is defined through the number of lifts. Although this is where we return to the education of citizens, some citizens abuse it so as to reduce the rises, they delay waste. in nature. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52263	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52264	Thank you. It is true what you pointed out that the City of Zagreb is therefore one of the worst metropolises in Europe by the system of disposal, waste management, and I must say that what we found in the city absolutely proves it. There's no infrastructure and there's no investment. However, I don't understand you are HDZ, so you're HDZ representative, so I think, so the Holding Supervisory Board had two members, the management board, you had your man in the HDZ administration, in the city offices, you managed the City Property Office, I can name you here now 30, 40 names, but I don't have time for your officials and your colleagues who in the prominent management posts in the City of Zagreb held the Bandic stands of course, and you're now wondering why the City of Zagreb didn't work, so give us an answer that it didn't work because you were with them in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52265	Well, here, so you know who's responsible for running local self-government, not someone sitting on the board of directors, not someone sitting in any company, it's primarily the mayor. So he dictates the pace of the city and how the city will be run and what jobs will be done. So I don't think there's any dispute here, no one's responsible for down the mayor, and here you have your mayor now who will be just as responsible as he was before and will not be asked anyone else for his other success or failure. I would only draw attention to the fact that the government has given the city of Zagreb intervention funds, the EU's grants, meant to reduce the disposal of municipal waste generated in the city of more than 75 million kuna. So it is not true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not care about the City of Zagreb and did not lead, and those who run the city normally must then and that policy and it is very clear, not those who sit on the supervisory boards because they do not lead the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52266	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have raised the issue of cooperation between local and national levels, and you have raised the question that every local level, or every mayor, will take responsibility for his work, not to switch to national level, but to take responsibility for what has to be done and, of course, the assumption is that the foreign ministry will always be open to dialogue. You have set an example of your city, your experience, I can and give an example of the city of Samobor where we have, where we have had a situation where the national level and local were different political this orientation, but the ministry has always been open, here and the secretary of state has always received when a common solution of local authorities was to be found. However, it is always the mayor's responsibility to implement it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52268	That's right, you're right, so the Ministry and the Fund are giving us some frameworks, and they're allowing us to prepare ourselves according to the guidelines, so we're getting the information that we're preparing for, and we were able to prepare for it. So from the information education, from the recycling yards, from the sorting plant and the separate collection of waste, from the separate collection of biowaste, from the construction means construction facilities for recycling of construction waste, from the purchase of a vehicle for separate collection of waste, from the purchase of waste storage tanks, from the recovery of waste disposal here, from the means of various specific large dumps targeted by the fund with the ministry, prepared, etc., so that the ministry always provides a framework, and local self-government is the one that goes according to this framework and uses and the potentials and ultimately solves the problem on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52269	Next individual debate, the respected representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52270	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues when we talk about this regulation, this law is about compliance with the European Directive. Unfortunately, here it is in practice that what are European guidelines or directives, whatever we want to call them, become, not applicable in practice in Croatia. So the guideline is a guideline, it is embedded in domestic legislation and must elaborate what is defined by the guidelines because each country has its own legislative architecture, which then adapts that direction. If we limit ourselves to translate the guideline into Croatian and transfer that novel to law in Croatian, then write failed. And that's my concern because the laws have changed, and unfortunately those goals that we were supposed to achieve, which are related to waste disposal, or the part that can't be recycled, and as expressed in certain percentages, we're unfortunately late, we're far behind because we're changing, changing, changing and changing and changing policies. When we talk about municipal waste, a key player in the whole story when we talk about municipal waste is a municipal society, is a community society. And the fact is that members of the Supervisory Board are sitting in these communal societies, but members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by whom, which I think is normal, by the owners. Therefore, they must de facto implement the policy of the owner. The owner of a municipal society can be more than one JLS, it can only be one. In case the board of directors doesn't work well, it all depends on what kind of trade relations they are. Therefore, there is no escape from responsibility and the word for everything is the Zagreb mayor's fault. It's the management's fault, but it's also the mayor's political responsibility without further ado, but it's also the supervisory board because it means it or not if he was implementing the mayor's policy to apologize then the supervisory board is not guilty. Why now, that I'm already, a little bit of a look at, uh, my predecessor. However, what is very important is the issue of application in practice. So we're going to have glass separation, metal separation, plastic separation, but the question is what happens next? Unfortunately, no citizen of the Republic of Croatia knows that. So that's a question that we still don't have regulated, but it turns out that it generates losses to municipal societies because municipal societies have absolutely no material benefit whatsoever, and also citizens at the ultimate cost of driving this waste de facto, and they have absolutely nothing. We're going to stimulate it to separate as much as possible, but with the one apart from that I don't know what we have, nobody knows, it doesn't really write in this law, it predicts something, and that's what the problem is. The other thing, we're not talking about one thing that's also very important, and that's industrial waste. We were talking about factories here, business, this, that. The economy produces industrial waste. Industrial waste is not in the jurisdiction of municipal companies. I was a councilman six years ago and I watched a presentation to get rid of my colleague from Vishkova, the black pit of Olitiga Sovjak, where INA deposited its industrial waste. After three mandates, so two mandates ago, I watched the same presentation with just some new technology. But it was 20 years ago, and that the state that has industrial waste in its jurisdiction has not yet recovered what it is, which is an ecological bomb because we live on the karst terrain and are already being tested and it is known that if the bottom gives up all that waste industry, one earthquake is enough to be a little stronger than that in Zagreb, it will all end up in Kvarner Bay on the coast of Opatija. So much, I can see I have replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52271	We've got two replicas, the first distinguished representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Fabianic, you have in some way expressed your skepticism as to whether Croatia will be able to follow the ambitious objectives that the EU has set in its circular economy package, and this was my question as well as a minister who has responded quite optimisticly and said that through this law, but also through indicators and efforts that have been made in the previous 4 years. We have reason to be optimistic. According to the data provided by the company, the percentage of separate collection of waste from 2011 from 16% in 2019 to 37%, and the drop in waste disposal in 2011 was 91%, even reduced to 59% in 2019. Of course, greater efforts should be made and this should be improved, and these 4 billion kuna investments in waste management are also important in this regard. You mentioned the location of the Soviet in which more than 320 million EU grants were invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52273	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52274	If you want to, ma'am. Petir I say 20 years and more, you and I can go, I can arrange a visit for you, so you can see because right next to the black cave the Soviet is the same seven years ago. You will see that you are now generating or extracting gas and producing electricity from the gas. So we also have examples of good practice when we talk about municipal waste in that part, but unfortunately when we talk about industrial waste, I am glad that it is now, but we have been waiting for it for two decades, and the authority of the state has always been the same independently of European funds and not European funds. INA's pay good this, I think INA, INA as such should have taken care of it, but it's not, it's not, it's not, and hence my skepticism, hence my skepticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52275	The next replica is a respected representative of Sinisha Yunkac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52276	Here's a respected colleague, you as a scrupulous politician should know that the supervisory board does not manage society, it oversees the work of society, that society is managed by management but ultimately by the supervisory board and the administration defines the city administration, i.e. in this case, the mayor. In order for any municipal enterprise to do something, whether it was done here to that little thing, an increase in the cost of depriving municipal waste without consent with the city, with the municipality they can't do it. So it's not just a utility company that manages it, but clearly manages it when it's appointed by the Supervisory Board and it's just being appointed by the mayor, it approves them and the height, the price level, etc., so, without the consent of local self-government, there's nothing that utility companies can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52277	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52278	So, we have the Company Act, we have the Company Act, we have the Community Act, and we have a social contract on the community society itself, what the tasks of the Supervisory Board are, and who's setting it up. Far from being even more responsible than members of the administration, it is very, very well known to me, but we cannot be exempt from responsibility now if I am a member of the supervisory board of any commercial society and that simply, I have worked past the ownership will. Well, the owner set me up, I think it's a private business, so they're no exception to the mayor's responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52279	On behalf of the HDZ club, the final debate was held by the respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52280	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Finally, I would like to say about this Waste Management Act that we have a better law than we have so far, which in its provisions tried to comply with the opinions given by the Constitutional Court, in particular the part of the regulation relating to the price of the cost. So what we discussed more or less today, it all makes sense, and I believe that this debate has also shown that the Waste Management Act has not prevented anyone, nor has it prevented him from dealing with this issue in the way that is best for any local self-government. These attempts to bring the biggest responsibility to the government through the law story, in my opinion do not have too many grounds because it shows the ground that one who is better, more resourceful and who wants to do and to provide a service does so and there is no problem in general. The framework is the same for everyone who wanted to do it, who wasn't involved in some other activities. These today may not or may not have reaffirmed their mandate, so they will continue at another time. It may not have been the most important thing, but to accept that I don't have a bucket in my municipality so that the faulty government can't be, because a number of competitions have been called, funds are provided for buckets both for recycling yards, so for sorting plants, so for loading stations, so for disposal recovery, so for construction of waste management centers. If the regional self-government unit isn't ready for a decade to prepare the paperwork, that's what I said at the the thematic sessions, so you have nothing to call the government why you didn't build the center, it's your responsibility, why you didn't. I was also talking about these reasons because today it's still cheaper to empty waste or garbage on some part called a dump and pay nothing than to take it to that same center, so something costs more than a ton more, by a ton of something so much that's the difference, and that's what we have to talk about clearly. But what is the government's fault? Because she secured funds through numerous tenders that were called right through that fund that we're talking about here today. We were blocked for two years in '17, '18 because of the debts that were inherited, which remained from some other time. Why can't we talk about it? We may, may the media be looking for the culprit, it is certainly not this current minister or someone from this current administration in any part of it, let it all clear out nicely. But to talk about the law in a way that it does not contribute, it does very much contribute and all of our doubts about the fixed part, the variable part again on every local self-government leader was the mayor, the mayor, he was the director of the municipal society, exactly what counterpart Fabianic said, they are the most responsible directors of municipal societies. Who puts them in their position? The Assembly, i.e. The mayor and the captain. We see that these days everyone's talking about some shifts, everyone wants some new people, so let them work on those systems and adjust them, just make sure they don't do much, that's all. That they don't spend a lot of time in that part so that in the end they find it's the government's fault that they didn't do anything because it's all out there. There are competitions, look at sites and funds, the Ministry of Protection every day whoever wants, what the government has done for every municipal society, whatever you want from the can, from subsidising the transport itself, from getting municipal vehicles, from co-financing 85-15 for the recycling yard, for the loading station, for the sorting room, for the recovery of the dump, for whatever you need to do business. If you have 85% of the grant makes a job, and you can't say I didn't do anything, it's the government's fault because it's the easiest thing for me to say, and nobody cares about it too much while the bill is small. So tomorrow in Zagreb you have to say if you're going to close Jakuševac it costs you something, it's going to cost you a lot more than it costs now because I said what the difference is. And this new center, when it's built, let them make it as soon as they can, they all promised. Now it's time to try and realize everything we said in our campaigns, and let's not come back later on, it's the government or someone in the past because we didn't do the job. You'll have to explain it to the citizens because they don't want to be too likely to deal with everything that's been gone, it's been changed. If it wasn't well-replaced. Now we're looking at you and it's time. And this law, believe me, has given everyone the opportunity to adapt the system to themselves, and that says clearly in the article, sustainable management of the entire waste management system. And you're gonna do what it looks like to be sustainable, whether it's more expensive or cheaper on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52281	We've exhausted the debate with this. He's closing the debate. I'd like to thank the Secretary of State for your cooperation. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of services in tourism, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Tonchi Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52284	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The current Tourism Service Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018 and which was amended and updated twice in 2019 and once in 2020, provides for the means and conditions under which legal and natural persons can provide services in tourism. The amendments and additions to the laws currently in place before you are adopted primarily because of two infringements of European Union law against the Republic of Croatia, launched by the European Commission and related to Directive 2015/2302 on travel in packages of arrangements and related arrangements in relation to vouchers and Directive 2006/123 on services on the internal market and Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to the regulated profession of the tourist guide. Both infringements of EU law are in the second stage of the infringement procedure, i.e. a reasoned opinion, i.e. at the last stage prior to the initiation of proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In order to ensure the liquidity of tourist agencies but also to protect the rights of passengers, including the right to repay the amount paid for unexploited travel due to the pandemic of Covid-19 in April 2020, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism of the National Journal 42/20, which gave tourists the possibility to issue vouchers for unfinished travel, instead of the obligation to pay money back to passengers within 14 days as prescribed by the Travel Directive in the package arrangements. Therefore, the amendments to the Law of April 2020 stipulated that due to the special circumstances for non-executive travel contracts in the package of arrangements that were to be implemented after 1 March 2020, the passenger is entitled to terminate the travel contract in the package after the expiry of 180 days from the date of termination of the special circumstances and the travel organiser for the same passengers issues a voucher. If a passenger decides to repay the funds, the organiser shall make a return of the funds paid within 14 days of the expiry of 180 days of the end of the special circumstances. Due to the uncertainty of the period related to the termination of the Covid-19 disease epidemic, by erasing the provision of a voucher, Article 38a of the applicable Law, passengers will be able to choose by way of effect of the amendments in question whether they want to arrange a replacement journey on the basis of the Voucher issued or to terminate the contract and exercise the right to repay the funds paid within 14 days of the termination of the contract. We point out that these amendments ensure an adequate level of consumer protection and full compliance with the Packages Directive. In my first reading in the Croatian Parliament and on the Committee on Tourism, I was informed that the amendments in question could be a burden on tourist agencies, which could be found in major financial difficulties following the entry into force of these changes due to a greater number of requests for funds. In view of the above, it should be recalled that the Government of the Republic of Croatia took the decision at its meeting on 4 February 2021 to adopt a programme to grant state aid to the tourism and sports sectors in the current pandemic Covida-19, which was approved by the European Commission by its decision of 11 January 2021. The programme aims to provide financial support to businesses operating in the tourism and sports sectors to mitigate the consequences of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus's coronary on their business. The programme is implemented by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in collaboration with HBOR, HAMAG-BICRO and business banks. The issue of state guarantees for credit ratings enables easier access to liquidity by financial institutions in order to preserve the continuity of economic activity in the tourism and sports sector. On 9 March 2021, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports issued an invitation to entrepreneurs to use State aid programmes as part of the economic recovery measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The total amount of funds foreseen under that programme is 1 and a half billion kuna. The HAMAG-BICRO and HBOR intermediate bodies shall implement aid in the form of a guarantee for new loans provided for in Section 3.1, therefore a limited amount of support, and the maximum planned amount of kuna, referred to in Section 3.2 of the loan guarantee, in the form of a maximum amount of 500 million kuna. Requests for loans secured by this guarantee may be submitted by entrepreneurs to business banks in the Republic of Croatia and the HBOR. An additional advantage is that the interest rate on loans secured by this guarantee is reduced by at least 0.5% compared to the interest rate at which the credit would be granted without using the guarantee. So far, 55 guarantees per measure 3.1 totalling more than 59 million kuna have been issued from HAMAG-BICRO, and one guarantee per measure 3.2 by HBOR in the amount of 4 million kuna, and at this point we can assume that we have 3 times more requirements than this number currently mentioned in the processing of different banks and businesses currently in the Republic of Croatia. According to data received from the Croatian Travel Agency Association during August 2020, the total funds paid for unexploited travel among the surveyed members were already paid back to passengers independently of the legal provision and the possibility of issuing a voucher. Furthermore, regarding tourist guides, the national reform programme of 2020 through the reform priority 411 improvement of the business environment and with a view to sustainable economic growth and development, the liberalisation of services markets is envisaged by facilitating access to regulated professions by removing barriers to freedom of business created and providing services on the internal market. In this respect, and in order to comply with the Services Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive, it is necessary to amend the law in the section relating to the regulated profession of the tourist guide. The infringement of EU law relating to the regulated profession of the tourist guide refers to the obligation to pass a specific part of the expert examination for EU and European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation which wish to provide services on a temporary and occasional basis. The current law, which has been in force since 1 January 2018, stipulates that a tourist guide from another EU Member State or the Swiss Confederation who wishes to provide temporary and occasional services to a tourist guide in Croatia can provide them on protected sites only if they pass a special part of a professional examination, which is now organised by county. It is also prescribed that the specific part of the examination should apply to protected units of localities which are prescribed by county and which, according to the applicable Regulation, have more than 550. The final draft of the law in Article 7 deletes words by county, thus creating a prerequisite for a different way of organisation and laying down only a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides. In the first reading in the Croatian Parliament and in the previous meeting of the Committee on Tourism on the Proposal of Representatives Mate Frankovic and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, a proposal was put forward to regulate the way in which the specific part of the examination should be organised already in law and in such a way that it should be organised instead of county-specific examinations, according to the regions, so it proposes 5 historically and geographically connected regions and the final proposal for the law to prescribe that the programme of the specific section of the expert examination consists of a special part of the expert examination consisting of a special part of the expert examination for protected units and localities across the regions. It follows from the applicable law that a tourist guide who wishes to provide services throughout the Republic of Croatia would have to pass a total of 21 specific parts of the expert examination and, for reasons of duration and financial burden, could be considered to limit access to the alleged regulated profession, of course. The expert exam for the tourist guide is currently subject to the examination committee in the relevant higher universities which carry out the least professional or university studies at the pre-graduate level in the field of tourism or have direction or teaching courses in the field of tourism, and in accordance with the Regulation on the expert examination for tourist guides. The new Regulation on expert examination for tourist guides, whose adoption is scheduled in the third quarter of this year, will define the organisation of examinations for the tourist guide. For the purposes of drawing up that Regulation, it is designated by Decision of 8. In March 2021, a special working group consisting of representatives of higher universities who conduct that expert exam as well as associations of tourist guides and other professional public. And this expert task force counts over 39 members. And the first meeting of the working group was held on 11 March 2021. The final draft of the law lays down the basis to organise tests by region instead of county and will define the laying down of a specific section of the expert examination according to one of the following options. A specific section of the expert examination organised according to NUC regions or a specific section of the expert examination organised according to proposals and outcome of the discussion in the working group as well as the list of protected units or localities. Since a particular part of the expert examination will be dealt with by the expert working group, we believe that the regulation would now, in the law of the way of the organisation, examine the exact definition of the region as well as the list of localities, prejudge the work and outcome of the work of the expert working group. And that theme requires an expert analysis of all actors, and it would also be unnecessary to burden the text of the law with regard to a large number of localities. In this respect, we cannot accept the proposal put forward on the Committee on Tourism that regions under which the expert examination will take place are already defined in the law. In addition, we note that according to the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, so National No. 82/15, 121/19 and 47/20, the Ministry of Tourism and Sport in the process of adopting that Regulation is obliged to carry out an assessment of proportionality and to consult the interested public on the same. Furthermore, the current proposal to amend and supplement the law in Article 7 complements Article 70(2) of the applicable law relating to persons who are citizens of the EU and the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation who temporarily and occasionally wish to provide tourist guide services in Croatia in such a way that they must pass a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides for protected localities without the obligation to pass a general part of the expert examination for tourist guides. Therefore, in accordance with the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of qualifications, National Journals 82/15, 70/19 and 47/20 in Article 6(4) which are transposed into national legislation by the Directive on regulated professions, it is prescribed that the competent authority should for no reason restrict persons wishing to provide services to the Republic of Croatia on a temporary and occasional basis except in exceptional situations, and these restrictions must be proportionate and without discrimination. Therefore, the applicable law, which has been in force since 2018, for persons from the European Economic Area of the EU and the Swiss Confederation in the Republic of Croatia, can provide tourist guide services on a temporary and occasional basis only if they pass a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides, so it is now 21 special exam for over 550 localities. Such persons in the Republic of Croatia on an annual basis have little less than 100 and provide services on an annual basis on an average of 2 to 3 times a week. Furthermore, the proposal to amend and supplement the law of the protected whole and localities will be defined as protected units and sites of artistic, archaeological or historical heritage, which is in accordance with the case-law of the EU Court of Justice and recognised as the dominant reason for the general interest in introducing additional conditions for the provision of services. The final draft law also adopted the proposal in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament according to which the Regulation on the list of protected sites will adopt, with the prior opinion of the competent and defenders, with the previously prescribed opinion of the competent cultural and environmental protection tasks. This will also allow for the adoption of the implementing rules, which will therefore be laid down in accordance with proposals and outcomes of the debate in the Regulation-making working group and the preliminary opinion of the Ministry of Defence and Culture and Environmental Protection. I would also like to refer to another remark made on the first reading in HS and the meeting of the Tourism Committee regarding the definition in the current law of knowledge of Croatian language to a sufficient extent for foreign tourist guides and the necessary regulation of language knowledge according to standard language knowledge levels, such as level B2 of the Common European Language Reference Framework. Therefore, in the applicable law which has been in force since 1.1.2018, Art. 73a he is not subject to the amendment and addition of this proposal of the Law, it is very important, but now results in the fact that the tourist guide should know the language in which he will provide the services of the B2 tourist guide according to the degrees of the Common European Reference Framework in understanding and speech and Croatian to the extent sufficient to provide tourist guide services. As part of the proposal presented on the Committee on Tourism, that, as a condition for access to the profession of a tourist guide, four-year secondary education is prescribed, I note that the same is not the subject of these amendments to the law, but we believe that the process of passing a professional examination will achieve a quality level of knowledge and, consequently, a quality level of provision of tourist guide services. As the Committee on Tourism points out the dissatisfaction of tourist guides with the high cost of passing exams, it is these changes that will allow the passing of fewer exams instead of the 21st and general part so far, there should also be a total reduction in the cost of passing exams, and of course, this is very important for all of our future tourist guides and those who will deal with this business. All these amendments and additions to the Law facilitate access to professionalism, as well as to future domestic tourist guides, as well as to EU citizens, European Economic Area who wish to provide services in the Republic of Croatia. It is also noted that the transitional and final provisions regulate the recognition of the already acquired professional qualifications of tourist guides in such a way that they will be able to provide services in accordance with the established solutions for the counties. Other amendments and additions to the laws relate to the harmonisation of expressions concerning the delivery of certain data from the solution to the central register of catering activities and services in tourism. Since the Croatian Digital Tourism project will establish a central register that will be interoperable with the digital systems of other bodies, only individual data, not the whole solution, will be provided by the authorities, at the request of the body in the solution, and in this respect it was necessary to coordinate the expressions in the text of the Law. The amendments also relate to the obligation to register the rent-a-car service providers in order to combat the abuse of rental vehicles by users of services for the purpose of human trafficking and to prescribe certain infringement provisions for more effective conduct of inspection supervision, so that, among other things, the State Inspectorate is required and sanctioning the provision of tourist guide services that would be provided without a solution. One of the amendments is the obligation of internet platforms to highlight VAT and the identification number of service providers in the Republic of Croatia, and is also brought in order to prevent unregistered accommodation, as VAT and identification bonds are all owners who receive services from taxpayers based in EU Member States or provide services to taxpayers based in Member States. Therefore, when small taxpayers receive services from taxpayers from other Member States of the Union or third countries, they are required to account for and pay Croatian VAT for the services received. The Legislative Committee had no objection to the final draft law. That's it for the opening part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52285	We have a few replicas. The first is Boška Ban Vlahek's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52286	Dear Secretary of State, it is clear to me that yesterday we also spoke on the Committee that this law must be passed, but this bill only puts it into the degradation of the profession and interpretation of cultural and historical heritage, which is justified in Croatia, which is a receptive tourist country, will affect the country's reputation in the world. I've done it a few times already, I repeat this time. This bill really represents, as the profession itself says, the nail in the coffin of all Croatian tourist guides and the absolute deregulation of the profession of tourist guides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52287	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52288	So what enables, among other things, this Law and what enables the EU Directives, an additional significant opportunity for Croatian guides in the Republic of Croatia, because all guides licensed in the Republic of Croatia in our way and in the structure of education, can likewise lead groups in any other EU member state precisely because these directives, which we now transpose into our legislation, are made possible by them, and which is one of the EU's fundamental and postulates. So our tourist guides, among other things, have been given the opportunity to expand their business and not to deal with business only in the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the additional values, and I would not agree with you in any part of it, so that it is degradation, but it is simple to adapt the EU regulatory, therefore to the single market in which we function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52289	Next replica, the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52290	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will use this topic of providing services in tourism for a more recent question, if you can answer me. We saw recently, about a week ago, that the first train with Czech, Slovak and Hungarian tourists came to Split. More importantly, with that train came 30 tourist journalists to visit our destination, I congratulate you, and I congratulate you on this route and the Ministry on all the activities that we are doing right on the subject and Tourism is waking up, but also to show that we are a safe destination. I saw that you, too, had been in Krakow for two, three days, that you were still running a delegation from Croatia, that there was also a line between the Baltic and the Adriatic. I want to know exactly that, is there going to be such lines and what exactly are the reactions and relationships with our eminent, normal, and tourist partners, but also those guests we expect this season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52291	I appreciate the question. Yes, you are right, so Croatia is a country located in the heart of Europe and a destination that is relatively easily accessible to most of our broadcasting markets. So, on the basis of some observation of our future European green trade and the reduction of the negative consequences on the environment, there is one significant, significant initiative at Europe level, so on the distribution of guests among other railways as a very acceptable way of transporting guests. We have, therefore, already last year, here this year you've had opportunity to see that our minister has welcomed theridget jet train from the Czech Republic and Slovakia. So, we are already with 4 of our significant broadcasting markets connecting to the railways and this visit from a few days ago was just that Poland was therefore the market that last year was the third largest market for us as well as since next year we connect to the railway. So, from Warsaw to Split, I hope that's what we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52292	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state seems to me from this final bill that we can still say that you have heard what the profession has said and what the MPs have said and even more detailed certain provisions to remove any doubt that there will be room for possibly some incompetent guides or those who will take bread to our guides and in the wrong way interpret our history, identity, culture and heritage. That is why I think it is very important to introduce these consents to be given by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Environmental Protection when we talk about particularly protected sites that have 550 in Croatia, because we want guides who will interpret both the Homeland War and our Croatian history and everything we are proud of, which we are particularly sensitive to to be interpreted in the right way and I believe that with these additional reinforcements you are now providing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52294	Thank you for that comment. Yeah, that's exactly what we tried to figure out in the opening statement. So we have just protected both our profession and we have protected the way and ultimately the content that our guides or guides who will lead in the Republic of Croatia must therefore have very clear specific knowledge. So, let me repeat this once again, it is very important that the special part of the expert exam relating to protected sites that really have significant numbers in the Republic of Croatia. This service can only be provided by guides either Croatian or foreign but who have completed and passed a special part of the expert exam which can be performed only in Croatia at Croatian universities and which is very important that they pass the exam in Croatian and respond to the examination committee in Croatian, of course, and among other things, except the representatives of the university in these examination committees are tourist guides. So we absolutely tried to do everything to protect this profession and the quality of information leading in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52295	The next replica is the respected representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52296	Thank you very much, Vice President. I was pleased to hear that at the 66th meeting of the Commission for Europe of the World Tourism Organisation, held recently in Athens, Croatia was elected member of the World Tourism Organisation Executive Council for the period 2021. - 2025. What I'm interested in is exactly what it means for the Republic of Croatia and what it means for our tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52297	So in the last two mandates and the previous term of office of this government and this mandate of the current Government of the Republic of Croatia, it has made a great effort to position Croatia in a very important and high place on the concept and finality of the adoption of certain solutions to tourism policy at Europe level specifically. So, the issue related to Croatia's election to the World Tourism Organisation Executive Council in the Commission for Europe is really important for the Republic of Croatia because Croatia is one of the key countries that will have the opportunity to manage and manage policies, initiatives that serve rarely and as legal bases and as initiatives to change certain ways and ways and policies, as well as budgets and finances in the next. Croatia is also one of the countries that will, in the coming period not only through this part, but through the leadership of the special Committee on Sustainableness and Tourism at the World Tourism Organisation, whose presidency we are taking over in the 9th month of this year, strongly dictate in a certain way the pace and certain tourist policies that are very important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52298	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52299	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here you are while you're answering, and during your law presentation, you show that you have very good diction, but in some places I suppose on purpose for some reason things are very quiet and very fast. I'm going to ask you to tell the agencies again how many other travel agencies are trying to make up for that liquidity that they lack because of the trips that have failed in the package arrangements and how much you said the maximum is because I think I heard 500 million kuna well that the maximum amount of that money that is expected and that through HBOR, HAMAG-BICRO should be paid to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52300	Thank you. Thank you for asking the question, dear Parliamentarian. So to try to be very clear, so according to the information we have from the market from our largest professional association, there are approximately 30 million kunas of unreturned funds left that should now be returned to the consumers who have paid them. But in this part, it is very important, therefore, precisely the programme of state aid that you mentioned, and in this programme, state aid is the amount that has been provided for the entire tourist sector is 1 billion kuna for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and 500 million kuna for large ones. But another important thing I didn't mention in the opening part, and it's very important that you know that it is right now in the debate and should be in the government's procedure for the next few weeks, among other things, and the decision on the Small Value Support Programme to help affected activities between other tourism sectors, i.e. concrete tourist agencies, and in that part we plan to provide 36 million kunas that would go as direct state support to agencies in solving their problems, so with the aim of the sustainability of tourist agencies and the possibilities for further business. [[Intruder: Time.]] So 2 very clear financial injections that are happening right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52301	The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52302	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Matula has actually taken away my question, but here I would like to commend the very insistence of the Ministry and the Government, which has very spotlessly reacted precisely to provide liquidity for entrepreneurs in this branch of industry. And I wanted to point out this precisely that these changes in the budget were in fact a total of 150 million kuna and, among other things, for the tourism, transport and industry sector, which would help just to help entrepreneurs to overcome this crisis that has had a drastic effect on them and on all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52303	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52304	Thank you, exactly that, that was on the agenda yesterday, so budget rebalance. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has very clearly seen no, so all those who are threatened with this pandemic and through the whole procedure from start to day, and it will be so much more since the measures announced and the extensions that are very important for our economy are that every company in the Republic of Croatia that we have the opportunity to help in the way that it thunders all together, and it is also not exactly random for this whole team that is happening here, because yet we are, by the information that we have at our disposal, the last country in the EU, for example, which is this part of the voucher and the return of funds still has an unsettled, given that it was a very important topic at EU level, given that we are working on the protection of consumer rights, here we are doing it all together in one main part of the tourist season when we still have new income and when we have the largest possible that these agencies can function naturally with all these financial injections and help that we are making available.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52305	Next replica, respected representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State one thing has been so little the same silence, and it's very important. So, it's an obligation for a booking platform to publish VAT and ID therefore the identification number of service providers which, as you said, is actually trying to separate all those accommodation units that are properly registered from those that are not, and each other are thus advertised through certain platforms. I think it would be very necessary at this point for all of our people to give a clear warning that, of course, those who are not registered, to register as soon as possible. Or my question is, are there any firmly defined deadlines for this to happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52307	I thank you for the question and for opening this topic yesterday at the Assembly Committee on Tourism and now here, therefore a very important and very important part of this law. So we are dealing with this very clearly even more significantly than before with the black and gray economy or with all those tenants or any of the providers of tourist catering services that have been published on portals and sold and provided services, and are not registered or categorized in this way. So we have already introduced that obligation to service providers, catering services so that they all know it together. So, the only ones who do all this together are companies or natural persons who are most directly breaking the law and are engaged in unregistered activities, and we have further introduced the possibility of controlling or imposing obligations on those portals that declare that they should not publish unregistered persons or legal persons and to prevent a black and gray economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52308	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52309	The chairman, State Secretary, so as far as I'm concerned, he would remind us once again about the agency and we were the first to go with the voucher, and probably the last in Europe to lock him up. However, we would not look at it so negatively because we tried to extend it as much as we could, although on the one hand, of course, it was looked at to protect consumers, but 7 and a half thousand jobs were protected, over 2,000 agencies, so it was very important to stress. I'm not going to say in any way that I'm afraid, but regardless of all these funds that have been made available, I'm sure some agencies won't be able to achieve it because no matter what there is, a guarantee, let's say, on some side, even 100%, I think some banks are holding back the right not to betray it. So we have to understand that certain problems could come so easily, and let's not forget that the hotelers are the same, we wanted to give that voucher somewhere around 120 million took an advance that I don't know if He's managed to get it all back. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52310	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52311	I thank you for your comment that you are rightly respected former ministers right in your term we were the first to have done this kind of protection that we practically introduced into the legislation in a few days if I remember well and here we are among the last to change that part. It is precisely one of the reasons why it is going with another new small-value support programme to help affected activities that are now being rebalanced and secured, and will now be implemented in the next few weeks, we wanted to make an additional 36 million kuna financial injection for our tourist agencies as a help to further strengthen them financially so that at this moment we could all restart our activities and, regardless of whether they received a state support programme or one of the Covid credits, there were two rounds of Covid credits where the tourist sector had reported well, so we did absolutely everything possible of course with the protection of all jobs that allowed them to return very quickly and efficiently with their activities. We've done everything we can to help them. I hope that most of them and most of them will survive right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52312	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52313	Thank you. First and foremost, I can say that we welcome the tourism sector and the agencies that will remain liquid through these programmes of the government, but when we talk about the quality of the presentation of our heritage to guests and tourists, the fact remains that you have not quite accepted all the remarks of tourist guides that have spoken about the quality of the education of tourist guides. So this already explained the simple knowledge of language to a sufficient extent to write so in some law it is simply unacceptable to eat, but here I will ask you, from the final proposal, the proposal for an article according to which guides who have passed for certain counties continue to retain acquired rights for a special part of whether it is by county. How is this going to be organised in the regions now, is it what happens to those who passed it on to the county? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52314	I thank you, therefore, for the level of language knowledge I've already tried to vividly explain the last time we were here. So it's important that we know who she's referring to. So here where we have an obligation to know the language in which the B2 service is provided it means that, let's say, if we have a group that comes to us from France, it's logical that the guide that leads them to the Republic of Croatia in our localities that it must have a level of language B2 so that it can quality interpret our history and offer quality leadership. Now, if we are talking about a tourist guide who comes to us from France, and there is no specific part, so it can lead only this general part, it is logical that his knowledge of the language is quite sufficient, given that he runs the French group, and if he also wants to lead groups in special localities, he must complete the course in Croatia in front of the Croatian exam committee and pass the test, and in this sense we believe that there is no need to further limit the factor It's that this one has that kind of education. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52315	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52316	Well, now we won't insist that we don't really know if you're going to admit those you've already laid down in certain counties and I'm going to say something, it's not entirely up to you. In this law something happened that I think will happen more and more often, and that is that life will deny this insistence of HDZ to preserve as many counties as we now have. So, banal and practical life situations such as passing tests for a tourist guide shows how irrational, restrictive and burdensome it is to have a system in which we have 20 unnecessary counties that generally serve as flow water heaters to service HDZ personnel. How in this law, in a whole series of examples, Croatia will really need to organise in 5 geographical regions, logically, economically, historically, touristically however you want to connect the whole, so I hope that this trend will continue through a whole series of other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52317	Thank you very much, thank you for correcting me, so that part is defined in the transitional and final provisions and, of course, the part relating to guides that have already been laid down for a particular county that they will have to be respected, and as regards the model chosen by way of a position, so for passing tests by regions whether it will be according to NUC regions or by historical regions, so it remains for the decision of the expert commission or the working group that will define it, therefore, and by defining these two key regulations that are related to this law. But this proposal of the way and definition and the reason for the find in the law has just been implemented here in the Croatian Parliament during the meeting of the Tourism and First Reading Committee in the Croatian Parliament since, therefore, I have already noted from Representative Frankovic and several representatives from the HDZ Club, but also from the opposition. I think there was an agreement and that was, of course, the reason why we accepted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52318	The next replica is a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52319	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, please one clarification, the proposal to amend this law implies the acceptance of foreign professional qualifications as a tourist guide. However, there are 13 countries in this area of the EU with the Swiss Confederation where this activity is not regulated and in this case they can alternatively be recognised for one year of any work experience in this industry, if I have interpreted it well, any work experience involves therefore also a German bus driver who drives a group of German tourists through one of these regions in which it will be defined as being able to serve them as a guide. The part that interests me, during the first reading of this law you told me in one replica that all service providers both domestic and foreign must observe all the provisions of this law including that they must have a guide card of the tourist guide. I wonder how this one-year work experience will be checked as an adequate qualification to request a tourist card through the AKD system. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52320	Thank you very much for asking, so I'll start with the other part of this question right now. So, the guide of the country that comes to Croatia must lead on a temporary and occasional basis must be registered with the Ministry of Tourism, so it is registered. It is that group of 100ths a year about what I stated in the opening statement, so they are registered in this way and, therefore, in the operation of the inspection they see very clearly that they are either registered or not, therefore, controlled equally. In addition to an integral part of the amendments to these laws, it was not the case for the State Inspectorate that, among other things, unregistered conditionally, those providing black services could also, on the spot, legitimise and punish and react as soon as possible. And this part about the general and the specific part is therefore very simply the general part being transferred from the legislation of the country where a certain qualification comes, depending on their qualification and they can therefore lead only on that general part of the specific part, here is what we have already said and mentioned, very clearly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52321	Time. The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52322	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of HS, dear secretary of state, for mentioning in your presentation that the law in question, among other things, provides that a special part of the expert examination for the tourist guide, instead of the county, is to be laid down according to the regions, which will be further, i.e. in detail, by the regulation. I am interested in what exactly regions will it be, and how and within what time period will you manage it, or spend it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52323	Thank you. So, as I have already mentioned, a particular model will be chosen by a professional working group that will work on two key regulations that are related to this Act. These rules were, therefore, the first meeting of that working group already held, we are planning and we wish to define these regulations in the third quarter of this year. So it would be unserious if we had put into law the exact way of defining it because it's still a decision we've left to the profession, so that we don't prejudge the best solution that will come from the expert working group that I say counts over 39 members. So the 2 options are either the NUTS region or the region, therefore, the Croatian historical region, but I say, we will leave that to the profession to be defined and clearly stated in the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52324	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52325	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in your presentation you said and indeed in the first reading of this Law on behalf of the HDZ Club, a colleague made some suggestions, remarks on the law in the first reading, some of you respected. I would ask you to point out here again and explain to us the provisions of the laws relating to the knowledge of the Croatian language of tourist guides of citizens of other countries who will occasionally or temporarily perform and provide tourist guide services to the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we know that there is still a law in force that has entered into force. In January 2018, it laid down a number of provisions which did not change these amendments and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52326	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52327	Yeah, that's right, so once again and very clearly, I hope that this is, uh, the core. As regards knowledge of foreign language, if we have a general part and a special part, if the foreign guide wants to lead groups in the Republic of Croatia, on protected sites, it must pass a special part of the expert examination at Croatian universities in front of the examination committee, which among other things sits Croatian tourist guides and if it is able to pass that part, therefore, it is certain that it has sufficient knowledge of language knowledge and level B2 according to the degrees of the Common European Reference Framework applies therefore to persons providing services in the language in which the service will be provided, therefore, to the foreign language of the tourist guide. It is also perfectly clear in that part, and it is also very important to stress that in the applicable law, which has been in force since 1.1.2018. 73. So, Art. 73 was not the subject of an amendment and addition to this bill at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52328	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now we're going to take 10 minutes off because it's been more than three hours, so we're going to continue at 16.25. [[It's 4:16 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] We continue with the debate, the first Green-left bloc representative club, the distinguished representative of Willim Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52330	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, well, colleagues and colleagues. So, finally, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in tourism which here in the second reading can actually come down to and you inside agree to de facto on 5 important topics. There's a question of the voucher that I want to immediately say that on the one hand, we certainly support it from the green-left block to help the tourist agencies who came to this inexplicable position that they had promised something, sold to people some trips to the package arrangements before the crown and were simply disabled at some point to actually deliver it at the moment when it was this, imagined and I can understand it that and that money on some other things was spent and that they needed in every sense of help, anyway. However, I would still like to remind my colleagues and colleagues that we have been instructed to remove this article because it is in this final proposal for a law on amendments. So, Art. Six is very clear, he says, the title behind the article. Article 38a 38a's being wiped out. Okay, you who have been sitting here longer, and even we who have just observed it before, we know that there are such articles that show that they are superfluous, but I just want to say in the shortest sense, that what bothers me, that there was something really inappropriate about this law, and that is very similar to us, which means that we have come up with misery and that we have written that if people really insist on money, if they don't want a voucher, even though it insisted first and on a voucher, it means 180 days from the end of the special circumstances. 6 months from the end of the special circumstances, and then after that is due man within 14 days, so 194. I mean, at least for people in Europe, it's so unusual and I'm not surprised that they were complaining then and that the Commission, what it was, reacted and said that such an article couldn't be and here we are now, we have to move it here, but I still want it to be said about what happened here. Yeah, I don't think he should have been in this shape, and it's actually us, that there's a bad picture of us working that way, but we certainly support it to help people get over this crisis, and I hope that this year, they'll have enough tourists, that they'll make enough trips to get over this pain. I would also like to say that the experience of this crisis, which is neither the width nor the length nor the duration of this crisis, can still not see at all what it is, the only thing that colleagues have compared here, is the truth, that it can be compared, is not as deadly as the "Spanish" that came after the creepy war, but that the crisis is economical, which then came when everything broke down to a second terrible war, and I want to believe that there will be ways to get over it. In any case, I am glad that Europe has discovered that the way it has dealt with the problem of speculation and until then we have considered it the most intelligent, the smartest, bravest, most capable people who have speculated with our future, with our money, in enormous numbers and we have been impressed with them, and let's say, for example, Greeks have been allowed nothing, no forgiveness of any debt, nothing, that has now concluded that in this Europe can by all means leave no market for such problems and to imagine, now suddenly, it is interesting and liberals and Liberarians are bewitched to save employers. Of course he needs them, I can see that's what saves the workers. So of these questions, there's still a question of tourist guides, that's quite said, I'll say the same thing. Also, the issue of tourist inspectors and the abuse of rental-a-car vehicles in human trafficking across the border. As far as the issues of tourist guides are concerned, here, I can only say that, that the community of tourist guides' societies has begun their own testimony about this final bill and the amendments and additions to the following words, we are disappointed with the final proposal. And as every law in some way, it can feel some distortions of interest and it is all together somehow and normal and interests are maintained, among other things, by one who has power, and this has a party or coalition that is in power at that moment, has the power to exercise as he thinks and to shape interests. Now, in this case, there are, as it were, interests seem so complex to me on the side that we have to, you have set an example, groups from France, of course, from Great Britain, I hope that we will come to them, however much, as far as they are concerned, the epidemic seems to be afraid to suggest that they stay over fairies up, but certainly also to Dubrovnik and the entire South Adriatic, Dalmatia guests from the VB are very much needed and that, I understand that when they come here, they do not now need their tourist guides to go on these trips, they want to say it, and I believe that there are people who have mastered or because of their origin, but, or they have simply mastered B2 levels and that they have completed these tests that they can lead on the sites maybe through Dubrovnik or through Split. Of course that's possible, however, I think it's still very important that they come from very, it's our interest and you certainly in the law of one side of this, you break this, it's the interest of these great groups, like, people, who live in Europe, like outside, if people come to us from Russia, if they come to us from China or from Korea south, where we come from for years people, that it's what some other story is, and probably they'll take the same thing, I hope. But I can see that there are people who are concerned about the business of tourist guides. But now, it's interesting that, on the other hand, for some reason in the law, you insist that he has the least finished high school, and that the proposals people have made, that he has at least four years of high school, that's interesting. Then again it seems like it's important for us on the one hand to have a lot of people, and on the other hand, if from my godfather the kid who ended up three years old, people write it down right away. It's just, if you insist on it, I don't see any other reason that it stays exactly three years old that it can be. And finally, I need to say what colleague Oreshkovic said, that, anyway, I like that this form, this model of territorial division for tourist guides, actually indicates that local and regional self-government can be shared in a similar way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52331	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52332	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of services in tourism will support the HDZ Club. First of all, I would like to point out once again that these amendments and amendments to the laws concern two EU law enforcement procedures against the Republic of Croatia, which have been launched by the EU Commission and related to travel arrangements and travel arrangements in relation to vouchers and others related to the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to the regulated profession of tourist guides. The first reading on behalf of the HDZ Club also included some proposals, some remarks, some have been adopted, and some are explained today are opinions on how a particular issue is addressed. The proposal has been accepted that the submission of a specific section of the expert examination for tourist guides will be arranged by regions, not as originally imagined and proposed in the first reading of the law, unique for the whole of the Republic of Croatia. The application of Croatian language knowledge and knowledge to a sufficient extent is explained in a way that the applicable law, which has been adopted in HS without a vote, has prescribed that the tourist guide should know the language in which the B2 tourist guide services will be provided in understanding and speech, and the Croatian language is sufficient to provide tourist guide services, which again implies the knowledge of B2 level 2 language. Since the expert exam for the tourist guide needs to be passed in Croatian, we believe that the knowledge of Croatian language for passing an expert exam will also be sufficient to provide services in Croatian. Furthermore, as the secretary of state said, in the committee before which the exam is being passed, tourist guides or representatives of the tourist guides of the region for which the exam is being passed are also present. These amendments and additions to the current law are being implemented, as I said, due to violations of EU law. Therefore, the applicable law lays down the right to terminate the contract and issue of vouchers under special circumstances caused by the Covid-19 disease epidemic, according to which, as a result of the special circumstances for non-executive travel contracts in the package arrangement, which were to be carried out after 1 March 2020, the passenger has the right to terminate the travel contract in the package at the end of 180 days from the end of the special circumstances and the organisers for the same issue of the voucher. And if the passenger decides to repay the funds, the organiser shall make a return within 14 days of the expiry of the special circumstances. The relevant Article of the applicable law of termination of special circumstances relates to the decision to end the Covid 19 disease epidemic. Of course, we would be happy if the government had been able to do so already at the 9th session, but we see that it is difficult for the decision to be soon, although the number of patients is getting smaller and given the need, given these circumstances it was necessary to adopt or go to such amendments and amendments of the laws and now passengers will be able to choose or contract a replacement journey or terminate the contract with the basis of the issued voucher and to return the funds paid within 14 days of that breakup. This is, of course, a burden on the organisers of the package of arrangements that could be found in major financial difficulties, and that is why it was necessary to consider some type of funding through HBOR, Hamag Bicro, business banks and for this reason the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in cooperation with the same institutions implemented and implemented the programme and provided financial support to entrepreneurs who carry out activities in the tourism sector with the issue and state guarantees for credit ratings, thus allowing easier access to liquidity by financial institutions in order to preserve the continuity of economic activity in this sector. When it comes to professional tourist guides, we must know that they play a key role in promoting cultural heritage in synergy with local territory, its traditions and specialities. It is therefore considered that this profession should also have adequate protection on the labour market in order to guarantee high quality services while maintaining an open and fair competition. On the other hand, we have the National Reform Programme and further harmonisation with the directives. The liberalisation of the service market is foreseen by facilitating access to regulated professions, i.e. removing barriers to freedom of provision of services on the internal market. The Directive provides that tourist guides from one Member State may provide services in another Member State on an occasional basis or in a business situation. The applicable law stipulates that it is possible to provide them on protected sites only with a specific section of the expert examination organised by the county, so the problem has become a major fragmentation. Therefore, this very proposal allows for a different way, i.e. laying in the regions. It should be said that the specific part of the examination refers to protected units, localities prescribed and which according to the current Regulation we have 550. The list will also be brought with the consent of the defence minister responsible. It should be pointed out that all those sites involved in the Homeland War will be on the list of sites, and that a special part of the exams will also be required to prevent the wrong interpretation of them. Every guide who wants to lead to protected locations should listen to lectures and pass the exam in Croatian, which means he must listen, read, speak and write Croatian, which means he has the knowledge of our language level B2. I would also add that when we talk about protected sites, there should be a specific part of the exams, and for example in national parks the statutes are prescribed which they release and who they allow to be a guide in their area. Furthermore, this law corrects legal gaps. In fact, legal gaps have been established in the current practice of tourist inspectors, and the scope of supervision and unregistered activities has been expanded in order to facilitate the conduct of tourist inspectors. I would remind once again and say the Republic of Croatia is a well-known tourist country that wants to send a message to Europe and the world, and this law wants to send a message that accepts and implements the EU acquis. And as we want all our tourist guides who want to lead our citizens around Europe to be welcome in these countries. We must also be open, so that foreign citizens, accompanied by their guides, who visit our country, of course, with especially this legislation, can work and lead to specially protected localities. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will therefore support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52333	The next debate is on behalf of SDP's representative, Branko Grcic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard and now in this exposé of my colleague Branka Juričev that all the details of this law and all that he brings are essential. However, of course, yesterday's debate on the Committee on Tourism and Public Discussions also concerns still certain areas, and that is exactly what I would like to mention in my debate. So when it comes to solving this problem of organised travel, then we must make it clear that it is not as important for us to violate EU law as important to us to violate citizens' rights. So the citizens who arranged their arrangements out there before March last year still don't know their status. So they neither took advantage of this journey, nor can they use it because the crisis is still going on, and on the other hand they didn't get their money back. And it is quite logical and that provision, or rather, the EU's request, is quite logical to really solve their problem for the citizens. On the other hand, however, this is causing the problem of legal entities, so the tourist agencies that put them in a position, above all indifference, are the question of how they can even pay off these arrangements, i.e. the return of money to the citizens. Since it is a legal provision and some kind of obligation to resolve it conditionally, then it is expected from the state that brings such acts to take care of these economic operators who call tourist agencies here. We therefore certainly expect the government to do so in the best possible way. I'm afraid this credit-approval plan, and with even a 100% guarantee of HAMAG Bicro, may not be enough in all cases because we know how business banks react in this crisis, we know that people are hard to come by, so entrepreneurs are very difficult to come to finance through the banking system and simply the government has to do everything to make this second programme fully targeted and that these 30 or 36 million kunas really go directly to travel agencies to bridge this problem in which they will find themselves by adopting this Act. Here, I ask in that sense both you and the entire government to make this effort whether these subjects, that no one today, seems to me, has mentioned, but that possibility exists. So these entities have volunteered for part of the services to some new service providers in a series, in a chain, whether they wanted to, whether they were some other entities. They will surely have to ask for money back from them, but it will be a process. So it is a process that will take place in Croatian courts, perhaps some other courts, if it is about travel abroad. However, it is not excluded that at some point they will succeed in their intentions because it is nevertheless a business relationship that trade courts are likely to adequately resolve. It is, of course, necessary to consider whether it is possible to compensate for part of the funding from a state fund to be referred to agencies in that part. So that's what you should think about. Here, I'm going to stand there now, I think that this is the way, the only way to solve this problem, so what you would say is a wolf full and a sheep on the count, citizens above all satisfied that their status will be resolved, will receive a refund of money, or will finally solve any substitute travel, and agencies will be compensated for what they have to engage as liquid funds at this point in order to pay for that return. As far as this other key point is concerned, there's also yesterday at the debate, again on the board, I have to say, there's still a lot of questions about the status of tourist guides. What I have done in this entire debate as a single conclusion is that too much may be left to regulate by a rule. With everything we heard today from the secretary of state. So the regulation leaves to regulate the number of regions in which the business of tourist guides will take place and therefore again, I stress, re-test. So my question is, and later the secretary of state can explain this once again, will all the tourist guides who have already passed and paid the fees for passing certain exams throughout the county of the Republic of Croatia, will, after the adoption of such a rule, be required to re-sume the exam and will they pay the costs of passing those exams? It's no small thing. A large number of guides, a large number of exams, a large amount of money to be hired again. Here, I say, that's my rhetorical question, the secretary of state will probably explain it a little bit more. Of course, it remains and regulates this issue that has arisen, which basic qualifications must have someone to even enter into the qualification process for a tourist guide, which is a completed school, etc., etc. The Regulation should also define these sights, which are now 550, etc., etc. So there is really one rather large and open part of the issue and discretion in a certain way, the tourism ministry that adopts the regulation on the implementation of the provisions of this law. I will repeat and call all people once again because it is obvious that this law will be passed despite some abstention of part of the opposition, and that people who do not have registered facilities that rent for accommodation, who have registered all these facilities on various platforms, from Booking.com, Airb or some other platforms, will probably have to have a VAT identification number that will have to be entered in order to operate in HR as soon as possible. I think it's important, very clear, to invite citizens to do it as soon as possible because apparently there will be no other options, a hunt in a blurry one. By this law, therefore, I think, Art. 112a says how many punishments are imposed on all those who do not. There is a recurring situation, this repeated situation is being punished even more in monetary terms, therefore it should not be played. Why don't you play? So, simply, here's why I'm going to get hold of something that is once again the consequence of Covid, which is the fact that we had some weak last year, I would say measures to support a large number of private tenants who are over 110 thousand in Croatia. You remember, despite the bad tourist season, all these people had to pay 3/4 of their tax obligations. Whether they had guests, whether they had 30% of the guests compared to 2019 or had 90%. Few people had probably 100%. So they paid that tax. Why? The basic principle of the tax system of each is proportionality. So if you pay taxes you pay it proportionally to the income or profits you make. But if you haven't made any income, you can't pay taxes. That's the key, and don't let that mistake happen again this year. So people who don't rent and can't rent because the tourist season is bad can't pay taxes again I say according to the principle of proportionality. 15 or 20% profit or income is paid tax. You know that. But if income or profit is zero, then taxes are zero regardless of what he's prescribed on a flat-rate basis. And this support for or better said relief for tourist fees of 50% ok. Come on, there's another way we can chew on what we'd say. This year it was announced again. Okay. Yeah, it's okay. However, here on income tax, I don't think that there was a good approach last year, that people are very bitter about it and that this year needs to be different. I hope so much better season but you never know, surprises are always possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52335	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52336	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Yeah, we heard here everything that doesn't really need to be discussed at all. The liberalisation of the service market absolutely. Facilitating access to regulated professions, removing barriers to freedom of business created and providing services absolutely. No one reasonable has anything to do with it. Amendments to the law in the section relating to the regulated profession of the tourist guide also. Further harmonisation is necessary because of violations of EU law, and that is what we have heard. The Intangible Directive provides that tourist guides from one Member State can provide services in another Member State, establish a business establishment or in order to open a company or company in their own language. No one's got anything against it either. A tourist guide from another Member State who wishes to provide services on a temporary and occasional basis may provide them on protected sites if they pass a specific section of the expert examination. So far we have had a situation that our tourist guides have laid down that general, general part and then, of course, by county twenty-one. I am in contact with people who come from the profession, who said there is hardly even a tourist guide who passed a special exam for every county in Croatia because it really is a large number of localities, about the great knowledge that needs to be adopted, about the great money that needs to be invested and, of course, between the other and the great time that should be invested in this. But if we are already here and if we all agree that we will, we want to, and we need to adapt our legislation to the EU, let me still ask why, if we have said so now, we are going to introduce five regions. Great! Great! It'll be easier for people. That's a very clear fact. But had we not already been able to offer our tourist guides through our legislative framework to simplify their business functioning, i.e. passing exams. Perhaps this law or the introduction of regions could have been done many, many years ago. They'd cut people's expenses and all the time they'd put into it. Let us hear their voice for a moment. The community of Croatian tourist guides with several of their questions. Therefore, the status of citizens of non-European countries should be regulated, and there are no problems in my view to look at, or implement, Greek and Cypriot models in the approach to the education of tourist guides. What the esteemed Mr. Greek mentioned, I'll mention it one more time. We're going to say that protected units will be tested in regions. These regions we don't know here right now, we don't know what they're going to be, what they're going to be. There's one community proposal, but we don't see it in the bill for now. Again, we have regulations, again we have certain acts that have been removed from the Croatian Parliament's authority which I think is absolutely wrong. Tourist guides of Croatia have proposed very simple five regions that are imposed with very simple reason and thinking. So, the Dalmatian region, the Istrian-Primorje-Lika region, Central Croatia and Zagreb County, the Pannonian region and the Slavonian region. There must be no problem with that. Let us hear their voice again. Since the amendments to the law other than the harmonisation with European practice are also due to the degree of fragmentation of the examinations. A few points I want to point out on their behalf. Education. We have a concrete answer from the European Commission, I quote: "The educational issues are within the competence of Member States within the limits of non-discrimination, proportionality. Each Member State itself can legally condition access to a particular interest by possessing a certain professional qualification, and determine the level and type of necessary knowledge." As a point two, the current vulgarisation of education is also noticeable, creating a large number of tourist guides with a serious reduction of criteria that we should certainly pay particular attention to as a country that has a deep and extremely rich history of which we can freely say premise, up to ancient times and, of course, here and here, including values of the Homeland War with which all those who come in Croatia should also be familiar. Education in the Croatian language is another rather wrinkling topic of this law. Here we are if I am not mistaken to see that B2 level in law would be a violation of European directives. I suggest we discuss it further. Next time, mention the localities. Although it will be determined by the rules I repeat once again against it we are harsh. Elimination of the county lay-down system will surely lead to a significant reduction in the number of protected sites. It's clear to everyone. Not even a proposal for a locality by a profession that is much more restrictive than the existing one is obviously not to be respected, so let me say, as a member of a party that is conservative, when we look at all these facts, we can't get away with the impression that the argument imposed on us is the surrender of a part of state sovereignty, not to say a rude and a kind of culture. We are talking here about the way our country will introduce itself to millions of foreign guests, who will believe when this pandemic of covida 19 ends, and I sincerely hope that it will soon be coming to our country in large and larger and larger numbers. Despite the opinion of the profession, the Ministry of Culture and many conservatives are forced to remove valuable cultural heritage from the list of protected localities such as barbarians or primitives, after a thousand years of struggle for national self-loathing and the survival of the Croatian people. Let me remind you that we also need to regulate the rights of non-European citizens. That's where I'm going to connect a little bit, or I'm going to pull a link to the Foreign Law. This law abolishes tourist quotas, and a large number of foreign citizens will have the possibility of staying in the Republic of Croatia, and those who stay on our country's territory for five years and do not necessarily have to be employed in order to obtain conditions for obtaining residence. Apparently legally viewed by the Tourism Service Act, lex speciallis derrogated general law in this case the Foreigner Act. A similar approach is given by other European countries such as Cyprus and Malta that do not allow at all access to education for foreigners coming from non-European countries, especially in their case if they do not have Greek, or Cypriot origin. In any case, however, a fine example of respecting your heritage and safeguarding your national interest. In any case, adapt to regulation, i.e. all directives are not bad, and we will always welcome the freedom of the market and the right to a competition where it will win better, more educated and more capable. But without further ado, we must be aware that in Croatia, after the Covid 19 pandemic, there remain devastated tourist agencies which, as we have heard here in the debates, will have serious problems with withdrawing money with all the help and Hamag Bicro. States, banks remind me once again are not humanitarian institutions. Entrepreneurs in the sector will have serious liquidity problems. And, of course, the final description with the additional reduced number of sites I personally consider embarrassing for the European Commission. Unity in different ways should be encouraged. It is eventually one of the EU slogans. We must protect the interpretation of culture and history, both Croatian and all EU Member States, because it is the same in that truth and in that history that all the national corps of a country is in. Mostly from the corner of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, we can say that the law is quite inconsistencies, that it is subject to ex post repair through various regulations that no one in this respected House will even see, and we will obviously have to consult further with the profession and see how we will set up as the Home Movement when this law is voted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52337	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52338	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague Dretar who has actually transferred a lot of these remarks from the profession, i.e. tourist guides to this law. So this is another one in a series of laws that come to Parliament because it needs to be brought into line with EU directives that have been violated and the EU has warned us, Europe has warned us. So here are eight years after EU accession we have every few amendments to the laws that are not properly in line with the directives. The theme of these changes is I would say three points – travel with package arrangements related to special circumstances COvid 19. So how to treat these unfinished travel contracts. One is an item I don't know if anyone here mentioned the abuse of rent and car service, so rental vehicles from the service user for human trafficking purposes. And this third liberalisation of the service market relating to the tourist guide profession also works to align with EU directives which are, therefore, injured in that part. This is if we concentrate most on this last part, as I said here, I welcome this part that helps the tourism sector, the agencies to get these problems in terms of covid 19 and all these packages of arrangements and compensation to citizens, that through government programs of these things, programmes and guarantees in collaboration with HBOR and Hamag Bicro are resolved. So that's the part we say hello to. If we concentrate on this third part and on the profession of the tourist guide we heard here and in the presentation of the secretary, therefore some say the remarks of tourist guides are accepted, but a lot of these remarks remain I would say in the air or unresolved. We've heard enough here about this knowledge of language to a sufficient extent, that it's kind of unacceptable to write that way in law. On the other hand, the secretary justifies it if they already pass the Croatian language exam that then foreign citizens do not have to prove and have a B2 level, B2 language knowledge. Also on my question that the final proposal to delete that article, we saw, so I checked in Article 26 really in the transitional provisions, so those who have previously passed exams in the county will retain those acquired rights. What is problematic, we actually welcome the introduction of regions, but those in the law, the regions are not defined, so in this sense we heard from the secretary that or a working group of 39 members who will then make some kind of regulation that will determine which regions they are, will be defined. And in that sense, we have also submitted several amendments that will help you to skip that 39-member task force. Let's define these regions according to this proposal as well as tourist guides, here's how we heard here from fellow Dretar. The five regions of Dalmatian, Istrian-Primorje-Lika, central Croatia, Zagreb's macro region, the Pannonian region and the Slavonian region and the counties that are included in each region. So here we propose amendments that could very quickly and simply define it in the law itself. When we talk about the requirements of trade guides, so what they had in mind is actually quality education. If we put ourselves in some frames and look at Croatia in the pre-covid period, Croatia visited about 18 million foreign tourists annually. This site is visited by a few million tourists who may need tourist guide services. What may be less known is that tourist guides work most out of season, in advance and post season. In the middle of the summer, is what is the hottest part of me saying in the middle of the season, tourists who visit us are mostly there because of the sun and the sea, is a little bit actually visiting historical sights and seeking the services of tourist guides. Those looking for tourist guides are guests from cruisers, individuals, most Americans, Asians and British. And what's the most recent hit I'm saying is we're still talking about the time before the covid, but here's hoping we're going back slowly at that time. It's that tourists seek the most to get to know the local way of life. So today in the age of modern technologies of some historical sights, historical sites can also see him line and learn all about them. And tourist services, tourist guide services in these localities may not require that much. What they are most interested in is meeting the local population, seeing how they live and work, how I don't know the products, see the parts of the country where life is so said stopped. Meet people at home, see how I don't know how sheep grow, make milk, make cheese, etc. So these tourist guides when they talked about quality education and all these remarks they made on language learning and on the four-year high school they were looking for. So I simply support their demands, and they went in terms of maintaining one quality of our cultural heritage, is it really our way of living to guests and tourists, though we certainly support this liberalisation but we also think of the quality of the presentation of everything that is worth in our country, what we want to offer to our tourists and guests. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52339	The following are individual debates. The first is the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52340	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the provision of tourism services in the second reading has already caused a lack of debate in the first reading, and then it took a little longer and longer, but surely because we care about how we think it is best. I've got two doubts coming up here about a few questions he's dealing with. The only question is whether we want something or not. It means whether we can solve the issue of the tourist agency and the voucher under the law so far, so we don't need to change anything. Or we have to prescribe something here, so that as much as we make it easier to get what was taken back the way that was best and possible. So that's the basic question. Does this law make it possible? I think that, regardless of the problems faced by the tourism sector, especially in that part of the tourist agencies, he was not to blame. It wasn't his fault, but here's the pandemic guy. Everything that's happened in the past year and several months and this law offers a solution and I look at it like that. Is it the most righteous, the best, the most perfect I can't evaluate? It will show time ahead of us and the application of the law that we will vote on. I think that both the ministry and the government have certainly stepped behind the tourism sector and that it is the biggest beneficiary of all these 12 billion, let's say the funds in the past little more than 12 months of subsidies or state aid. It means keeping places in the tourist sector. It's not small, it's almost a billion a month and it's tourism I think prices and tourist workers and tourist houses. I believe that these tourist agencies will also find a way to stay and function in a way that is possible. Whether these loans will be enough, whether I will survive, is that what I can't know about all 2,000 of them are covered by this problem and whether these 30 million unrequited unrequited problems that we can't solve. That's my question whether or not we will. It's the same thing with tourist guides. Are we going to take an extra step, try to protect what is important to us from our history and allow that through a particular schooling or an additional certificate, or what will already be solutions we allow to have tourist guides who will be able to tell on these sites the best things that this locality offers or means. Or we will leave it to this time as it is and that any tourist guide can continue to do his job without any problems. Now whether he has a mark or not, whether he has that solution or not, there's probably a system that can control it. I think the inspections here can find their share of some activity. As far as the third problem is concerned, that VAT is the identification number. Now I don't know if he applies to all the little tenants here, if I understand correctly. No, just legal and physical craftsmen. All right, even though I think the small tenants were also bonds, I know personally because it takes ten minutes to visit a tax administration and here I see a job for tourist communities, to inform them and say you have to do it. So that story isn't special. You get one of your numbers and you're in the system and you know when you're doing business through an agency, especially Booking is the strongest now. Just so you know who's doing what on that market. Because we live in the time of the uncertain tourist season as it is. She's better now, she's better. In the pre-season we have better indices, especially the time this end of the fifth month, the beginning of the sixth month which was something different than last year the indices are multiplely higher than last year. Here I was just looking for my community index is about ten percent higher on today which is not equal in the holiday season of the Ghosts last year, but apparently this season will reach some especially in the season, the peak season thirty percent better than last year's results. We won't be at the level of 2019. But I think it'll still be better than 2020. That's what our citizens expect, and I don't think a VAT number will be much of a problem. But the ministry also assigned a job to put together a register, and it'll probably work. Without this law, we'll be out of autumn, so there are no big doubts. The story of tourism is, I say broad, and I think this law contributes to something that it wants to solve. Is it best to show time in front of us, but to edit additional areas for which we have now noticed that they have not solved some problems I think it is and therefore I will support this law, I say without some doubt which leaves in terms of application. But the Ministry is here to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52341	We've got a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52342	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, in your debate, you have listed important and concrete things that will contribute to these amendments and amendments to the law. However, I would like to point out one more thing that I consider to be extremely good, which is that the list of protected units, i.e. localities, will be added to the localities of the Homeland War. That their tourist role is justified I can testify myself thanks to the Vukovar Water Tower, which was renovated thanks to the donations of the government of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, since its opening at the end of last year already in three months over 15,000 citizens visited it. But he was also recognized beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia because he became a member of the World Large Towers Organisation where only 49 of them are like the Eiffel Tower or the Tower of Dubai. This year, more than three million kunas of income are foreseen, and I believe that this legal extra power will make him as much alive as others in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52343	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52344	Thank you very much, Comrade Mazhar. Well, I personally mean to say, I know a lot of my guides, tourist guides from the island of Rab, and I know that they are on Rab what is the highlight. It means when someone takes you on that island that they'll tell you the best stories and history of that island. If I can do that in Vukovar on one level, I'm sure I can. Whether they are now allowed by this law to, with further education and through a particular solution or certificate that will get them to do so and there in the best way, it is up to them to decide their own will. But surely there are people in your area who could do it much better than those who will come here occasionally or once and tell a story in their own way. That's why I see this law positive regardless of some of the obligations it makes us. And if it says here that those who have acquired certain solutions continue to do their job in those solutions as they had, whether they want to be educated or not. That's where I see the part I'm asking myself whether or not we're going to. I think we want what we can order through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52345	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52346	Your Honor, when you pointed out the amount of funds this government has invested in preserving jobs in the tourism sector, I believe this is not about any special goodwill or mercy of this government to save tourism as an economic branch. Given the share of tourism in our economy by saving tourism, we're all actually saving ourselves. In the debate on this law, both in the first and second readings, the opposition was quite constructive. You yourself said you had certain doubts. We have them and we do not aim to fight and fight but really tourism as a branch is extremely important and it is important that the law is such that it is safe, reliable, predictable, that all stakeholders involved in tourism do not have to expect the first next change in a period less than a year because we will not create a stable, reliable system and you will agree with me this is the first and basic condition of a successful economy and so on in this sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52347	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52348	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, colleague Oreshkovic. I think the government made a great deal of effort, in my opinion, the biggest effort that was possible. I don't think we remember him for any period of this country over the last 30 Dons and that 12 billion kunas placed in the private sector to keep jobs is not a story to be diminished because these are the money that is down to people who have been employees primarily in catering and tourism, and then other service activities, and then we have a part that still doesn't work that's evants and all the other branches that follow tourism, so we have road transport that's obviously the same thing about tourism, there's problems. And say it's some kind of mercy. I don't think it's mercy, but it was a move that allowed what they said in the opposition to happen that we would have 400,000 new unemployed, that we would deal with ourselves and that we wouldn't ensure the normal course or functioning of this country, these differences were visible and at the local elections. [[Intruder: Time.]] 0.9% in Zagreb, colleague Oreshković It's not to be commended. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52349	Next replica, the esteemed representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have noticed really one phenomenon, which is one need to sign up and small tenants in some way with some type of page ID if they are advertised across the platform. It is very small tenants who do most of the traffic violations and you have well noticed we must protect ourselves for those who pay their obligations neatly and who, which contribute to the development of tourism and increase, increase the numbers in tourist transport. I'll just point out one situation in favor of what you've said, we've had a process of legalizing illegal objects where on our coast a lot of foreigners have legalized their facilities and we have a phenomenon that this site via their agencies in their countries where they otherwise have a place to advertise and sell their facilities without ID numbers. And we come up with these problems where they take absolutely our citizens' traffic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52351	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52352	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Kliman that in this area, where small tenants act, we are talking about almost 500,000 accommodation units on the coast is something that we still need to solve further, and given the competition that is emerging. It appears in a way that we have these tenants who come from other countries, who are temporary residents in certain municipalities and towns on the coast, who deal with this activity in their own way, are often outside of all systems and the communal system that serves them and, of course, it is the job of those closest to them. These are the commissioners, the tourist communities to recognize such ones, and then to move further from the level of the ministry to make a commitment. I think that I.D.V. number was an obligation before, because I know we're a notice from the tourist community that we all have to take them out if we're working with certain agencies on the outside. And those who want to make, those who won't stay out of it, but it's the state that controls and says it through their bodies. There are penalties for this, and I think this law contributes to resolving this issue too. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52353	The next individual debate is a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52354	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I regret to point out that unlike my first reading, when I was pleasantly surprised by the level of respect for the various proposals and remarks coming from the entire assembly, this in the second reading suddenly disappeared. Perhaps it is a secret that the first reading was ahead of local elections and the second reading after local elections. So while it was important in some extremely relevant Croatian tourist cities not to draw on myself not to say anger but to the great dissatisfaction of a number of tourist guides until then, the HDZ's views mainly of these amendments to the law seemed clearly critical, they expressed support for guide associations in their remarks on such amendments to the law. Therefore, while agreeing with the comments of the community of tourist guides, colleagues pointed out, for example, the need for the fragmented section of the expert exam to five regions not to two, a clear definition of the level of knowledge of Croatian language and the definition of a minimum four-year secondary school as one of the criteria for access to the examination of the tourist guide. Now that the election is over, the new mandates are secured, now it's obviously not important anymore. Let's remember a little bit what the HDZ colleagues said through exposure, which through replicas, especially fellow Frankovic, whom I am extremely sorry isn't here today. I quote on behalf of the HDZ Club, my colleague Frankovic said, as the guide on the other hand, although I believe that this part of the law should be changed and adapted to the EU regulations, I believe that the proposed part of the law relating to guides is not well worked out, I believe that it is important to highlight such tourist guides as the Croatian brand, what I particularly want to note is the fact that the European Commission has made clear about the educational segment of guides that educated issues are in the competence of the Member States. In Greece, for example, education for a tourist guide lasts for 3 years, Malta's education lasts 2 to 3 years depending on the pace of laying, Lithuania 2, Hungary and Cyprus for 1 year. So, a colleague says, if the Ministry of Tourism respects these proposals, we will respect all the required regulations of the European Commission, but at the same time recognise the authenticity of local guides. I believe and hope that this proposal will be included in the second reading, and if it is not for me, I can announce today that I will submit the amendment in accordance with the previous sentence. In the final presentation, also on behalf of the club colleague Frankovic speaks, I call on the Ministry of Tourism to include proposals in the second reading as I have previously stated, of course not limiting any EU citizen to come to the Republic of Croatia, to pass in one of the 5 regions of exams or in all 5 regions to pass exams and do business just as our guides can in the EU. In the replica Mr. Bulj, also colleague Frankovic speaks, Mr. Bulj so this is the first reading of this law so if you listened to my debate you could hear a constructive proposal in which we will protect the tourist guides in two steps, defining 5 regions first step, second step level language level B2 and thus protect guides. Mr. Cappelli mentioned in his presentation, as far as the guide is concerned, I think Mr. Frankovic said the position of the HDZ Club, we will stand by that position, which is B2 language, 5 regions and four-year secondary education. Yesterday, however, at a meeting of the Tourism Committee, and today we had the opportunity to hear that the regions mentioned in the bill's amendment had not been clearly defined because the ministry had not yet decided whether it would be only 5 or 2. It was left to discuss some kind of heterogeneous group of 40 members. Part of this group is also people from the ministry and people from the tourist guide associations who, based on all this information, wanted these 5 regions, so I'm curious who in this group heterogeneously specifically asked them to be 2 regions, not 5? Defining the level of knowledge of Croatian language we have heard that it is not the subject of this law or the level of high school. Eat the donkey wolf. Election promises have remained election gibberish again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52355	Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52356	I will repeat in this law what I very often point out, which is what the rules serve as some kind of implementing act of a certain law. The idea is that rules are passed much simpler, faster, more operational, it solves somewhat less important, less significant technical issues so that the parliamentary procedure is not burdened with unnecessary legislative interventions. So, on the one hand, it sends a bad message to those to whom the law applies, a little rocking legal security, and it actually trivialises the work of such an important home. However, what happens in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. We instead of dealing with these less important things that are life-threatening with more frequent changes, so that rules are dealt with by us by the rules, because the Government through its respective ministries, through its parliamentary majority, has no courage here in the Croatian Parliament to address us as representatives, primarily opposition, but also to the entire Croatian public and to say what is pressuring them from what they are fleeing from. In this particular case, these are the famous regions. So, there is almost no topic that can be discussed without necessarily calling back the question of when Croatia will finally give up 20 counties and form the 5 logical units that are needed by the economy, citizens, whoever you want contrary to the interest of HDZ who needs its counties and belonging to the chair and the posts in them. And in addition to what my predecessor from the SDP has said, everything I sign, the key problem of this law is precisely in that part of what is not known, it is not known that the boundaries of the regions will be defined by which tourist guides will take their exams. And then I ask you, given that the minister has, for example, asked two questions, that in the transitional and final provisions are defined among other things, and that those who have passed a certain part of the expert exam either in that general or in particular section for one of the 20 counties in which their already passed examination will be recognised in the context of newly formed regions for which we do not know at this time how they will be defined and where their borders will be recognised. And I'm asking you where is legal security? So, this parliament, the Croatian Parliament as a representative body of citizens, as the holder of a single important branch of government, is unable to comply with one elemental constitutional principle, which is legal certainty stemming from the rules that are being adopted. It is unable to ensure that acquired rights are respected in practice. And I'm asking you now, given that it is one of the key if not perhaps the most important economic sector because it carries how much, almost 1/5 of the Croatian economy, what kind of message we send to those who want to work in this sector, to do it, and to actually fill the Croatian budget. It is certainly not the last law that we will discuss in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament where we will re-engage on one of the same issues, who, which all falls within the territory of one economic and historical or any other way you want defined wholes or so on. The regions and when finally one of the rulings will have the courage to open the issue at all, let alone in the implementation of such a thing, or perhaps wait for the mandate or the obligation to launch such a debate to come from the EU, but more or less everything we read in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament stems from the fact that, in one way or another, we have received a specific instruction or a package from the EU for a poorly served legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52357	There's a replica, a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52358	Thank you. My colleagues, I'd like to ask you something like a lawyer. Therefore, the unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament in Article 17(4) states that it is not allowed to establish the authorisation under which a lower sublaw act, as the regulation, would prescribe the conditions for carrying out certain activities because it can only be the content of the law. The Regulation defining protected localities defines the conditions for carrying out the activities, since they must also be subject to expert examinations. Please tell me as a lawyer how it's possible that this will end up in a rulebook instead of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52359	Well, as a lawyer, I can tell you that this is a reason to press charges for violation of one of the constitutional rights, but as a parliamentary representative, I can tell you that this Croatian Parliament has long lost its key legislative role. Well, now I can't count how many times I've said for this Househouse that we've gone to one extremely dangerous, but really dangerous practice. Here I will remember, for example, the Rehabilitation Act, and here we have made a monstrous example, so I say with all due respect to the opposition I appreciate, but I resent that you have passed such a law so much as the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund and other earthquakes of damaged areas are the only funds established under the contract, not the law. All others are formed under the law. So we began to avoid laws as a means to address key issues. It is a very difficult, corrupt practice carried out by the Croatian Parliament and his parliamentary majority. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52360	On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Honorable Tonchi Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52361	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank all of you once again for the content debate today, at proposals, comments, and as every time we use the opportunity to propose legislation in the assembly to take advantage of every good and quality proposal and I believe that we have done so between these two readings in the Croatian Parliament and I believe that we have proven through this law, but even before the Ministry of Tourism really takes the most seriously into consideration each proposal, and here we have proved concretely with the previous set of laws, the whole reform we have been carrying out for the past 2 years, but here and now with this, but some solutions that have been proposed and in this final proposal or final reading simply cannot be accepted because it is just the part that we are changing these laws, and these are infringements of European acquis or European directives that we implement and transpose into our law. I'm just going to brief myself in the final presentation on a few things that have remained open here conditionally, and I think we've all stayed very quality and covered so far. So, regarding the presentation of Mr. Matula and the erasure of Article 38a, it remained somehow from your open question why we had it in the first place, in which way and that it is logical to change it now, etc., you see that it was introduced into the law, so this Article 38a. and this should have been done at the time of the start of the global pandemic when it was certain that if we did not take some very concrete step to protect the tourist agencies that they would very quickly in a very short period of time become insolvent, inequitable and as a result that they would therefore be their likely bankruptcy. And that's something we're not the only ones who recognize, that's something that's been recognized at the level of all Europe. And why is that? Therefore, travel agencies, when receiving advance payments for certain tourist arrangements, which must generally be realised, are always the most important part of these funds, must currently be distributed further. So, if you have a group of, say, 100 persons travelling in one complex tourist product, an arrangement that includes both guides and some kind of attraction and bus and hotel operators and some other technical services that support this trip in order to book it together, book it, etc., you have to pay a part of the funds in advance as well as the carrier and the guide and the hotel and attractions, and I don't know any other service in which you are still participating, and they are the ones who paid the most because they received money from the guests at different addresses, among other things they passed on to addresses in Croatia but also outside Croatia. So the agencies that organize out-of-going and it was at that point created this one bubble of liquidity to say so and we legally reacted at that moment just to protect them that they had to return those funds to customers even though those funds weren't in their accounts. So, in a certain way, it took to create a certain space of time so that this whole expensive thing could be regulated and that the financial flows could come into some kind of normal track, and that's why it's changed. And, but you are in this part of the right in which you explained that it is therefore a violation of consumer rights and of course it is one of the basic postulates of the EU and the commission reacted not only to the Republic but if I am not mistaken there were 13 countries that we had so similar. And these were all strong tourist countries as Croatia did. And now we've corrected that part, but I think in the context of everything that's been going on in the last year that we've reacted in the best possible way possible because we're still doing this together right now at a time when some regular tourist flows have started to happen, when we have some kind of announcements of a quality tourist season, so inflows, etc. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken certain moves and unprecedented measures, primarily in the part of protecting the preservation of jobs that are still in place today and for all tourist agencies because unfortunately they are one of the most threatened and have had this average, according to information we have from professional associations, had a decline in traffic in these years and some days between 80 and 90%, which is really serious. So, with these measures, with the measures of course and the state support programme practically launched in March and, of course, this decision programme, the decision to support the small values that were now being proposed yesterday and are an integral part of the rebalancing of the Croatian budget, so we did everything to protect them. As regards the comments of the esteemed Greek representative on the guides and possibly re-charging the exams or acquired rights which they have already explained in one of their replicas, but to be more accurate and more content, here is, therefore, a brief reading of the parts of Articles 26 and 27 which are mentioned in these amendments, which are transitional and final provisions and the part relating therefore to the specific and general part. So it says this Article 26, persons who are subject to the rules laid down in Article 71(6) until the date of entry into force of this Regulation. The tourism service law lays down the general section of the expert examination, i.e. the specific part of the expert examination for tourist guides for individual counties, and has not resulted in the solution set out in Article 73. The laws on the provision of services in tourism retain the rights acquired by passing the examinations after the entry into force of the Regulation referred to in Article 71(6). The law on the provision of services in tourism. So that's the part that's related that didn't come up with a solution. The persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article who are subject to a general section of the expert examination may then come up with a solution to meet the conditions for providing tourist guide services in accordance with Article 73. The law on the provision of services in tourism for the Republic of Croatia, except for in or in protected areas, of localities for which persons are subject and a specific part of the expert examination for protected localities, may result in a solution to meet the conditions for the provision of services to or protected localities in accordance with the specific section of the expert examination and, in principle, the most important part, so no. 3. "The persons who have come into force in this law have come to the conclusion on the fulfilment of the conditions for providing tourist guide services in accordance with the provisions of the Tourism Act for the general part of the expert examination may continue to perform the services of the tourist guide in accordance with that solution for the entire Republic of Croatia, except or on protected units, and they have a specific section of the expert examination, and we can provide services to or in protected localities in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the resulting solution for the county for which the expert examination has been passed." Therefore, we have very clearly defined this in this section of the law, and we will also further define these rules that define both tourist units between the others and the localities where we define these things that are further discussed in the law and change therefore, depending on how the area of the region is to be defined. The difference in exams, so we have absolutely no problems here and all of our tourist guides can be sure that what they have education for which they have that part of power will continue to benefit. Also related to the comments of fellow Greeks regarding the tourist tax, for private renters in the light of the circumstances, so here we have today published among others on the Ministry's website, so the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has made a re-amendment of three regulations that define among other things the flat-rate payment of tourist tax and tourist membership fees and again this year we are for renters and service providers in the rural household and the OPG etc. Defined, reduced by half their amount of payment of tourist tax, tourist membership fees. And why is that? Because they're paying for it at the cobwebs, and it's likely they won't have a tourist year or season like they did in 2019. In this way, we believe that if we look at statistics from last year, private owners in the Republic of Croatia have had an average of over 50% capacity-fulfillment, so last year, this first crisis in 2020, and we hope and expect this year that they will have a lot more than that, but in any case, we have protected them and made sure that they only have to pay half of that flat-rate amount because we believe that they are flat-out and it's just the right time that they need help at this point. As far as the region is concerned, I believe it was the comments of Dretar MPs, Mrs Puljak, so in law we used the word of the region on purpose, and we did not define in the law what exactly a specific region is because we left the decision to the expert working group because we have several different proposals. But what's content here and what we've already explained, it's like these two models, one where we do it in NUC regions, and the other is that we do it in Croatian historical regions. I think it's very wise that we did it that way and that it's defined between other regulations here, let's say, as you can see now that we've had changes in the structural and method of defining the NUC region, so one was two or three years ago, it's a different structure today for certain reasons. So can today and tomorrow something changes again, and then we have a lower legal act, so by regulation we define it quickly and efficiently. And we believe that the decision on what best approach is to leave the expert working group made up of the most competent persons, so our experts from higher education schools, educational institutions, of course lawyers, and our tourist guides. As far as the comments made by Boric regarding the tax number of VAT Ids are concerned, yes, we are thinking of private tenants here and agree very well with our colleague, so he knows very well how to extract the tax number for a private tenant in the Republic of Croatia is an extremely simple step to be made, and this is an extremely necessary way to stop this black and grey economy because we must prevent the possibility of us being among other things, and this is also mentioned by Agent Kleman that we are not paying for objects on portals that are made for a large amount of tourist capacity sales in Croatia such as Booking.com or similar to those in which objects that are not registered, which are not categorized, which do not pay absolutely any giving to the Republic of Croatia, which do not pay any kind of self-government to local self-government, which has a certain cost of maintaining infrastructure, of course, and the entire tourist infrastructure in the city, which is located in the city. So in this sense we're very clearly focused here on preventing that part with this way of defining it in this law here we're more focused on these rental portals that they have the obligation to publish that number. And I'll do it again, I said it in the opening part, for our private tenants we've already defined in the Household Activity Act about a year and a half ago, so they already have an obligation. And logically, it is also our ultimate goal that these foreign search engines should not have facilities where no tax number has been published because it simply means that they are not categorized objects, but they are objects that work on black and thus facilitate our inspections, the State Inspectorate, but also TZ to detect these objects very quickly and efficiently, etc. and send a very quick inspection to solve this problem. And even to the very end, Glamuzina's representative on this issue that you only had, so the conditions you mentioned were education, professionally preparing high school education among other professional exams and languages, so these are the conditions. That's it, thank you for the content debate until the next meeting, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52362	We have several replicas, the first respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52363	So here I am going to ask you again about the regions, so you said it was better to leave a decision on what kind of region to one expert working group. When you list who is in this professional working group, you said tourist guides, so here are the tourist guides who have already proposed which regions would be, so the five historical regions, so let's save time and if we pass the law now, we'll rule out who knows when to bring it and then we'll be late again in its application, so here's the deal we've proposed some amendments. So here's the chance to accept that amendment, so one of the professional, part of the other sections of the expert group came? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52364	Thank you, we will look at and consider your proposal, but this I agree that at any given time, in any case, we should allow us to have a professional quality debate on this issue. At the level of the profession it will happen in our professional working group, if this is the conclusion of the expert working group that these are regions in principle as presented by our tourist guides, we will have absolutely nothing against, but we must, however, make one quality content debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52365	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52366	Dear Secretary of State, so Article 31 of the proposed law says, this law is in force first, so on the first day not on the eighth day, the first day of publication in the National Journal, and most importantly, we will define who knows when. So, to be clear, I support the greater role of experts and expert groups in the creation of our laws and so on in defining the regions, but there was absolutely no obstacle for you to carry out, for example, between two readings, and to install their results in the provisions of this law, because the situation when the law enters into force and nothing is resolved by it is not the situation that the Croatian Parliament should agree to. It's my biggest grudge to the law that's in the process now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52367	I thank you for your comment, the reason why the law enters into force so practically immediately on the first day is precisely because of the first part of the problem of this law, which is the part that concerns consumer protection because in that part it is important, of course, for the protection of consumers and the directive to come into force as soon as possible. And as for the second part, we are otherwise the part that defines the rules in the context of this law relating to tourist guides, so it was always something that was defined by sublegal acts, so also protected localities and the part that relates to education. And so far, we have absolutely never had a problem of any kind and any complaint from some of the stakeholders in tourism about that something similar should be in the law, because these are things that can potentially change that can come to a critical debate to fix something for the better, etc., and of course if we leave it for the law or if it's in the law then it's much harder and more complex and longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52368	Next, the last replica, the esteemed representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52369	Thank you. I would just like to ask you, to clarify, I think it is clear that one of the regulations that motivated these amendments is a regulation on the recognition of professional qualifications in terms of removing obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, it is clear that we do not have too many choices, especially with the sequence of the suit, etc., we must or do not want to, but in principle the only protection that remains available to us in terms of our domestic guides these localities which are equally difficult to negotiate these regions. Now I'm really interested in what I asked in the debate, if the guides are for those five historical regions, if the ministry doesn't mind, who in that heterogeneous group is it bothering? The NUC region you said yourself that they change not too often, but they change, the historical regions will change a little harder, I think they're easier to rely on than the NUC.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52370	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52371	Yeah, thanks for the comment and the question. I say I do not prejudge at all what the decision will be, there will be a decision at the level of this expert working group on the basis of this debate, but these rules are, of course, also an integral part of the law and legal regulation, and it all goes together in the procedure and, of course, the Commission may have comments, therefore, that they are or are not in line with the directive and the acquis, so, yes, but I say we do not prejudge, we will do what the expert working group considers to be the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-10-0.u52372	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've had a full discussion with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow at 9:30, final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Island Act, second reading, bill number 87. Session adjourned at 17.55 p.m.
