ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27221	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In order to increase citizens' awareness of the existence of a problem of peer violence in our country, the last Wednesday of February marks Pink T-shirts Day. In 2017, the Croatian Parliament declared the National Day of Fight against peer violence. This day has also been recognized by our schools that have traditionally marked it with their appropriate educational programs for years. The celebration of Pink T-shirts began in Canada in support of a boy who suffered peer violence at school only because he was dressed in a pink shirt. His pink shirt symbolized the support of a severely ill mother. With the pink color that we are pointing out today, we are sending a message of solidarity with all victims of peer violence, and we are also telling all young people that there is absolutely nothing positive about violent behavior. As in other European countries, as in Croatia, there is a continuing increase in age - violence cases and one of the more problematic aspects of this worrying phenomenon is certainly also a cyberbullying and violence on the internet that schools and other educational institutions, such as dormitories, can be difficult to control. To prevent peer violence, education is necessary at all social levels. It must be conducted in a family environment and in educational institutions, I believe that parents, together with teachers and teachers, should build and affirm a form of positive examples of desirable social behavior, together with the assistance of professional non-school staff. Unfortunately, our children are exposed to an excessive amount of verbal violence through media and social networks. Because of the lack of a corrective mechanism on these platforms, young people adopt such content as an example to be imitated in everyday life. That is why I think it is important to include representatives of different media in the joint face-to-face with the problem of peer active. This year's Pink T-shirts Day is an exceptional opportunity to launch an open intergenerational dialogue on the prevention of peer violence, but also to remind adults once again that violent behavior has deeply affected all the pores of our society. The terrible cases of sexual harassment and intimidation of students in Zagreb's universities are only a small part of this mosaic. If we don't go into the lighting of these crimes and institutional sanctioning of their perpetrators, I'm afraid that our society is ultimately followed by a totally moral disintegration. So once again I take the opportunity to send the following messages from this place, we must not keep our mouth shut about violence. Our society must be a society of zero tolerance to any form of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27262	We are going to the 13th debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27263	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2017, respected colleagues and colleagues, somewhere in the September representative Ivan Pernar in this hall wore a T-shirt on which HDZ thieves wrote the score of the ball and believed or not I reacted and asked the chairman to warn him and to remove something that offends the members of that party, no matter how justified or unfounded. So when you're talking about the Rules of Procedure, your chairman Mr. Reiner said that, let's just let it go. Maybe it's best if we just ignore it or let it go. So, it gives me the right to, given that I defended you when no one was defending you, and given that whenever I estimate, my extensive radar estimates that this is about discrimination, insult and inappropriate speech here in the assembly, regardless of who it refers to, I will react. And that gives me the right and not to defend you when you didn't deserve to defend you. So, in the case of the river cafe Three Monkeys, for several days now, the Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ have been spending so-called the entire nation. Monkeys challenges and tries to convince us of something that doesn't stand. So what happened in Rijeka is neither hate speech nor discrimination, but it's only about the fierce criticism of the current government and its policy at the time of the pandemic, especially towards the caterers. We can discuss whether it's delicious, is it, is it reasoned, but none of what you said is in what the gentleman did. Art. 125. The penal law says among other things "who, on the basis of the differences in political conviction, restricts or conditions other rights to receive services, will be punished by a prison sentence of 3 g." Did that happen in the river? It's not. So it can be a criminal offence, but that's not the point. The man said someone wasn't welcome, it's quite so embarrassing, and I have to admit that I wouldn't like to find myself in a situation where my colleagues from HDZ found themselves, but all I'd say is that it's not right and it wouldn't go on. Therefore, my view is that dissatisfaction is expressed by a political option in the elections. We don't want to humiliate you, we don't want to discriminate, we want to beat you in the election. Sometimes it doesn't work. As for what Index did, did we people, as it goes, that joke "people are not Brothers", remember that joke? Yeah. It's not exactly what you said about dehumanization. So it's again this criticism of the government, strong, rough, maybe untasteful, but not to the level that the Prime Minister has trolled us for several days with his monkey leadership and this is causing us to react. But let's remember, 2017. At 6 months, Pedja Grbin, Bojan Glavasevic and I went to Bogovic's street in the city center and invited citizens to come and criticize us and insult us because politicians must endure criticism and insult. And it would be good to repeat that if the prime minister also joined us, we could join in Rijeka, and we could do so in Zagreb, it's not a problem. And I can freely call that performance "Four Monkeys". You who are in power, and we who are in opposition must be able to endure criticism, we must be able to endure insult and only react in exceptional situations, first by asking for an apology and then by threatening to sue when there are no more other instruments. Therefore, with the invitation to calm down passions in none of these cases, I do not recognise anything that would require a reaction from the rule of law, but if you wish to adequately respond to discrimination on Friday, at 2 o'clock in the Jewish community again, that meeting on the ban on greetings that have racist and other connotations, so show it in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27264	We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one's a respected colleague, Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27265	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure demeaning HDZ representatives. Comrade Bauk, we are not asking you to defend us, neither you nor the SDP. We're just saying, and that's what Capulica said now, that we expect all democratic parties, all the people in Croatia to condemn hate speech, especially when that speech is very close. And... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It touches racism and that's what HDZ expects [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to be defended by the SDP, God forbid. [[Intruder: Thank you very much colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27266	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Capula here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27267	Same article. So it's amazing after I've said very explicitly what I think about criticism and the need to suffer any kind of criticism that you're returning this whole debate to the context of democratic criticism. That, I don't know, wasn't once the politics of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, obviously something changed and that the Social Democratic Party of Croatia remained, became Very insensitive for cases like this [[Intruder: Thank you]] for violation of human dignity, human rights, freedom [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Capula]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27268	Here's my colleague, Bauk, in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27269	I appreciate it when I have to call on 238. Comrade Bačić, you've really hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna defend people and don't make me treat HDZ people like people, so I don't defend them when I have to. Everything, everyone deserves to defend them against discrimination, to defend them against insults, to defend them against every form of abuse, but from what you should not be defended because this is neither, nor any of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27270	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, please, this has been a replication of all 3, but the topic is so sensitive that I didn't want to give anyone any notices and I urge you once again to level the criteria because here in the assembly some think that they can talk about others without sanctions and the ugliest and most offensive things, and then when that happens, they call for help and seek protection. So I think that the criteria for everything must be equal, let's avoid insultingly, uglyly, discriminatoryly speaking about others because if that road opens, it's a path without going back, and I don't want to be on it and live on it. We are going to the 3rd debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, will speak to the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27331	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed president of HS, the Croatian government recently took measures to help Croatian entrepreneurs, especially those who work in catering, so that every employee in the catering gets 4 thousand kunas, regardless of radio or radio, and it seems so generous, however, no one has asked where that money comes from. That money comes right from Croatian entrepreneurs. So the government of the Republic of Croatia did not give anything to Croatian entrepreneurs, gave nothing to Croatian hosts, but only to return what is theirs. And as for the burden of the crisis, the key question is whether we are all carrying the same weight of this crown of crisis, this one global pandemic, the answer is clear, of course we are not carrying the burden equally. In Croatia, there is one caste of 15 000; it is made up of about 15,000 people who have salaries of 15 000 kuna and more. Do you have any idea how much the downturn in that caste was? Not one lip. Do you know how late the salaries were for the people who belonged to that caste? Not for an hour. And what you all know, too, is that all these people are usually tied to the ruling structures, or to the ruling furniture. So, on the one hand, we have a government performance where the government in one such generous way returns their money to entrepreneurs saying that it gives them something, and on the other hand, the burden of the crisis won't feel a bit like those who should also, and these are all those who have very good syncure and who are financed from the state budget. When I talk about the Croatian economy, one topic has somehow passed under the radar, and it is very important to mention, and it is about Croatian sugars. Here, two more sugars have recently been closed, Virovitica, viritative and ossuary sugars and Croatia remains only on one sugarcane of Sladora County and the question is what tomorrow will be when and if that sugarcane fails, which will be with Croatian sugar producers or whether we will have this basic production of basic food in Croatia at all. What about the price of sugar? And could sugars in Croatia be helped in a way that helped shipyards? Is there an interest in Croatia to preserve this one production of a basic food such as sugar or are we simply going to leave it to the verse as ever? I believe and responsibly claim that Croatia had to preserve sugar production in every way possible. However, I must stress, this is not only a Croatian problem, this is the EU's problem, in the EU as many as 89 sugarcanes have been closed recently and yet, here it is, no matter what, some sugarcanes are working. But these are not sugars from smaller countries like Croatia, but from those global players, so we know what players we're talking about. And I'm asking what A. Plenkovic did when he met with his colleagues in the EU, so in the European Council, did he tell them anything about the problem of the injustice of countries like Croatia, which are? I simply cannot fight in an adequate way against unfair competition coming from some EU countries. Anyway, all those who haven't bought sugar from a viritative sugar shop, let them do it these days because they'll never have a chance to buy it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27358	We are now going to the eighth position, dear colleague Milan Vrkljan, independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27359	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk today about the problems of Croatian society and I see them like this. One of the biggest problems of Croatian society is the 300,000 evicted citizens, some of whom we talked about before me. Also, 240 000 completed families, which when multiplied is almost a million Croats, have been completed for some reason. Then in Croatia is the problem, one of the biggest problems, rule of law and the rule of law, but I will talk here today about family planning in the Republic of Croatia. Last year and before last year, in Croatia, 8,000 mothers made their pregnancy stop. In the last 5 years there have been 40,000 interruptions in the rule of this government and since the creation of the Croatian state, 200,000 interruptions in pregnancy. I'm not going to talk about ideology here, worldview, I'm not talking about the right to live, I'm not talking about the right to choose, I'd like to look back at a group of women who are between 30 and 35 and usually have a third pregnancy that they decided to interrupt. The analysis of statistics, which are unfortunately not always reliable in Croatia but we will take them as relevant, these mothers who have decided to stop pregnancy are usually family women and that is their third pregnancy. To the physician’s inquiry about why they decided to stop pregnancy, most of them are pronounced for a difficult material situation. What has the Republic of Croatia done in general for the care, the support of such families? The first six months. families and such mothers receive 100% salary and then receive either a minimum of 2328 kn or a maximum of 5600 kuna while the local government, which is in principle Zagreb in a better position, gives twice as much as 900 kn per year to such families. Overall, from the budget or budget of the Republic of Croatia, 126 million kuna appears to be relatively decent money, but this is 31 kn per capita, 31 kn per capita for all children born in Croatia. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia's budget amounts to €3 billion for civil society. 3 billion kuna. Of these 3 billion kn when taken over by the head of the population, it is exactly 750 kn per year per capita, even that child that was born a month earlier was burdened with those 750 kn, in the end it is one average four-member family a year 3000 kn for civil societies and you remember, 31 kn per capita for families and mothers who are born. I will not call here again either to ideology or to the worldview, I will not appeal to the right to life or to the right to choose, I will call here to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia is among other things and the social state. So if we and the social state, then I ask the question of what did the parliamentary majority who brought this budget for 2021 accept that 31 kn per capita is allocated from the Republic of Croatia's budget for each child born and 750 kn for all civil society? And another message for our minister Beros. When viewed statistically, of the 8,000 pregnancy interruptions that occur every year, it's incredibly 40%, that's what doctors, gynecologists wrote, 40% is due to fertility abnormalities. If that were true, Croatia would be a place for scientists from all over the world to try to explain this phenomenon. That's why I'm going to say what Beroš said, "I personally have no problem with abortion" Mr. Minister, you have no problem with the abortion, you have trouble financing [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] the families they gave birth to. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27386	He will now speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27387	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The “Zagrepcanka of the Year” award has been awarded since 2007 as an annual award to the citizens of the City of Zagreb who have contributed significantly to the affirmation of women in society and the public, the affirmation of women's human rights and gender equality, and who have achieved recognizable results in raising the quality of women's life in the City of Zagreb as criteria for awarding. Since the start of the award, there has been a dispute over the award itself so that the first prize voted in 2007 to be given to the co-ordinator of the first women's shelter Neva Tolle from the autonomous women's house, the mayor changed violently after the commission's decision. And since then, the mayor has awarded the award according to his criteria, the award is awarded to women, the truth, the merits in their fields of activity, but primarily because they are close to the mayor, either members of his team or the parties themselves, such as Ljubica Matijević Vrsaljko or sportswoman Sandra Perkovic, or longtime members of various city administration companies, as was the otherwise responsible actress and theatre host Marija Sekelez. But they did not make any significant achievements in that previous year. The award is therefore often a substitute for the Life's Work Award which was really not her intention, so the new project partner HDZ conditioned the 2018 award for Mirjana Bohanec Vidovic whose contribution was just the two and '18. He wasn't visible to anyone until his partner. Getting the Zagreb Year Award just because you're a woman connected to a mayor or coalition partner degrades and cancels the meaning of the prize and once again in this field shows that a more important similarity than the affirmation of women in society and the public and sends a completely wrong message about women, their awards are decided by men in political trade. This year's 12 candidates highlight women from the fields of culture, education, science, social work. But what do we have this year, what proposal do we have this year? The directorship of KBC and director Ante Corusic, with the support of a local committee, points out that Alemka Markotic is one of the leading scientists in Croatia in the field of biomedical sciences that has contributed significantly to the development of virology and discovery of new scientific knowledge. That's true, but it's such an explanation for Mrs. Devereaux. Markotic may qualify as a scientist of the year because the proposal does not state anything that would particularly highlight her as a person who promoted gender equality and affirmed the position of women. On the contrary, she, with her role in the headquarters, persuaded the position of women, the expected obedience often to the harm of her profession, and was precisely by her party obedience in defending the anti-supervision decisions of women's affirmation in society. And agreeing to the HDZ proposal to award Dr. Markotic once again shows a strong connection between Bandic and HDZ. In fact, the mayor gave up his induced proposal for the award to be awarded by Natalija Price, a representative of his own party in the city's assembly, who did not contribute to the affirmation of women's human rights but did not, as explained, achieve recognizable results in raising the quality of women's lives in the City of Zagreb. How ironic. The proposal with Bandic said that she was one of the most active representatives in the city's assembly, which is not true, was one of the most inactive representatives and MPs in the city's assembly. Women are therefore once again being rewarded with a message that nepotism can be rewarded, and for HDZ and Bandic it seems to be nothing new. The affirmation of women's rights and gender equality, of course, can only be spoken ironically. Any woman in the pandemic who was on the front line of defense against the coronary virus, nurse or doctor, kindergarten teacher, online teacher, worker in nursing homes, cashier or saleswoman, unemployed mother, this award could be earned first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27445	The fifth debate, National Movement Representatives' Club, respected colleague Stipo Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27446	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today, in front of the Homeland Movement, I'm going to talk about peer violence. Today is Pink T-shirt Day. By decision of the Croatian Parliament of 2017, today is the day of its national day of combating peer violence. Peer violence is one of the major problems of the younger population. The movement to raise awareness of the problem of peer violence in February began in 2007 in Canada when a boy wore a pink shirt to school in support of breast cancer patients, but became the target of peer abuse and mockery. His classmates began to come in pink shirts as a sign of support for the boy and thus began the day of pink T-shirts that then spread to the whole world. It is important to know that children cannot stand up to peer violence alone. The main role in preventing peer violence is parents, experts and teachers who need to show empathy and understanding for the abused child and strongly condemn any violence that is increasingly present in society and leaves enormous consequences for the development of the abused child. Unfortunately, violence is increasingly present in the school halls, on the street and on the Internet. Cyberbullying has become a major problem in modern times. This is about behavior that aims to intimidate or humiliate other users of the Internet world. Sadly, almost every one of us either went through some form of violence or knew a person who was abused at some point in her life. As a prisoner of Serbian concentration camps, I also felt what violence, experience and how brutal it can be. Violence leaves great consequences on the mental and physical health of individuals. Often, the victims of violence by something different, withdrawn, and unobtrusive as such are targets for the violent. A bully doesn't have to be older, bigger, or stronger than his victim. A child experiencing violence must report the same thing. No, it's not snitching or treason. It is important to educate children to whom they address in the event of violence. There is a need to educate children on how to help the situation when they are witnesses of violence. Today, children are even more imprisoned inside themselves, having difficulty dealing with the pandemic of the coronal virus and the need and accident they face today. Such vulnerable children are even easier targets of a bully. And now I'd like to talk a little bit about peer violence in my native Slavonia. Unfortunately, the generators of this violence are colleagues from HDZ and the SDSS. You've separated the children from the schools, you've put on yellow ribbons as your president likes to tell the party Mr. Plenkovic when he talks about three monkeys. You've separated children from the smallest age to live in parallel worlds. They don't know each other, they don't socialize, they don't celebrate birthdays together. And then when they grow up when they're in their teens, when they fight in the middle of Vukovar, then they blame you for cheerleading groups, then they blame you for Bad Blue Boys, Torceda, Ultras, Cohort or anyone else. It's not the cheerleading group's fault that you gentlemen are dear HDZ and SDSS. Join the children in school together, go on trips together, fall in love with their school days, spend their childhood as they should. And what you're doing, you're spending out of your petty party interests so that you can catch your people on the ground, in the schools from the cleaners to the professors and directors. Don't do that, don't let that for, you've been raised since the '98 generation until now, it's 23 years old, don't let what happened again in 91st, that kids learn different history at school and at the end of the day when evil happens you'll still eat croissants like you ate in '91. in Brussels, and the poor will die in Slavonic fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27517	Here, colleagues Oreshković, you are the last, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27518	Good afternoon, MPs. I'll give a speech about psychopaths. In fact, Croatia is underprivileged and insufficiently used by our scientists. In one week an excellent scientific paper was published. Dr. Science Tade Jurić from the Croatian Catholic University which is so great that it deserves to be read at least in parts here in HS for this speaker. The article describes the profile of people who are predators, psychopaths, who are often hidden behind the mask of good leaders, who are pushing nations into ruin. I note that every similarity with real life and with our political scene is expected by any association that wakes up in describing psychopaths. This scientific analysis is something that we need to take care of in all the upcoming elections. Psychopaths are characterized by a complete lack of conscience and obsession with power and control with the abundance of vanity. In fact, psychopaths are completely content with themselves, often above the averages of people who seem even more normal than normal. Incompetence for empathy and lack of conscience are the main qualities that enable them to succeed in politics, economy and life in general. Those qualities give them an advantage. They have no conscience, a psychopath is in a situation where he has a great advantage over a normal man whose conscience does not give peace if he sines against another. That's what a psychopath is like as predators and normal people as well as society institutions are their victims, they're their prey. The psychopaths are superficially charming, often good intelligence, freed from anxiety and anxiety, narcissistic and lack of a sense of shame. They have a pathological feeling they have the right to something more than others. They suffer from a complex of higher value and have delusions about their grandeur but are very careful of the facade of a humble and modest person. The psychopaths have everything they need to deceive others, for them are empathy, remorse, and a sense of responsibility, signs of weakness that they want to exploit, and they will use if they can. Psychopaths are difficult to identify because they have traits that are considered desirable in certain situations. They leave the impression of strong confidence and character, so such individuals break through to the leading positions in numerous dams. They are always able to relativize the situation, they are experts in the management of impressions and the lack of content of their performances are disguised by their eloquence. Their characteristics are self-centered and narcissistic, hungry for fame and importance. Since they can lie without effort, they don't even care when they're caught in a lie, then they simply process their story and, if necessary, they can act out remorse. Normal people usually move out of such an environment because in every situation between a psychopath and a normal man, a psychopath always wins and then constantly strengthens. The corporate psychopath uses organizational chaos and so does political psychopaths to exploit social chaos. Politics is a bait for psychopathic individuals because of the concentration of power and influence that politics has. The psychopaths are stupid and boring and tasteless and the psychopaths in politics are very aware that they are different from others, so they prefer to hang out in closed circles. If the psychopaths made known their motives, others would be horrified. That's why early psychopaths learn how to fit in by copying normal human reactions, facial expressions and behavior. They learn when it's appropriate to cry and show grief, anxiety, love, or regret, they learn all those emotions they don't really feel. Psychos recognize each other, so they team up and like to do it in a variety of semi-secret and secret societies. We have popular illegal clubs. Often, with the help of these societies, they advance through all the pores of society and countries in which they occupy key positions, stretching each other. That's where I'm gonna stop for today. This scientific article is extensive and needs to be read several times, several asks especially the eyes of all the upcoming choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27519	This is what we came to an end with discussions free on behalf of clubs and independent representatives, and now we're going to start on the agenda. The debate under number 12 will be a respected colleague, Maria Kapulice, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27618	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, we may soon have a debate in this assembly on the amendments and additions of our Rules of Procedure, something has been discussed at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. If the policy of support continues, not only statements but also concrete actions that Croatian society wants to introduce segregation, or prejudices, would not surprise me if someone suggested in this Rules of Procedure that special rules should be introduced for those who have ceased to deserve respect for their dignity, which are representatives of the HDZ just as in real life our members support voters and sympathisers who call us these days and ask us if we can make them out of such procedures and such attacks and such discrimination protection. Because following what some have been doing lately, they are working in the Rules of Procedure to introduce a provision that HDZ MPs do not have the right to replicate and correct an incorrect quote because all that is said about them is the naked truth, that they do not have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure because there is no insult they have not earned, so there can be no responsibility for those who insult them, right? In real life, that should also apply to all those who are attached to HDZ and then to our families or not to God's voters. These should be treated in particular because if they were not there were no problems, HDZ would not be in power, there would probably not be a pandemic or an earthquake, and then there would be no need to, like any society affected by this pandemic and these catastrophic earthquakes, to discuss the right to work, to restrict that right to protect people's lives and health. And like this, when we can't ban him from communicating as an idea some presidents of parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament ahead of these elections might not be bad, it might not be bad in time to tell people who support HDZ not to do so because they could be left without fundamental human rights and rights to respect and dignity. We have already witnessed suggestions that in churches we should be denied honor, our children may not be admitted to the store tomorrow, released to the store or thrown out of the tram because they did not predict a place for coloreds. That for the colored hate that someone points at them and everything that's connected to HDZ. Although only a member of the HDZ who is not perfect, such as not a perfect party or a group of people, regardless of what it is gathering them, and by everyone I see that such assessments do not bother them, I belong to a human sub-class worth of contempt and trampling, I am convinced that I may not seem to articulate them hard enough and hard enough because I am not making noises and yelling like my fellow Sačić or some other MPs, but I believe in a Croatian man, I believe in a free and democratic Croatia, strength and maturity of Croatian society when there is no power or maturity in many political circles. And I'm not and we're not hypersensitive in HDZ, we're suffering, and we're willing to suffer different kinds of insults, I can handle being called a member of a corrupt partyocracy and a corrupt, congenital class of traitorous politicians. I've seen the play of insignificant, more or less significant politicians, people who knowingly and needlessly lie, bend, exaggerate others based on lies and lies humiliate themselves. Such policies as respected colleagues and colleagues have their desired and unwanted consequences. One of the consequences of such policies and of such policies is the classification of the human and civil integrity of hundreds of thousands of members and supporters of one party. So social relations and tensions cannot be solved By opening the hate room, we carefully plow the ground and watch what we sow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27687	Honorable MPs and respected MPs, I wish you a good morning. We will go as every Wednesday by taking the stand of the club representatives and independent representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27688	Dear President HS Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples. The media is worth recording the games of the prime minister and his spin masters related to the Rijeka cafe "Three Monkeys". Very fast the public as if they forgot about the double criteria of taking measures to abuse in the vaccination system, very quickly as if the public had forgotten about the system that persistently builds equal and equal, very quickly as if we had forgotten the enormous burdens that are suffocating our entrepreneurs and craftsmen like mandatory membership fees for HGK, as if we had forgotten about corruption affairs that are jumping out of the pasture, so we can't even spend a single day passing that we don't hear in Croatia, we don't know about any new affair. It's not about closed sports halls, about a ruined sport, it's not about the completed ones, about the blocked ones, about the costs that lead to the debt growing several times larger than the principal, it's not about all those costs of FINA, the taxi lawyers in these processes of the performance. And now it should be our main subject of bitter hospitality, my fellow citizen, a Riverain who certainly hates no one but is deeply frustrated with injustice. People are frustrated with injustice. This injustice has also led us to the eviction and departure of many of our citizens from the Republic of Croatia. We don't have any intelligence policy. And if we all get together here, right now and don't deal with the catastrophic demographic situation right now, we're not just gonna have empty cafes of distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we're gonna have empty kindergartens, we're gonna have empty elementary schools, we're gonna have empty high schools, we're gonna have empty universities, we're gonna have empty companies, we're gonna have twists, everything's gonna be empty, buses and trams, we're gonna be even more empty. Since joining the EU, more than 300,000 Croats have moved from Croatia to Germany alone to today. By the way, 15 times more Croats have moved to the country than in Ireland, although the two countries are being placed in the same basket. It's evicted 8% of our population. It is, to be plastic, as if Osijek, Rijeka and Split were gone. Imagine, today is Wednesday, and that there is some wicked magic wand and that fires and tomorrow there is no Split, the Splits are gone, the Rijekas are gone, the Senses are gone, you don't exist, and we're talking about a Rijeka cafe here. We talk here, it spins, it throws bones at people to deal with irrelevant topics, that's easier, right? The people have seen, the eyes of the people have opened, and you will not succeed. The number of people in my city has dropped 9%. My city of Rijeka has lost every 12 inhabitants. My Rijeka is one of the four largest Croatian cities with the largest population decline. My city has been sleeping too long. Some would like to keep sleeping. Oh, no, it won't work. He will be awakened by energy, honesty and freedom of profession. Our prime minister is arguing with the caterers that his headquarters destroyed while he can't stand the people's anger over illogical measures, and we're having absurd situations. She came to my headquarters, mother of four, 16 years old. She's employed in the Klana and says she moved out of the apartment, no one wants to rent her an apartment. Says Marine, they tell me I have too many children, a single mother. What do we as a state do for these mothers, for our families, for our citizens or for spin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27728	Let's move on, debate nine, dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi, National Minority Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27729	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This year, for the fifth time, the National Day of Fight against peer violence is marked. In 2017, our Assembly Committee for Family, Youth and Sports has adopted the initiative of the Centre for Education and Prevention of Violence in the Proposal for a Decision to mark this day, each year, on the last Wednesday of February, which the Croatian Parliament also accepted. As it is today, that last Wednesday of the month, I will take this opportunity to speak a few sentences on the subject. It is not my intention to fill you with a list of different statistics that you will be able to hear today at a press conference, which the board is holding on to this occasion, but in this brief presentation, say something about violence against Roma children, and before that about another type of violence, all the presence among children and young people. Peer violence today is not only done in terms of physical violence and unfortunately has spread to... the sphere, i.e. social networks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that something is not happening in the real world, but... It represents a minor problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Words of hate and insult... Someone on the screen is no less painful for victims of violence, and bullyes under the protection of anonymity often become even more cruel than on the street. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Children, or young people on the Internet, are increasingly facing abuse on the Internet, i.e. threats and various abuses. It is alarming that the growing age of child abuse is growing, so it is necessary to train children, parents and teachers to face traps on the Internet because children have the right to better protection and safety in... The world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To begin with, it is necessary to recognize the abuse of the Internet, the non-application of comments and content because young people often do not know how to protect themselves and what information is certainly shared and which ones are not. Also, in such situations parents need education because they often do not know what to do and how to help children cope with the possible harmful consequences of social networks. In addition, there is a large role in school because through education it is necessary to point out harmful phenomena on the Internet, violence on the Internet is often visible, for example through evaluation and commenting on someone’s appearance. Once published content generally remains permanent on the web and impossible to control. Sharing someone’s private content and unapplicable commentation are very often examples of abuse on the Internet and social networks. I therefore feel that stricter punishment for abuse is necessary than for those who very often spread hatred and sexist content. Cybernetic safety of young people and children in my opinion should be an electoral subject in schools because children need to know what they are surrounded by in order to protect themselves, and media literacy may also be the greatest competence in the 21st century and as such we must respect it through the educational system. It certainly remains for discussion to see what other tools are available to the state apparatus to better protect children and young people on social networks. He would refer to another subject related to violence against children, including my Roma, or Roma national minorities. According to the child’s attorney, every 4th child under 16 years of age experienced physical punishment, either psychologically abused or witnessed domestic violence, and according to the Ombudsman herself, in this regard, the most affected are to be discontinued just by Roma children. Namely, one’s quality of life depends largely on the residence, or place of birth, and the most deprived in this regard are Roma children and are on average exposed to violence from other children. Roma children are often stigmatized because of individuals, even when it comes to children who are clean, go to school, and make every effort. Unfortunately, all of this is often not enough to discourage the abusers from mocking Roma children and harassing them. What makes me even more saddened are cases... So we have, that is, the Republic of Croatia has a verdict from Strasbourg in the case of Orsush and others, which refers to the intention of having Roma children shower when entering school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just imagine how someone's ever thought of it, that's all the consequences of earlier generalization. And here it is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27737	We are now going to the sixth debate, dear colleague Dragana Jeckov on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27738	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS today symbolically have a pink T-shirt and I join the day of marking the national day of marking the fight against peer violence. But I won't talk about it, although I don't agree with most of the things the predecessor said, I'm going to say something about the fact that it ends up tomorrow one year after the coronary virus appeared in Croatia and caused a number of problems. From that day forward, more than 240,000 people have been infected and more than 5,500 people have died, which is certainly the most undeniable tragedy and the worst result of the virus. It's inconceivable that the virus if it could be collected to actually fit into a can of coke, and so many problems it caused. This virus required a rapid reaction from those who made decisions, as well as from those to whom those decisions apply, all with the aim of bringing human victims to a minimum. One of them was to Colloquially express that the borders are closed, by deciding on a temporary ban and restricting crossing across the border crossings of the Republic of Croatia from 30.11.2020. This decision has been amended several times depending on the development of the epidemiological situation and the current version is in effect up to 28.2. However, I do have to draw attention to some facts that might be useful to take into account when making a new decision. A number of Croatian citizens living in the border area naturally gravitate towards neighbouring countries. The reasons for this are different whether it's business, family ties, real estate, education and other. Some of these categories are in a more difficult position when we talk about entering the Republic of Croatia from third countries. Since I come from the east, I am a witness that there are a significant number of Croatian citizens who are from Osijek, Vukovar, White Manastir, and are studying, for example, in Subotica, Novi Sad, Sombor, Orasja and Bijeljina. The problem creates a moment when Croatian citizens return to their country from these third countries and independently of citizenship must have a negative PCR test not exceeding 48 hours or perform testing immediately upon arrival in the Republic of Croatia on their own cost with the obligation of self-insulation until the negative finding is obtained. In the event of inability, they shall be determined by a 10-day isolation measure. All of this presents a serious problem for people living in the border area, especially for students or their parents because it certainly presents a kind of blow to their home budget. In addition to the need to mitigate the regime for the entry of Croatian citizens from the Republic of Serbia and BiH into the Republic of BiH, more facts are also being expressed. One of them is sure to contribute to the epidemiological picture and an increasing number of people vaccinated. For example, on Saturday, more than 160,000 doses of vaccine were spent in the Republic of Serbia, at least one dose of vaccine received more than a million people, which is more than 15% of the total population. In light of the above, we are calling on the competent institutions to take into account these indisputable facts and facilitate the return of Croatian citizens to the Republic of Croatia in the next consideration of the decision on the temporary ban and the restriction of cross-border crossings of the Republic of Croatia. And without intending to politicise this, this topic is simply to facilitate the crossing of the border I appeal to consider the liberalisation of the crossing, the crossing of the Croatian border or the entry of Croatian citizens into the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27774	Now the 11th most respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27775	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Corona ate cancer. When the number of newly discovered cancer cases falls, that doesn't mean the number of cancer patients has fallen. They weren't examined, and they were supposed to be. When the number of operations goes down, that doesn't mean that people didn't need these operations. They didn't happen, and they should have. The coronary virus attacks the body, the coronary measures attack society, that not every body will react equally to the virus so that not every society will react equally to the measures. This global health crisis has hit the Croatian health system that has already been in its crisis, nothing new. Croatia is at the incidence of cancer on the European average, but by mortality it is in the top fifth place, the second for men, the seventh for women. We're always kind of on the wrong side of the ladder, when it's good, then we're at the bottom, when it's bad, here we are again at the top. All the countries of the world have asked their health systems to squeeze in, not every country has held on as long as possible, and not every equal number of human victims will cost. The price is paid, yes, it's paid in lives and we'll overpay it sooner or later. It's not just the healthcare system, the health care staff, the doctors, the nurses, the labs, the organization, the technical services, the crisis management, the finances, the handling until the cleaning. Croatia has the lowest distance between 46 hospitals from all EU countries, this advantage should have been used during the crisis. Reorganize the health system and specialize 4.5 hospitals for covid hospitals, and that all others work normally. And another thing that should never have been done, which is never, never to declare a political victory over an invisible enemy. This way in 2020. 20-25% less procedures, reviews, therapy and diagnosis were performed in Croatian hospitals, more specifically around 110,000 services less. Many tens of thousands of people caught by statistics, not those who are not seduced by statistics, will have a reduction in the quality of life, a shorter life, or will lose it as soon as possible. After everything that's gonna happen? The waiting lists that have been too long will be extended, the corruption that should have been eradicated will continue to flourish because everyone who can look for these checks over the line and over the link. We're making a new schlamper. People will pay the same service twice, through contributions, plus private because they will not be able to come to order, and their lives and health will be in danger. So we can forget some major health reforms that have long cried out for a big change. Happy anniversary of the beginning of this pandemic, I appeal to everyone to stop playing with the lives and lives that are less and less in Croatia every day. I think our hospital system is more expensive in cold power than in full activity, time will soon prove and the figures will soon prove I'm right. And for the end of my speech, please, please, never ever again declare a victory because we're historically overpaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27802	Fourth debate, club of IDS MPs, esteemed colleague Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27803	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A little bit about the absurdities of Croatian bureaucracy that failed to change even this global pandemic. Unfortunately, the first one sounds incredible but it is true that Croatia is in a situation although it is faced with a lack of doctors, nurses, medical technicians and other medical staff, we continue as if we do not want to and tell them "stop, you are not wanted." In particular, it is about the application of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in a way that is directly discriminated against by our citizens, Croatian citizens who have graduated from a secondary medical school in another country, an EU member, in particular here I will talk about an example in Slovenia. While developed European countries seek to attract such personnel, they mean educated, young people, eager to work with vulnerable groups in society, sick, people with special needs, Croatia not only attracts them, but we create obstacles to return to the country because we have a case that the person who graduated from the secondary medical school in Slovenia cannot get to work in Croatia unless he listens to another 2500 hours. I repeat, 2500 hours to give them the professional qualification that this person has acquired abroad. The same person, if he wants to work in Germany, needs to lay the German language level B2. And it could be concluded that the Croatian administration clearly knows better than German, however, when we look at the scales and where Croatia is and where Germany is located, we see that we are in great error. Worst of all, these absurdities of Croatian bureaucracy do not end in a particular case. Not only can these persons in Croatia not be employed as nurses or medical technicians but they cannot be employed at all at any job required by a secondary professional because they are recognised as having completed only primary school in Croatia. It means not only that I cannot work in my own profession that they have acquired in the EU member state but I cannot work or, for example, can't work. in the store, or anywhere else where high school is guarded, and we all know that today on the labour market, it is common that the middle professional prepares some minimum that is required in employment. We should not be surprised, therefore, that young people are leaving Croatia. So who will stay to work if he gets a degree and then comes back to Croatia and someone tells him "e, now another 2500 hours of education so that he can do the same job in Croatia", and this diploma was acquired not in some third-world country but in a member state, an EU member country. And unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, but only one of the examples that clearly shows all the disorientation of the Croatian education system and in the case of tens of thousands of students of professional studies, which I was already talking about. Often, we can hear and hear about reforms at only one more general level, when discussing the need for reforming in one or more sectors, but on this particular example, we see that the system as we have today generates injustice to people and leads them to leave Croatia irrevocably and go to another European country where their knowledge, skills and professional qualifications will be recognised and appreciated. All citizens who are educated abroad must have a clear opportunity and a clear picture and perspective that their diplomas will be recognised if they want to return and live and work here in Croatia. The state must act proactively and in communication with each other, not to have a situation that makes it difficult for them to return to Croatia through absurd bureaucratic procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27827	The second is the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists, respected counterpart Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u27828	Thank you, Honorable President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have witnessed in recent years that the great cut the forest from like and Slavonia as seen from the annual reports of the Croatian forests where the i.e. is increased. the use of wood stocks in 10 years. It's up almost 50%. The large Croatian furniture industry has been mostly closed in the last 2 decades, and furniture production today in Croatia is mainly reduced to crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises. The management of our cut wooden mass was based on the sale and export of basic wood raw materials such as African countries that sell their natural resources for invaluable purposes and imports of finished products. Today we would refer to the question of forest management in the city of Zagreb, in fact on Medvednica where we witnessed almost daily the desert and abandoned Zagreb mountain and we witnessed great natural disasters that have hit this great and major damage on Medvednica, but significant damage to the forest caused by the megaloma project of Zagreb cableways. But it cannot justify today's appearance of the Medvednica that begins to accept the appearance of our islands after the devastation of the forests in the Middle Ages by the Melts. For a number of years, the Zagreb Forest has not been able to carry out quality tasks with a purpose that has been established and for a number of years co-operatives and contract entities have managed wood mass without effective supervision. Unfortunately, Šumarija Zagreb is under-tagged as regards both materially and physically, but this is no excuse for not controlling the cutting of wood on Zagreb's mountain. Public data of the inventory cut both the surface and how much wood was cut and sold, given the type of wood, oak, beech, chestnut and food, and how much revenue was achieved, are not available. The only thing that many citizens see every day is the empty bare slopes of Zagreb up there. That the situation on the ground is not being followed by official reports is almost normal in our country because we do not have an effective view of the quota cutting down the forest, where we have little control over the amount of wood cut off. Will the cooperative cut off 5 thousand or 7 thousand or 10 thousand cc's of wood, whether it was cut down, whether it was necessary and whether the forest was literally uncritically devastated on the route of the new cableway, is often left to the material... performers themselves without effective supervision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The damage is certainly visible permanently, and for the right state and volume it is necessary to present the inventory report for the last 5 years for Medvednica, such as the 2010-2020 ARCOD, so that all of us know what we are on because the real situation does not correspond to the ARCOD that can actually be controlled regularly. Since every year, Šumarija Zagreb spends 1.8 million kuna on breeding work, according to this information, we could plan to leave the forest for our children in the future. In the park of the forests of the city of Zagreb, which includes the forest areas of Zelengaja, Tuškanac, Jelenovac, Pantovac, Vrhovac, Cmrokva, Mallin's park, Remete, Grmoščice, Lisičina, Zamorski brijeg, Šeinski dol, Mirogoj-Crrreni jarek,... Remete, Dotrščina, Dankovčka and the forests around the City of Youth are marked by a great spread from ivy to intruder, which contributes to the shortening of the life span of the forest, and the foundation of the management of the Forest of Zagreb prescribes works to be carried out during the period of its validity, from 2014 to 2023. Among other things, it covers from the preparation of habitats, from, for natural rejuvenation, filling, care and cleaning and preservation of forests, to plant diseases and pests to the maintenance of green areas that have not grown in forest trees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, Šumarija Zagreb does not implement this in a satisfactory way and at an appropriate level and the Zagreb Forest Park are also facing for destruction and what we can expect is actually the opening of new... the geodesic shifts on Zagreb's Sljemen, which is often brought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we invest enormous money on one side in Žicara city of Zagreb, it took more quality access to the maintenance and restoration of the forest fund on Zagreb mountain. I think it is also an opportunity to include the Zagreb schools that are also co-financed from the city budget to the school in the nature of Sljemen with one educational action of hammaging Zagreb up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35032	The first is the point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands, first reading, P.Z. No. 87 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. I welcome the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, respected Natasha Tramišak, who will present the above-mentioned bill. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35033	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Island Act. The legal framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of the island development policy shall be ensured by the Law on Islands which entered into force in December 2018. It established the policy and way of managing the development of Croatian islands, Pelješac peninsula as well as their protection, competent authorities, grouping island classification, island development evaluation and monitoring and reporting on the implementation of island development policy measures for the effective use of funds from the state budget, EU funds and other sources of funding. From that period to this day, more than 6 billion kuna has been invested from national funds or from State budget funds to activities and projects on the islands. More than 7 billion kuna have been invested from EU funds for projects on islands from the 2014-2020 programming period, through the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, effective human potential, rural development programme, operational programme for maritime and fisheries but also European territorial co-operation. The island law is expressed as a multi-sectoral law but for this reason it is also subject to systemic changes so that it can move forward with time and respond to the challenges facing the islands. The implementation of the Island Act thus pointed to the need to amend and supplement the provisions which prescribe the measures and activities as well as the need to bring the law in question into line with other regulations. Amendments and additions to the law relate primarily to the transposition of the provisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Law on Islands of July 2020. This Regulation has been amended. 33. In order to ensure that the additional quantities of water needed at the subsidized price for island-occupied islands or parts of the settlement are quickly provided for in the law on islands, which are not connected to the public water supply network. Thus, water is delivered by means of an auto-cister or a waterway boat and the amount has been increased from 45 cubic metres to 85 cubic metres per year per individual island. It is important to note in the context of addressing the long-term drinking water problem for islanders, that 13 different water projects are being implemented, including five investments in agglomerations that ensure the availability of public water supply. The total value of these investments from EU funds is 1.6 billion kuna for agglomerations on the island of Krk, Murter, Pag, Hvar, Cres and Losinj. The entry into force of the Island Act extends the circle of users of this measure to island operators which include natural and legal persons carrying out economic activity in the island settlement or part of the island settlement which is not connected to the public water supply system. It is further regulated in that part to define this measure as State aid granted to economic operators in accordance with the rules for the granting of State aid for a maximum of up to 50 costs of the water delivered. According to the available records of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds 4.234 of the island households and 7,262 of the island are covered by this measure in 2020. 17.7 million kuna spent. In addition to the above, the analysis of the current normative framework assessed the need to further regulate and comply with other legal frameworks of this law. Furthermore, the provisions of Art. 11. The island law which prescribes the establishment of island urban areas is amended by these amendments and additions, i.e. they are deleted if there is no prescribed basis for the development of such a strategy. It is no longer related to their obligation to develop the Urban Area Strategy, and what is most important is that the strategies that would include these areas on the islands are in line with the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia, and implementation of the island development policy will be brought into line with the Development Plan of the Countys of which the islands belong. In part, the composition of the Island Council is changed and it is prescribed that a representative of the regional coordinator may participate in it, and we have added to the regional coordinators a composition, i.e. we have included island coordinators in order to better coordinate complementarity and implementation of the Island Development Programme. The provisions of Article 1 shall also be amended. 26. The island law is also in line with the Law on the Strategic Planning and Management System of the Development of the Republic of Croatia, where the current Plan for the Development of the Island also becomes an integral part of the Plan for the Development of the Coastal Island Unit of the Regional Self-Government, so County. The obligation to adopt an island annual programme is also abolished, the harmonisation of development agreements with the strategies and programmes of the Republic of Croatia and the EU in order to give greater powers to coastal units of regional self-government in the management of integrated island development. The national plan for the development of the island must cover the content related to the island's transport connection and comply with the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the second law to which we are harmonising the Act on Islands is also the Law on Transport in Road Transport and gives authority to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and to the competent body of the regional self-government for the implementation of the measure of preferential transport of prescribed categories of population under the public road transport service on islands and the monetary compensation measures for the compensation of the costs of their own transport to persons with disabilities who cannot use public island road transport, and the means to implement these measures will be provided in the state budget in the budget of the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and to the units of regional self-government. The activities of the Croatian island product Programme are further regulated in such a way that the designation “Croatian island product” and the grants for the organisation of events promoting the Croatian island product are awarded in the administrative procedure. Further, the harmonisation of nomotechnical or regulated legal norms follows. This bill is in line with all relevant bodies, representing regional and local public administration bodies, so that all island, coastal and regional co-ordinators as well as the general public in the public consultation process, so that all provisions are consistent at the horizontal and vertical level of the implementation of the island development policy. As with the current amendments to the normative framework, this law has acquired the right of the island population, which has been in place since 1999. They extend, upgrade, modernise and reduce the differences in the cost of life and work and the availability of basic services on islands in relation to land. Furthermore, the islands remain in our focus with the aim of the remains of the island's population, primarily young families and additional settlements on islands will also directly affect the employment of the island's population as well as the overall revitalisation of the development of the islands themselves. I would further mention and single out the most significant programmes and measures implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds for the islands. The island development programme relating to the promotion and development of the local community by increasing the quality and availability of municipal, educational, health, social, cultural, sports, entrepreneurial, tourist and other public services with systematic support for environmental protection. The main objective of the programme is to create a precondition for sustainable economic and social development and in the period until 2020. 189 projects worth 102 million kuna have been co-financed. The second programme is the supply of proper water for human consumption on islands, which is the most important subject of amending this law. For the period from 2016 to 2020, 63 million kuna was invested in this purpose. Free public road transport, I also mentioned it in line with the Public Road Transport Act. The Ministry of Regional Development currently records eight island carriers operating on 380 lines for 17 islands and Peljesac Peninsula, which has been invested since 2016-2020. with subsidisation of free island transport 151 million kuna. Furthermore, the Fund for the financing of capital projects of interest for the development of the island from which 149 million kuna was invested. Encourage the competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship in islands under the Small Value Grant Programme for the conservation of jobs carried out once a year for the purpose of promoting the island economy. During this measure, just over 43 million kunas were spent on 1,266 island employers. And the final code ‘Croatian island product’, and we have just completed another call for the award of the code ‘Croatian island product’ in 2020 and 2021 respectively, has so far received a total of 324 island producers for 1.121 products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35034	Thank you. We have before the replica, a request for a break, colleague Zekanovic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35035	Dear Croatian Presidential Assembly, I demand a 10 minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. In fact, what the public obviously couldn't see was this whole bill of law talking about water supply, right? So it's about subsidized water for Croatian islanders and I'm going to mention two examples of good practice, under quotes of good practice, which is what HDZ personnel do about water supply on Croatian islands. It is 2 islands from the Sibenik archipelago, which is Kaprije, and the other is the Split archipelago that is the island of Brac. On the island of Brac, Vodavod Brač is currently building this building of 25 million kuna. 25 million kuna for a few people who work in the administration. Is this how the price of water will be subsidized, or is this how the island of Brac is helped to have cheaper water? And he's already in the announcement that there's going to be a water collection because this building can't be financed. Another example is the island of Capri near Sibenik where the last few years the price of water has jumped again, of course, in the direction of HDZ not more than 10 times. So, the population of Capri Island, the one who paid 100 kuna today, pays 1,000 kuna, who paid 1,000 kuna today, is paying 10,000 kuna. Some residents of the island of Capri also received last summer accounts of 18,19000 kuna. Is this how we, by this law or similar laws, will subsidize water or the price of water or help the population of the Croatian islands? I don't think that's the way. So, simple questions about how you feel about building this grand building in Supetar on the island of Brač of 25 million kuna and the collected water on the island of Capri?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35036	The apartment will be approved. Now it's time for fellow Boric, also a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35037	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to make it clear once again within the club, according to this law, which he makes, but also to make it clear to the Croatian public that something like this is good for Croatian islanders is turned on a topic that is completely guilty and not, from the one who pronounces it incomprehensible. Because in order for a gentleman to speak, he should know who owns that water line when he talks about the island of Brac and who should organize his job on that island as far as water supply is concerned. This is about a completely different moment, which is that the state subsidizes to, water supply of parts of the island that are not connected to the water supply system and increases the total number of cubes that are allowed means that it can be subsidized by almost twice as much. As islanders, we have always made clear to this ministry but also to the island administration as our center that has always helped us and has helped us make our life easier on the islands. What is important is that Croatian citizens must recognize such politicians who allegedly fight for them and their interests, and have never actually contributed to their lives in any way. When we talk about the island of Capri, a water supply system has been built on the island of Capri, but there is no water supply means to the island itself, and that requires water carriers that then empty this water into water storage and the level of subsidies when, when So we want to point out once again in the end that this is a good law, that we have to discuss it in the first reading. [[Intruder: Just keep going, he wasn't strong thank God.]] If there's anything else we have for him to add to our debate and thus prepare him for another reading and bring it in so that the islanders can still have all the help of the country that has been great so far, that they can normally mean live on islands, develop and achieve your goals of life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35038	Thank you very much. Let's go to the third request for a break now, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35039	Thank you very much. This Island Act, i.e. In addition to the law, the amendments to the law are essentially in line with the existing laws and regulations of the Government. Basically here is the most important moment this moment is the basic human rights are water. In fact, there's now something bigger, more of this cube per capita. I'd just say here that water is the most important thing for the islands. However, I would only say an example of how the river Cetina feeds most of the island of Dalmatia in the perspective of all the islands of Dalmatia. So we both have Brač and Hvar and Solta means birthplace and where he came from and where he came from. However, we still have islands, which is the Dalmatian Zagora, which is forgotten by everyone from where they are fed, they are islands in a political sense as if they do not belong to the Croatian legal system because they are being bypassed. Here's the Cetina River that feeds all those islands in Central Dalmatia absolutely nothing is invested in preserving that environment. In fact, we have an agglomeration of Sinj that direct sewerage also enters the Cetina River, absolutely by errors and local waterway, local authorities, Croatian Waters, Minister Ćorić and there will be problems if no additional project of agglomeration is found. And how important is Cetina? It is important because all islands are essentially powered from and at the time of tourism and today will be fed from the river Cetina. So once again you've made islands where you wouldn't feel sorry for it, the Dalmatian Zagora is unfortunately in the political sense of the island. The largest pool of drinking water is the Dalmatian Zagora. Therefore, once again under the emergency ministers, the law on undeveloped areas is mainly on Dalmatia's Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35040	A colleague, Kujundzic, is now in line for the replica, and not that is, not sorry, a break, a break from fellow Bauk, is, is, is, nothing. Comrade Bauk, it's a break. We have another break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35041	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Since other colleagues have used the right to pause to express their position on this law in short lines and its contents I will do so and I will not need more than two minutes. So first of all, I have to admit that this is a good opportunity for all the representatives of the HS regardless of the party club they belong to to get a feeling that we who from the island would have to present in a way that is specific to the island, and what my colleague Bulj said about both the Dalmatian Zagora and some other parts of Croatia, it is really good that we behave more as representatives of our end in this case, and less as representatives of a particular political party. So this Law on Islands and the report that goes into the implementation of the Island Act seems to me to be rarely passed or accepted unanimously in HS, which is good. My view is that this island law is at the level of the declaration, which is not bad, may not be bad because it is followed by over 20 sublegal acts, which gives government, ministry or ministry certain flexibility in their ability to react relatively quickly, but it is not good when sublegal acts are delayed as far as this law is concerned. It is also good to increase the amount of water that is subsidized because the people who have been in these areas were, for example, deprived of the ability to deal with tourism, let's say they couldn't have a pool as part of the tourist, tourist offer, so that's how it helps. And what I have to say with a set, we still do, and that's what my colleague Bačić and Boric will agree on, this one prefers, while the Board of Islands was in the Ministry of the Sea, life is the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35042	Thank you very much. The apartment has been approved, and we still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35043	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here we go. He's hurt. 238, Mr. Bauk is now a great opportunity to confirm what he was saying during the time he spoke on behalf of the club when he said that he would stand in, that he had the right to stand up for HDZ. Well, here was now a great opportunity, given that it comes from the island of Brac, to deny the truth, not to tell the lie that Mr. Zekanovic told the city, Vodavod Brač is building a grand building in Supetar because it is, and that it is the work of HDZ. As far as I know, Waterwater Brač is owned by Milna Municipality [[Intruder: Thank you]] Municipalitys of Bol and the town of Supetar [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]] where JLS is not under HDZ management but under SDP administration. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35044	Thank you, you know this is a warning, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague, and so does Bauk, by, going for a warning. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35045	Yeah. Here's to not being unspeakable. So, the Brač Vodavod is owned by 8 JLS, of which 7, of which 6 have one part, and the two have divided in half, it doesn't matter, and the fact is that in the election of the new director, there was a certain division among these JLS not on the party line, that some have criticised the business policy of the plumbing, and some have not. So I couldn't defend either you or us because I had nothing to do with each other standing here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35046	Interesting controversy, but unfortunately I have to give a warning to you, too. My colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, I see you've reached out now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35047	Thank you very much, President HS. After this interesting discussion, two colleagues with two islands, one from Middle Dalmatian, and the other from South Dalmatian, I hope that we will have some more opportunities to hear in the debate on the law. So when it comes to the Law on Islands, the fact is that it always causes debate and we always declare ourselves and talk about what should be done and what would be good. And when the report we get is, then we see what's really been done and what's been going on. Me, I don't think any of these regulations are, and that's how we should look at it in stone, and I think it should change and supplement, what's wrong, and what's good to improve. But what we need to take care of is islands are physical islands, physically you can't reach them, but some parts of the Republic of Croatia are becoming islands compared to other regions in relation to the possibility of development, and this is an opportunity since the Minister of Resort is here to mention it and not to forget it. Don't let it happen to us, and it's the responsibility of the entire government and the full minister that the Banovina area will one day become an island that will only be land-related to the Republic of Croatia, and in all other things, so I'm talking about a negative context, I'm not talking about a positive context, about our islands that have more than 1,000 not now have an exact number in terms of development, and in terms of sustainable development, a number of things that need to be discussed, which, through this amendment and the addition of the law should be seen, but really I am taking this pause or seeking a break on behalf of the club is an appeal, don't be better told by doing certain parts of Croatia to become islands in that negative context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35048	The apartment will be approved for you too, so we'll be back to work at 11 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's 11:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35049	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:22 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35050	Thank you very much. Minister, this law introduces a provision that increases the amount of water for human consumption, which is subsidized, that is. I think it's okay, and I support it, that's what people on the islands deserve, basic human rights is water. Even if it's free, water if it's possible because it's as low a price as possible for people. However, the fact is that the areas that supply water, such as Cetina, Krka, Zrmanja, are all the rivers we are trying to protect and protect. I'm sorry that no one thinks about these people in the Dalmatian Zagora and in the hinterland that have absolutely no subsidies, but that, in fact, much more expensive water than in the Republic, means we've made islands, I would ask you once again from the hinterland and all the islands, to protect the course of.../incomprehensible/... Krka, mostly on the subject... aglomeration Sinj where sewerage influences open in the river Cetina [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to power all those islands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35051	Answer, Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35052	I'd like to thank the Honorable Parliamentary Representative Miro Bulj. Thus, drinking water supply is one of the fundamental human rights and in view of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far made sure that drinking water is available throughout the Republic of Croatia. What is important is that at present more than 60 water-communal infrastructure projects are worth more than 20 billion kuna. In the 2014-2020 operational programme, only 10 billion kuna were originally imagined for this purpose, however, as the needs are great, and you also mention the problem and water supply, but also the system, obviously, the draining at the river Cetina, has therefore been invested twice as much of what was planned. Such a trend will continue, i.e. in the new programming period 2021-2027, which is currently being programmed, to provide for generous funds for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35053	The next replica of respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35054	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, by about 2025, about 2 billion people shouldn't have enough water for basic living needs, I speak at the world level. So one of the possible solutions is dealinizers using actually the sun as a source, somewhere around 20 liters are produced per panel of the size of one square. Do you think this is the solution we should actually bring to the context of the island talk, both in the water supply network and in the tendency to make islands as such self-sustainable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35055	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35056	Dear Representative Kujundzic, thank you for this comment. So, I think that dealinisators should also be taken as one of the possible options for solving the availability of drinking water on islands within the EU's specific thematic objective, that smart Europe, green Europe, so we also transfer operational programmes, smart and green Croatia, as well as smart and green and sustainable islands, there will be certain opportunities for local self-government to recognise this possibility and where possible solve its problem both in this way and with dealinisators. Such a possibility will be from EU funds in a new period, so we expect that kind of project as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35057	The next replica is the respected representative of the Krona Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35058	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Well, here we are before us, as you know, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act, which, in my opinion, significantly improves the existing Island Law, especially in this section relating to the composition of an island council which is one of the operating bodies that can certainly be more effective. My question will be the following content, perhaps moving away from the text itself, but it is also important because of the interests of the islanders themselves. Can you tell us how much national and EU funds the Government of the Republic has invested in linking the island, i.e. building or reconstructing port infrastructures on islands in the past 4 years, which is one way to keep life on those islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35059	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35060	Dear Representative Katičić, I thank you for asking. So the government of the Republic of Croatia has still invested significant funds, both from the state budget and from EU funds in a better and better integration of the Adriatic and island itself with the mainland. What is important in port and fishing infrastructure, more than 111 million kuna has been invested from the national budget over the past period, and when we talk about the reconstruction, modernisation or upgrade of port infrastructure, from EU funds, we are talking about almost 1 billion kuna here. The new large investment wave plans to continue with new improved funding opportunities, and there are plans by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the context and construction of new ports, reconstruction, relocation of inadequate travel or ferry ports, establishment of rail and road connections with the hinterland, construction of port access infrastructure, as part of the green approach to maritime transport, but of course new potential investments in the form of fleet renewal,... or infrastructure upgrades. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35061	The next replica is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35062	Dear Minister, in Art. The 33nd century 2 states that the water service provider is obliged to deliver water to settlements on islands. I believe that because of the lack of infrastructure in certain islands, it is not possible to define it in this way but should oblige suppliers to deliver water to the entities referred to in Article 1 of the same article. Also, I think you'd be from Art. 33a century 2 was to be expelled from the formulation that the ministry would encourage the costs of transporting water to islands, depending on the possibilities and the means provided for in this purpose in the state budget, but that the law would oblige the ministry to settle all costs unconditionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35063	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35064	As we have initially proposed amendments to the law and mentioned, the main amendments to the law are linked to the introduction of the provisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, where the quantities of water increase from 45 cc's to 85 cc's per island itself. So, a significant increase. What is important is that everything is regulated in this article and we think that this includes what is necessary for the islanders themselves. This certainly applies to those who do not have access to the public water supply network, but where water is brought by tankers or hydrogens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35065	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35066	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, my question will refer to the form or technical matters of this law. We often have amendments and additions to the laws that are in this assembly, where compliance with the directive is discussed. These amendments and additions to the Islands Act, among other things, we have reason to comply with the 2 laws, is about the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia and it is about the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Development Management of the Republic of Croatia. All three laws are of your jurisdiction. These two laws were even passed before or at the same time as the Island Law. In the debate when the Island Act was in 2018, the debate pointed to the fact that some things could not be done because in other regulations it was otherwise defined. So we also have legislation that is required to be harmonised when it comes to the government and continues to come to the assembly of other regulations from different ministries, but this is about harmonisation within your own ministry. What's this about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35067	Dear representative Tramišak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35068	Thank you. Dear MPs, I'll give you a brief answer. So, the truth has been pointed out in my opening address that this law also complies with other regulations and the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Development Management, but also with the law of the second Ministry, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Law on Public Road Transport and, of course, the Law on Regional Development of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds. There are certain provisions that could have been self-existed, but for the sake of better integration with the Strategic Planning and Development Management System Act, we have decided to make those amendments, or as we have mentioned, one greater role for coastal Eastern counties to implement the policies of integrated island development. So the law stipulates that island development plans must be recognised in plans to develop the county. That's one more quality way to connect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35069	The next replica is the respected representative of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35070	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the Law on Islands, which entered into force in December 2018, and this upgrade itself is today, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Island Act, still the Government of the Republic of Croatia systematically and targeted precisely at implementing the policy of improving, promoting sustainable development of Croatian islands for the benefit of the island population. What I'm curious about is how much you can tell in the next financial perspective of '21-17. provide EU funds for the development of the island and which are key areas just planned in developing the concept of smart and sustainable islands in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35071	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35072	Dear Representative Baricevic, I thank you for asking. So, from the EU funds in the new programming period, it is true that you mentioned that smart and sustainable islands are recognised as one of the priorities, and this is also defined by the recently adopted National Development Strategy by 2030. We have already touched on the issues of this issue of the most important, which is the availability of public water supply. Thus, a number of such projects will certainly be identified during the new programming period. We have received data on the value of more than billions of kunas of potential projects to be financed in this context. For all other projects, measures and activities to be carried out on islands, programming is currently under way along with regional co-ordinators of coastal island counties to submit their proposals to the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35073	The Republic has a respected representative, Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35074	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I am one of those who was not born on the island and lived on the island, and I know what troubles and torments have plagued people living on islands. I strongly support these amendments and amendments to the law, and I certainly don't think any government has invested as much money in the islands as this is all about equating life on islands with life on land. And my question to you, I'll just mention two things. It means investing in water subsidies and in connections to the island land, because today you can actually come from the island to the mainland whenever you want and at what time you want, and I am when I come from the island to the city playing all the taps in the house just to hear the sound of the water as it is Then how hard it was to live without water. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35075	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35076	Here I can only thank you here for the comment and reiterate that, in the 2016-2020 term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested more than 6 billion kunas from the state budget precisely for the islands and I am not talking here about the sources of EU funding but precisely national sources of funding, thus showing how much attention it pays to the quality of life on the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35077	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35078	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, and you personally make it clear how balanced regional development is being taken into account. And these indicators that you have stated that over 7,200 islanders have so far used support for subsidized water suggests that the measure that the government has defined has been affected. You pointed out the billions of kuna that the government has invested so far in the islands, if you can explain to Croatian citizens once again what it means that people don't understand what billions are, what does this mean for access to ports, water, roads, island development? If we had secured a better infrastructure, the possibility for young people to stay on islands and also a European perspective because we see that a large financial envelope awaits us from which you have now announced that there are even a billion kunas of potential projects for the development of the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35079	Minister Tramišak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35080	Dear Representative Pavić, therefore you yourself have highlighted some of the examples that are important for quality life and standard of life on the islands themselves. There are these investments in water supply, in social activities, in public services, here we can talk about the construction of kindergartens, unclassified roads, public lighting, and other infrastructures such as various social homes, halls, beach arrangements and everything that is really important in the context of and small local infrastructure that makes a more comfortable and quality life for residents. It is also in these directions that we have a series of measures and activities carried out by only the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as other resolution ministries, seas, transport and infrastructure, economy, sustainable development, so all those who carry out certain activities and measures precisely designed for the island's population.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35081	The next replica of the respected representatives of Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35082	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. It is important to point out once again that these amendments and additions to the laws actually acquire the rights of the island's population to expand, upgrade and modernise to improve life on islands. You said it, but I think it should be pointed out one more time, that no one will lose anything. What is particularly important is that you have, in fact, placed these amendments and the additions to the exercise of the right to preferential transportation of islanders and to persons with disabilities in the possibility of actually applying certain provisions of the law which have not been valid so far. So of course we will support these amendments and the additions to the law but I think it was important to stress that once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35083	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35084	Dear Representative Bujevic, you mentioned that these amendments to the law, the rights acquired, of course, are extended, processed, updated and thus give greater opportunities and tools to the government of the Republic of Croatia to develop new measures. When you mention free island transport, it is important to mention that more than 30 million € per year is used by the Ministry of Regional Development for this very purpose and to ensure free transport for children up to 8 years old, students, students, pensioners, persons with disabilities, so all specific categories and groups of inhabitants who have this need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35085	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35086	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Tramišak, so you said that so far we have invested 6 billion kunas from the budget and 7 billion from EU funds, so 13 billion is quite a lot of money, but we are still talking today in 2021 about whether we will increase from 45 to 85 m3 per capita, so not all island residents have access to the water supply. So when are we finally gonna have that? With these big funds, don't you mistake those priorities a little bit? You said now that we're going to invest money, when will it be enough to have a water line to every island? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35087	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35088	It is important to mention once again that more than 60 water-communal infrastructure projects are worth more than 20 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia. So, very many areas of the Republic of Croatia that should have solved this particular problem. In the islands itself, we're talking about 13 different projects that aren't all agglomerations and water supplies, 6 and 1.6 billion kunas. So demanding and complex projects that are in the process of resolution and will definitely need another future period in order to solve this more quality and long-term. Simply great needs were encountered in the Republic of Croatia in 2014 and then to solve all problems, it should also be a certain period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35089	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35090	Dear Vice President, Minister. I'm one of those who, by definition, were islanders, say that somewhere around 180 and a few days should be minimum on islands so as to admit that by definition we're islanders. Thank you for this understanding and it is well 85 m3 because if we know that and the categorization of tourism 2, 3, 4 etc. The star in private apartments must also have some tolerance, so the harmonisation of this law is very important that it can be recognised on such small islands that it can deal with tourism. Someone used to mention dealinizers, the island of Susak nearly 10 years ago, a desalinisator still about € 4.5.5 million for some 150 inhabitants, the island of the Union just finished desalining for 50 inhabitants. Here's just the proof as much as this price and it's working on dealinizers and similar projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35091	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ma'am. Minister. Now let's go. Here you go, answer me. [[Traditionary Tramišak: Dear Representative Cappelli...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35092	Here I thank you only for your comment, once again I would mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is here, and this shows that it takes care of islands, islands and quality living standards on the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35093	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the debate, would the committee's rapporteurs like to take a word? No, yes, please, dear Marko Pavić, President of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35094	Thank you very much, Your Honors Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant. We also discussed the amendments to this law on the parent board, the EU Regional Development Committee and funds, a key incentive, as the minister pointed out was to comply with the government's regulation, where an increased amount of subsidized water from 45 to 85 m3, also took advantage of the opportunity to comply with several laws, I believe that in the debate we will discuss all this in detail. What he would say was that we unanimously concluded that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act was adopted, and that all objections, proposals and opinions made in the debate would be addressed to the Proposer in order to draw up a final proposal. In line with the above, the Committee has reached such a conclusion, and I believe that through the debate we will further enrich and perhaps some of the proposals that will be seen in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35095	Thank you very much. We now move on to the debate and the first, on behalf of the club of representatives and first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, will speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35096	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Islands in first reading are a good opportunity to really discuss this, these amendments and the law itself, that this policy towards Croatian islands will get even more full implementation than it has ever been. But to get to that law, I'm going to look back a little bit on the history of politics towards Croatian islands because I think they deserve it, we don't often have a chance to talk about islands, we've always discussed the report on law enforcement, but now it goes to the constituency board and we accept it, and we don't know this effect of the law itself, more or less all, but here's the opportunity for us to talk about islands at least once because it's worth the space of the Republic, 1244 islands, of which 78 larger islands, 524 islands and 642 rocks. I think in the history of Croatian politics this may be one of the most successful, let's call it, the island policies that marked the unity of all policy options to ensure the normal development and survival of life in these areas. And since '95. when a center was established for islands that later became administrative in 2000, and it was one of those embryos that was later in '99. The first Law on Islands was clearly intended to indicate that this assisted space should be designed policy and that it must have continuity so that people could live there, survive, but that they could, after a certain time, return to that space. I think it worked, that it was true and during governments that weren't HDZ, which led by the SDP had one continuity, and I think we all managed to come up with the policies that we were supposed to have today. And that is why perhaps one message to colleagues, when we talk about "The Slavonia Project" or tomorrow about a project that should be talked about the area of Zagorje Kotar and Gorski Kotar, or those areas which we believe are not sufficiently developed, is important that the moment of community and support of such policies is important because it results in the long term. The moment the continuity disappears, when a certain policy ceases, that's when problems arise. When we talk about our islands, it is clear that we have another most developed, let's say, and the most diversified islands in the Mediterranean that have allowed us our territorial borders at sea, and the IGP itself is clearly saying that this is the same value as the territory, but also what lives on it, and these are our islanders who have managed to preserve life there, design it and from year to year can live, let's say, better. Of course every island isn't the same. We've got 49 JLS on the islands, excuse me 59, and there's eight of them on the mainland. And with those eight on land that have these little islands we have a lot of, let's say, and problems. Of course, there are some in the islands that have their own small islands such as Mali Losinj, and of course they always need to be cared for because they are the administrative center and often can be little and forgotten. It needs to be corrected and it's the law that ordered it and there's its value. In those 25 years. from the island center and 22 from the island administration, it is clear that billions and billions of kuna are invested, each report shows that these figures are large. The report for 2019 speaks of over 2 billion kunas invested in that space by all entities who can, when we speak from the state level, regional level and it's good that we have such a report that can then show this, there's nothing to hide or there's nothing to hide if there's an island. What's more important to emphasize? That this meaningful policy had, I say since 2000, so to this day several of their activities that needed that policy towards the islands made it possible to live there. We have always had traffic connections in the first place, so we have to solve the arrival of the island, these are ports, land ports, then the road and, of course, if we had the possibility of a helipad, if we had the possibility of 3 airports, we have in Losinj, in Brac, in Krk, to ensure through this traffic connection smooth, smooth traffic towards islands and on the side of the island towards the mainland. After that, we decided that we had to do social infrastructure that is equally important, that on every big island, but even smaller if possible, we have a school, we have a kindergarten, we have a home for the elderly, we have a home of health, we have all those opportunities that have every environment in the continental part of the Republic, and I think that's been filled in in these last 20 years, that we have all of these more or less. After that, we also devoted ourselves to the municipal infrastructure because it was clear that without what we are most talking about today, without a water supply, there is no development of tourism that is, let's say, the most important economic branch that gives these islands both capital and opportunities to develop, but also that citizens. islanders can live on these islands. After that, it was clear that when we put it together that 132,000 people on those islands could then meet most of their needs. We can never do everything and part of the needs must be met on land, and then we do it in our county centers in 7 coastal counties. When we talk about this law, it should be a little more upgrade to what I've been saying so far because I think the problem of infrastructure is being solved and that it is no longer unknown, given that we are in the EU and that the funds provide a generous means of solving the agglomerations that have now become a reality and that through these huge investments that reach billions of kunas, especially in large islands, we really provide every resident and every household with a combination to the water supply system and also to the drain system. And this increase from 45 to 85 cubic metres tells us that we understand what the islanders say especially on small islands. And that's why I stood up to this attempt by a fellow colleague to make a populist attempt to give people what they need. And that's water regardless of what we have built on these small islands is our problem that we don't have a pipe to these islands. We don't have land-based pipes through the sea so that we can supply them in this way, not with hydrogen, or when we talk about large islands that can have some smaller settlements to which the infrastructure is not built, so that they do so by car-cistered i.e.. through firefighters or some operators who report to the competition then they do so for these water supply companies. That's where I want to say what I used to think. That neither those people in these waters should be freed from the responsibilities that they should be and who are responsible for ensuring every resident and every household supply. And if it wasn't for the state and it wasn't for its 11 million kuna subsidy, it would be a problem in those areas that have finished infrastructure, but they don't have a water supply. That's what I say on small islands like Kapre, Žirje, etc., Drvenik is doing the hydrogen and it's an established system, but on larger islands it's what the tanks do as on Peljesac peninsula. We have in the past 20 years brought together one Lastovo and Mljet who are very far into regional waterways like NPKLM. He's trying to do it. I mean, Lošinj when we talk about the island of the Union, etc., but it's really expensive projects. If only the Zadar Islands were all from Premuda, Silba, Oliba, etc., Zenica would sleep on the water from the mainland, these are really great amounts. So we will certainly use this subsidy to help the water lines, but of course, with their obligation to think about how we will deal with it permanently in the future, given that we have European funds on the other side as aid. We are talking here about the planning system, I welcome this to raise this part of the commitment from local self-government to regional level, to establish a better planning system, but what I want to say in my debate is that I noticed that in Article 37, it is not mentioned in these amendments and additions, and I would ask that, until the second reading and island employers are dealt with in the same way because I think it is missed if it is possible for them to agree to these regional development laws and the strategic planning system, and that they are not then in a situation where this measure is being found on a public call, and then we create a problem and we say we can't give it because we haven't harmonised everything. Please think about it until the second reading. Here's a thank you, second in, we support it as a club of these changes and additions to the island laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35097	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. State Secretary, respected, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Island Law aims to improve the living conditions of the island's population and business of island operators. This mainly refers to privileged public island road transport, the supply of health-ready water for human consumption at the price that is the same for the user in the place from which the water is delivered and the production and placement of the original island products should also be promoted and the Ministry of the Programme is a European, Croatian island product. Therefore, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which in Article 174(3) defines islands as one of the regions exposed to serious and lasting natural or demographic difficulties, the EU aims to reduce differences in the level of development between the different regions and the region's lagging behind. And while this applies not only to islands but also to other regions, as I will remind you that just Slavonian counties have a smaller GDP per capita than all call from the sea, Dalmatian, coastal counties of Istria via Primorje-goranska, Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska to Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, all these counties have more GDP per capita than the Slavonian County. Efforts to equate living conditions on land-based islands include measures that I will not repeat because they generally go to preserve jobs and ensure a quality standard of living at the level of one who is also in these other places. However, despite the measures and significantly, the significant resources invested by the number of passengers on islands in public line transport from year to year are increasing, and on the other hand the funds and investments invested are increasing from year to year. 2018. we heard the signs increased 22% compared to 2017, and 2019 increased by 43% compared to 2018. So if we're talking absolute amounts, it was $1.87 billion in 2018, and 2019. 2.59 billion kunas are also growing accordingly and this share of EU grants has reached 1.46 billion kuna in 2019. In this proposal, much refers to the amount of water for human consumption at a subsidized price, and that amount of water grows from 43m3 to 85m3 water per member per island, meaning that for a four-member family, there are, for example, 340 cubic metres per year and 28 cubic metres at the subsidized price. And it's nice to increase it, there's nothing controversial about it, but now I have to ask one question. What is the average water consumption per capita in Croatia? So EUROSTAT says that the average consumption of a four-member family in Croatia is monthly 15 cubic metres of water or 3.8 cubic meters per household member, and annually it is 46 m3 per capita. We talk all the time about sustainable development, energy savings, rational use of resources, etc., and the ministry is now raising from pure peace almost double the amount of water available to our islanders at the subsidized price. And let's face it, there's no one against it, but let's call things by their real name. We all know that tourism and agriculture are fundamental economic activities on islands, so in principle, if we view it that way, it is one indirect measure of support for an economic branch, specifically tourism. And I really have to ask a question, what about continental tourism? Why do we not have any more indirect support for continental tourism that we are developing in Slavonia? We all know that far more must be invested in continental tourism than in one that goes according to the concept of the sun and the sea. Why not renters in Slavonia and Baranja get some indirect support like these? What about agricultural production? Why don't we have some extra support to stimulate our farmers to grow that sugar beet so that sugars have enough quality raw materials so that we don't have to close two sugars but to work all three or at least two? So we have surpluses in basic war cultures like wheat, corn, but there's no processing capacity. And where we have processing facilities like sugars, there's no raw materials because farmers don't pay to grow sugar tails. So no one really minds helping the island's inhabitants, but they should call things a real name, so then one indirect support for economic activity in this case tourism or agriculture on the islands is portraying it as a alignment with the legal provisions because it is not in principle. It is also a little unclear why this provision in question is limited to the supply of water to vessels, waterways or auto-cisteries, and here's what counterpart Nadj asked, means that there is some other way to ensure a quality constant supply of drinking water that could be co-financed by EU funds and what is done in that field. Here is another question that has drawn attention to me this way, which refers to the list of islands that are attached to the Island Act. Little school is there, and the Great School is gone, how did we disappear an island? Who was doing the list? Is the list incorrect or does this indicate other things such as regulating the sea border with neighbouring BiH without the knowledge of HS? So where did one whole island go, even if it was a rock or a hill, but it's an island, it's a territory of the Republic that's not listed? I guess the Republic of Croatia has a list of all islands or there have been changes that neither the Croatian public nor the HS have passed and discussed and arranged here in HS. There is one more thing that has attracted my attention, and it is related to the Croatian island product. Among other things, local self-government units, related to joint events that contribute to the achievement of the objectives, which would be some fairs, events, conferences, workshops, workshops, seminars, promotional information programmes on the Croatian island product programme. So they have the right to report units of local and regional self-government, public institutions, associations, cooperatives, Alliance of Associations, Association and Tourist Communities, etc., as defined, and without clearly formulated and certain objectives, it can mean a lot and then we may be left with some positive effect, and indigenous products, island products are something to be invested in and yet a little more concrete goals should be set. In principle, there is another issue that arises and concerns about one negligent island where there is no agricultural land because three quarters of the island can sell its owner without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the conditions of reciprocity that are normally necessary for other real estate, agricultural land, and then there is no precise category of small islands, although they are covered by legal provisions that regulate the right of first purchase in the sale of real estate, which opens up a space for manipulation. I will only give you one example, a New York ad from last year where the entire island is sold for a price of 1 million and 200 thousand euros. A bit of a surprise that attitude towards our islands, which we all find extremely important, we all think is a wealth of the Republic of Croatia and we all agree, and so do we from the Homeland Movement, that this is how the islands should be treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35099	The next Club of Representatives will be the Bridge in the name of which the MPs Kujundzic and Bulj will share the time, and first of all, the respected representative Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35100	I would like to thank the President, Mr Reiner, the Honorable Secretary, Mr Bukarica, the Honorable Secretary of State and Assistant, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us, the Island Act, which immediately enters the eye, is the subsidized price of water on the islands provided for by this law, normally with a water supply network, is certainly one form of necessity and on the other hand is one shameful indicator of failure and carelessness for the island population throughout the years. Equally, the price of water in Dalmatia does not enter the already questionable quality of the same enormously high. Even one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia with losses greater than 70% in the water supply network both today and in all years until today. Of course all this ends up being paid by the end consumer. It is certainly not the inhabitants who are guilty of neglect and inaction, both in the context of consumption and, of course, in the context of the infrastructure situation. The supply of water, hydrogen and auto-cisteries is legally defined as high-quality and healthy, but who else believes in the healthy, drinking water that we consume in Croatia and what are the parameters to measure this quality of water? So look at the number of cancer patients, look at the number of infertile couples. Are we going to put human health in the category by which we will judge the quality of the water delivered and what results will we then get? Do we even have defined parameters of that quality and who controls it and how often? In the context of Art. In 19th of this bill, I suggest you appoint Mr. Lovre Kuščević as chief island coordinator. With Lovre methods you will save for sure in time, procedures, legal and sublegal regulations, plans and programmes, especially in island referendum initiatives. In the context of Art. 31. and the right to free legal transportation certainly tells you bravo and commendable, but the rural part of Dalmatia, which is about the same infrastructure and population standard as our islands, does not deserve the same access in terms and transportation of pupils, mainly children and persons with disabilities as all those who are their... Or will we wait another decade to be specific and how would we care for each individual existence equally and in the same way? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we want to be concrete and live long ago I don't know whose fault, dead islands and rural part of Dalmatia, we have what to do and we can be very specific today in this bill. So let's rewrite those who have succeeded when we overwrite every sentence from the paper that lands from Brussels to our Zagreb. For the island area and rural parts of Dalmatia that have a huge rate of depopulation, we bring them back to life with a kind of subsidized regional VAT rate that will be lower than the economic strong centres that we can call strong in Croatia. Likewise, we reduce the profit tax rate for all economic operators located in these areas because only a reasonable strategy and a life attractive can we inhale a new life with islands and, of course, Zagori. How much is your goal, as far as it's not, if we look at it through the duration of the public debate, I'm afraid we'll come to a terrible conclusion. I can ask you questions about the transport connection of the island to the mainland, as well as the number of ferry lines, specifically for Vis, two daily, more than 2 hours of driving in one direction. I can also ask you a question of health offers and protection and a question of helipads on islands and the number of the same, but I won't. You know everything and you can do everything and I won't mention the problems or the construction zones and the legislative definitions of the same in the islands. I'm also not going to mention the price of transportation and waste disposal on the islands themselves. You know everything, people have chosen you, you work and be specific and while you're concrete, think about desalinating water on islands and the possibilities of what's real and that's the island's self-sustainability. And lastly, in case you were to appoint Mr. Kuštević as co-ordinator, please kindly bypass at least my property province. He'll continue his colleague Bulj, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35101	Now will be continued by Representative Bulj, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35102	Thank you very much. This survey of regulations and what we are talking about on the island, about islands, I would first welcome all islanders who were mostly exploited in a way that weighed with their concessions, such as in Brač, Zlatni rat, where people are left behind and left to these kind of agreements such as in the Split-Dalmatia County between Kerum and Kerum's party and HDZ because it simply stands with their maritime well-being that should be served primarily by the islanders. However, when it comes to islands, then it is very important that this importance is mentioned, it means water supply and, of course, this increase in subsidies does not mean much if we do not preserve our resources and our water. So I ask you, you, where do these waters come from, when the Law on the Dalmatian Zagora will be collected this year, when about us who have the most expensive water, what has been brought to this end, is that now in Sinj 8 Kuna, 8 Kuna will be gathered together this year, 8 Kuna is more expensive water by cubicity than in other parts, for what are the reasons? So, first of all, we have to look at the islands as our potential, invest in them, but we can't create from, from certain areas on land islands, forgotten islands, and that it serves us only as an exploitation. We cannot exclude from the project system examples of Dalmatian Zagora, from Krka to Neretva. Only when you look at the river Krka, Zrmanja where the islands are fed, the river Cetina, and look at these areas as far as they're forgotten, how ecologically threatened, and how important they are with their potentials and in this case water and water supply where we should protect everyone as a basic human right that every man has a right to water, so in this rich area free water. Which has the benefits of the Dalmatian burn population, the most expensive water, the most sources and from these parts we have the most and energy, here's only the river Cetina 40% of the hydropower. Of course we triangulate on islands to think about the survival of humans. Children's kindergartens are mentioned, until 2020. We, according to the Council of Europe in Barcelona, were held in 2000. By 2020 they had to have 90 % of children from 3 to 6 g. children's kindergarten as an educational institution does it mean a lot to them later, it's not in Croatia. I would once again ask the question, why are islands created on land, in the back of Dalmatia, which is why this area is forgotten, we have a demographic decline, when we have huge potential and agricultural and water resources, we have tourism potential, we have everything the triba has? E, but when it comes to Dalmatian Zagora, when we have a problem of agglomeration where they blame Croatian water, where the local water supply, where the local government is guilty, is all to blame, where 150 million kunas of price has been transferred than in the competition, then for Sinj it cannot protect the river from where it feeds, I repeat, Hvar, Brac, Solta, the Makarska coast, now we have a problem with the Adriatic, behind every rain we have clouded water in the largest county. So half of Dalmatia is powered by Cetina, but when the Triba Sinju helps to agglomerate i.e. I call upon everyone here from these areas of the island to raise their voice in the protection of Cetina and to make agglomerations in cities and in the Dalmatian mountains because they drink that water. I invite you to raise your voice, it's the same for Zrmanja, it's the same for Krka. But on the Vir, the same amount of transfer is paid, I am pleased, but for Cetina and the protection of that drinking resource is not given, nor is the kuna given, but is wised, it provokes the area that has been left behind and left to itself. That's why I expect the Dalmatian Zagora Act. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35103	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35104	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. We have before us amendments and additions to the Island Act. This is a law adopted in 2018. And I'll sort of lead the debate into three groups. First, these amendments and additions relate to the harmonisation of certain provisions of the Law on Islands in relation to the legal framework governing strategic planning and management of the development of the Republic of Croatia, it is the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. So what we have to say in the debate is this, we have a lot of cases when our laws are mutually incompatible with different resolutions. We have a lot of cases when we agree with EU directives whether we have miswritten or mistranslated or wrongly. We therefore have part of the amendment here and the addition of this law concerns compliance with the provisions of the Law on Islands with the Regional Development Act of the Republic of Croatia, which came from 2014 and the last amendment was to the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia from 2017. What exactly am I trying to say? It would be good if one ministry had its own regulations to see each other, if certain administrations within the Ministry were not an island for themselves, if they were to see, or if they were to see where the problem is, especially if there was some discussion about the problem, and these problems were to be seen to one another, and then there was no. I don't think the laws are ideal, I don't think they're carved into stone, I think they really do, and when they live in real life when you see what problems come with change and addition, but it's very unusual, it's not really this often, but okay, the Resort Ministry has told people my we have regulations and we still can't bring sublegal acts. That's where I connect to another topic that I think is very important in this group is sublegal acts. More and more we meet the law and it is not a small law, so it is not the law of 35 articles but also the laws that have more articles, a series of sublaws, regulations, regulations that are being passed. It seems to me that somehow it should really be reduced a little bit and seen because then you in one law when you want to tie yourself to the islands or when you want to spend something you have a terrible lot of trouble when you see all the regulations, all the regulations and all the other things you see, but it has become common practice is not from this convocation of the Parliament or of this government, it is, therefore, already in the last term, from the law or from the proposal that we get, which you do not implement directly but you have to bring a number of other things. The fact is, there's a lot of rules that have been passed before, so you're changing and supplementing, but we're where we are. Another topic I want to say about, you are actually introducing into this law, or you are harmonising with some of the regulations that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, transport, where, where it is related to transport, is from the subsidisation of transport, and that is the part where you agree and it is related to this first, when the laws of mutually different ministries must agree not to be a dilemma which the law will apply. So this is the first topic and the regulation that has already been passed, which is related to water, and a lot of discussion about water, so that regulation has already been adopted in 2020, we have it in force, we have it in place, now that it, according to how our legislation provides, is being built into this, through this amendment and the addition of the law, so there is no need for an additional regulation anymore, it can be tied to the debate on Friday, when we had and there is another ministry that thinks that it is much better to adopt regulations and avoid Parliament. You here have something that you really do according to all of that, the way our legislation is. What, as soon as any law comes, and related to the islands or the report, it, of course, challenges our debate. And there are always parliamentary representatives who are either from the area or live on an island or live on an island or want to live on an island, as well as the secretary of state and I come from one part of Croatia where there is no island. So we come from another part of Croatia, but I think Croatia has one great value, and the great value is islands. Croatia, not to forget, there are 1244 islands, of which they are defined areas greater than a kilometer, so we have islands that are less than a kilometer and then we have rocks and now that you see it all together, we see that we have 78 islands, 524 islands and 642 rocks, which is from the aspect of the protection of natural heritage, natural values, Croatia is really very handsome, convenient and on that map, and it is convenient and when you are also a nautical and you have the opportunity to visit, but that is the period when we visit, the period when the sun is, when everything is nice, when you are on an annual vacation, and on the islands of people live for 12 months, and live all the time and from the inhabited islands, that is the data that we have, and now everything depends on, we will see this list of the population, which will show because of people living between 48 and 66, as well as you take out of the small population. These are convenient data, it is convenient so it is convenient to see on the map of Croatia these islands, islets, rocks, hot data where we are now talking about how many inhabited or uninhabited. We who come, who are not from there, and we come to the islands in another period, I have had the opportunity to be on one of our larger islands, I was, I was supposed to be one day, and I stayed longer, it's Vis because it was time, so it was a late winter, early spring, and it didn't matter. So I stayed there some 3, 4 days longer because it couldn't be on land and then you have a feeling what that means. So, what it means, and we always need to think about what sustainable development of the island means. We are determined to discuss islands, plan, invest, allow sustainable development of the island. This means that people living on islands should actually have access to municipal, educational, health, social, cultural, sports, entrepreneurial, tourism and any other service such as public service, as well as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And today when we ask ourselves that question, we know that it's simply not possible at all times. I always advocate rational solutions. You know, you have those irrational solutions that I've had a chance to see, which always comes to you in a period of, say, some choices, now we won't have a choice for a while, so then I had a chance to see one solution, let's put the islands together by the tunnels. And it was quite enough both experts and respected, I don't want to degrade any of that solution, but let's see what that means. How is that possible? So are we going to connect the islands with the tunnels between then? Where do we connect to land? What is it, how many cars are going to pass, how are you going to keep it, how much is it, what time can you do it? I've had a chance to see, let's connect the islands to the bridges. Those islands where it was possible to connect the bridges, it seems to me that we did. And those bridges in terms of maintenance are, these bridges that actually go above the sea, given the salinity and everything else, you maintain when you start, say, the Krk-land bridge, you start painting it on one side, and when you're done on that side, you can call because you have to keep, regardless of all possible coatings and other. What exactly am I trying to say? These amendments and additions to this law are, in principle, in compliance with the laws of the ministry's jurisdiction with each other, and we have improvements that are related to planning, but for that I will use that 5-minute debate. As soon as the topic of the island is, they are really challenging with us and it is always, always, to me these discussions, especially reports when we have, interesting, Croatia has, defined and said the islands are our value. The islands are not only of natural value we want to enable people on islands to live politely. We'll never make that happen because they're just on the islands, and that's why they're in another situation, but I'm reading these changes and additions to the law in Let's make this a better situation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35105	The next Club of Representatives will be one of the Croatian sovereigns, and Croatia's respected representative Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35106	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, we are talking about this Law on Islands, I listened to Mrak Taritaš's colleague, and I have not been able to capture the numbers of the island, what I know in the Adriatic Sea has 1233 islands, islands and rocks, and from that there are 1185 in Croatia, islands and rocks, in other words 48 wastes in all other states of the Adriatic, Slovenia, Italy, BiH, Montenegro and Albania. So, we are one of the most developed countries, the most divorced pardons, the most divorced countries in the world, the coefficient of divorce is as much as 11,.../incomprehensible/... divide it really in the length of coast 5835 km from Cape Kamenjak to, from the actual mouth of Savudrija to Cape Ostrno. That's about 527 kilometers, here's a little geography for the introduction. We are talking about the Law on Islands and we are talking about the water supply of how this law will facilitate or subsidize water on Croatian islands. And I'm at a stop before or after the explanation of the respected secretary of state showed one photograph, and I'm going to show it again here by my colleague, Bauk, I'm sure he knows what this is, so it's a fantasticly large building, monumental on the island of Brač in Supetar, and it's a building built by Vodavod Brač. Here I find it hard to tell how many squares this building has, but there are thousands of squares, and the price is at least what it says on the portals of 28 million kuna, and it's supposed to be around 15 million kuna, but due to the purchase of the price of the works is now at 28 probably going to be more. And now it's not a problem that this building is for example. What I know in Zagreb, there is probably a need for something like this in Zagreb, but I believe that for a small Brac that has 13 thousand inhabitants such a monumental building is not necessary. So it's bigger than any municipal building, a court building in Brac, actually this is going to be one of the largest building on the island of Brac, of course it's not about the hotel, but it's about a building where it's probably going to take a couple of 10-seat HDZs tomorrow to fill all possible offices in this building. My colleague, Boric, called me something when I mentioned this, the director of the marriage plumbing is HDZ, and that's legitimate and that's true, but that's what you should say. As is the director of the water pipeline in Sibenik, HNS, who is in coalition with HDZ. And why do I mention Sibenik? Because on the island of Capri, the price of water has accumulated if you know how many, Caprius near Sibenik, 10 times, 10 times. So when Capri's resident wants to order water or get water delivered by a plumber, he pays 10 times more than he paid and 10 times more than the Sibeniks who live on land pay. Bravo. Is that what we want with this bill? I'll talk about Bratch again. So, it wouldn't be controversial if this building had the resources to finance this building, but it doesn't. So there's no money and now there's talk, whisper and work to raise the price of water for the Bračana, not to reduce or subsidize. Not because it's a water line, we've got water losses or because I don't know what the water supply sites have run out of water, but because the company of Brač or Vodavod Brač has run out of money because of the construction of this monumental building. So, respected secretary of state these are the problems that need to be solved, this harmonisation is actually not bad in principle, but if you want to help people on the ground, let's solve the people living on Croatian islands and let's do this problem again I will corruption or negligence or intransparent spending of public money that is obvious and large.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35107	The next Club of Representatives will be the green-left bloc, and time will be shared by respected representatives Bencic and Boric. First respected representative Bencic, is there, there is no hope that he will show up not to lose his right to speak, and then the first one will speak to a respected representative, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35108	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues here today have started talking about how important it is to subsidise the supply of drinking water to the islands and of course it is necessary to ensure a more uniform, uniformer, if we cannot level with those on land and to keep on one side people on the islands, but also to maintain sustainable development. But the question is, is the approach in terms of increasing the amount of water at the subsidized price and is it self-sustainable? There were also some questions from colleagues here, which means compared to the amount of cubic metres of water compared to Eurostat. But what we are more interested in here is how much this approach in terms of increasing the amount of water itself is sustainable in such a way that today we have not heard from the minister what are the problems that further lead to the problem of insurance i.e. I would also say circulatory economies and in a way of sustainability, which is at the meetings of different experts, as well as island chiefs and civil society associations, very often there are problems that we have not heard a word about today. One of them is certainly related to the possible withdrawal of funds from the EU, and these are problems in any procedure and design of land books, unresolved property-legal relations and water supply and disposal projects, for this reason they stand in place. So we can't develop something on one side if we still know what our situation is with our land books and our islands. All islanders point out that one of the biggest problems is outdated and poor infrastructure and great losses of water in the distribution network. The numbers range from incredible 50 to 80% loss. So we're talking about subsidies and on the other hand we have an outdated infrastructure, right where we have it. In addition, several Commissioners also spoke about the problem of so-called the so-called problem. The market prices of water, and that's where you have like in Kalia, you have the waters of Zadar but then you have the island way and so you have some competence about the price of water. There were suggestions here and there may have been less talk about desalinization, here's Mr. Cappelli talking about it but as one of the models especially for those smaller islands because we know very well that the other thing in the junk is to look for new water sources that aren't even big, but the deficiencies are still on one side, desalinization, price problem, pollution that releases desalinization plants and energy they consume. Marine water is also the habitat, larvae and tiny organisms are the most endangered in the poorly designed vacuum desalination device, and it is said experts, from the Rijeka University, who are particularly concerned with the topic. I'm gonna get back to you on the desalination itself, and now I'm gonna give my colleague Bencic some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35109	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35110	I thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian islands could certainly be an example of establishing self-sustainable communities and what we are constantly talking about here as part of the green plan, which is also a circular economy and sustainable tourism, energy self-sufficiency and a zero waste policy or 0 waste policy. In short, islands could actually be the first to enter post-carbon digital society to ensure a high quality of life for their inhabitants, but also to preserve resources for future generations. Instead, our islands have no waste disposal system, so we still find a number of illegal dumps and the infrastructure that is planned for them is always planned at the population level, so the island's permanent inhabitants, although of course the 3rd month. which have tourism, and we have pushed them into this mass tourism, the infrastructure is looking for capacities up to 3.4 times larger, then it seems particularly cynical to us when we here from the pay phone order to extend the tourist season to the whole year and the infrastructure they have is barely enough for them, let alone for an even bigger flow of tourists. What I see as another problem that we have here from land to life on the islands is in an approach based on the idea that right here in the Parliament or in the counties on land, will define what needs to be done and how it should be done for the islanders. This is a completely wrong approach for me because if anyone in this country has a comparative advantage, knowledge and skills of the need to establish a circular economy and sustainability, it is precisely an island because they have been forced through the centuries and developed their own concepts of self-sustainability from which we can learn here on land today. But the question of how much we invest in research, for example, in scientific research that would translate these concepts into today's context and combine with modern technology so that not only islanders, but we get concrete benefits from it. Therefore, our approach should not be to land projects and technologies on the islands but to develop and pilot such technologies and such projects with the islanders. I'll give you an example. So if we want smart islands, which we have in law, then we can't come with already implemented technologies in large cities and land them on an island and then we come up with absurd situations where once our island was offered technology, digital light management technology, right. I mean, as funny as that might be, it could be some kind of joke. But we didn't invest in developing, together with the islanders, for example, a system of digital navigation and landing, which is something they really need instead of a traffic lights management system. As someone who comes from the Green-Left bloc club, we certainly and absolutely support the energy sustainability of island communities, by transferring these communities to sustainable sources, renewable energy sources, but not by turning islands into a field for large investors who will transfer the logic of fossil fuel exploitation, paint green and transfer to the exploitation of limited spatial resources of islanders. So, if we're going to look for investors for mega-sun power plants on the islands, we're not actually going to do that for the islanders, we're going to take away their spatial resources. That's not the policy we should be supporting here. What we should support is exactly the opposite, which is that the islands are the first to pilot civil energy. So where we will secure on our existing private infrastructure and publicly install solar cells, connect citizens of energy producers into energy cooperatives so that they are the owners of their own energy infrastructure. The principle of investment in technology or any other projects that spend island resources should be the principle of ownership or minimal co-ownership by the island. So, for example, when it comes to desalining in the Union, then it was necessary to plan it, work and also train the local population to manage it once the team from engineering has left the Union, because it is those who will stay with that technology and give them co-ownership so that technology because then they will feel it as their own and take care of it as their own, and not as something that HEP has come up there or anyone, anyone else. So let's not forget when we're talking about technology and renewable energy sources that we've banned the islands from installing the windmill because they're rewarding the environment. On the other hand, for example, in Istria, we left them there without harming the environment. I think it should allow the islanders to decide whether they will have windmills or not. This is a question they definitely have to decide on and also what should be prescribed that the installation of the windmill is allowed only when co-owners are islanders and when it serves their needs and needs of their guests. So, horizontally throughout the system, we need to implement the principle that what is done on the islands should be done and if the use of local resources should also be in local co-ownership, and I'll talk about the details a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35111	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in essence other than harmonising with certain European directives or other regulations, in the essential part of this law, there is an improvement in the supply of water to those islands that are not connected to or have no water supply, and that is good because I am thinking about it in the past, too, if not for this speaker for a single TV contribution, it is possible for people living on such islands to prevent it, therefore, is now a popular word of discrimination that they cannot deal with certain activities because they are in a worse position than other people, whether in those islands that have water, water, or on land. And that's okay. Secondly, it seems to me that I have already told me that the Law on Islands was generally brought by consensus or by a large majority of votes, and with this also happened with the report on the Law on Islands that passed this business sieve and discussed it at the plenary session, it was my amendment to intervention. So, always, therefore, and I think that in this case we're acting, I'm not going to say outwardly but cross-borderly, so we're clear that this is the part of the Republic that demands and this is what the Constitution says special care and there's no major politicization on that subject. In 2012 at the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities Mr. Tolnauer began all of us sometimes a minority, and then I turned to Mr. Neven Mimica then Deputy Prime Minister, Nevena me islanders. In this case, therefore, as regards traffic connection, as regards certain specificities, we are in this assembly of minorities. There are colleagues Ahmetovic and I from the order of the SDP, colleagues Boris, Cappelli and colleagues Baričević, although I am someone and Bačić from HDZ, from other parties I currently have no memory of anyone but everyone was on the islands and that's not bad. It is something similar to what counterpart Davorko Vidovic wanted to be made for Sisak and Banija over this earthquake and the fact is that we know about many things that concern the end from which we come from what interests are and what good things are and we are discussing each other whether more money will be invested in one part or that part of Croatia. That's why it's important that there's money, and that the government has to be effective and good, but now it's a second, second topic. As far as this water supply is concerned, I would draw attention to the proposings, and I think I did it 10 years ago in a discussion of the same thing about the Island Act, and it concerns the specificity of Vis Island. It has its source, so it is not connected to the water supply from the land and there is no need for me to bring water from the land, but it is the very way to get to that water that can be usable more expensive. And unfortunately, they have certain financial costs where it would be good to put them in one part of this section with these islands that they do not have, which are not connected to the water line. Secondly, when I was getting ready for this debate, I called certain people I think can give me another big picture. And you know what they said this time, and they didn't say that before, the problem of availability or health care especially special protection. So, we on the most island which is one of the biggest now we're going to discuss whether it's Krk with a bridge or Cres with a lake, but it doesn't matter, so on Brač Island we currently have a problem with pediatrician and gynecologist. So, a kind of inaccessibility that needs to be resolved either in a way that slightly different regulates the question of scholarship, whether county health homes organise their work differently. We have a doctor's case on Solta that doesn't want to vaccinate people on the crown because she thinks it's made up or I don't know what she can't do from the medical chamber. What would be good to think about is when we are talking especially about larger islands that, um, islands in some status are given the authority of the county or that the county transfers its powers to them, I think they would be able to do it, but I'm not sure that it's possible in this constitutional framework, but it would be functional. Also something from the North Adriatic, so we have two airports in the northern Adriatic islands in Krk or Omislje Rijeka Airport and Losinj, and I think they are currently on these PSO lines in a slightly worse situation than other airports, so that could be improved. Otherwise, we like to remember with joy the period when the Department of the Islands was within the Ministry of the Sea or the Ministry of the Sea, the fact that it was changed in 2012, that it is systematic, can be regional development, but somehow without discrimination by territoriality it is easier for us to talk to these from the sea than with these from the continent, but of course there are people from the continent who have a great understanding of the islands, but that is something that could be considered the same. What is, of course, specificity, it's a matter of traffic connection. It is satisfying in some islands, some islands are not, and it can be repaired. Now, the question is that now because of the crown, these things are going to reduce the lines, and in this sense, the government has sent a proposal to the local self-government units to manifest themselves, expecting someone to voluntarily deny their lines. He won't. So you'd better not touch it. For the end of the debate on behalf of the club I would like to say that we will support this proposal in the first reading, I would like to appeal that the Island Council is finally meeting, I tried to inform myself so there has been no four years of sitting, I think only this University Council in Zagreb has not met for longer. However, now they've met, so we and these things could be discussed. And for two minutes and 50 seconds, I have to dedicate to the waterworks of my colleague, Brač Zekanovic, opened the topic. The situation is next, so Vodavod Brač is a company owned by units of local self-government from Brač and this in the following way, 7 municipalities had one vote regardless of the size, about consumption, about the number of inhabitants, and then the division of the Municipality of Milna in the municipality of Milna and Sutivan divided their vote so that we have 6 municipalities with one voice and 2 half, 6+2 that resembles that of 6 republics and 2 provinces, but it doesn't matter, but about then the results are seen. And in the election of directors, there were two candidates from HDZ, and as interesting as that is now, the one that didn't pass, otherwise, is my cousin. What do you say? It's so intertwined. ... from HDZ, look, the people of Branakni, the people of HDZ, SDPs and this for the public's sake should say that the HDZ candidate who has been the current director for 25 years was the director of five municipalities, so these are Nerežišće, Selca, Bol, Milna and Puker of the various political commitment of their leaders, and that for a change of leadership were Supetar, Postira and Sutivan also a different political commitment of their leaders. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know what their relationship with the council is now, but that's right. However, when an increase in water prices was required and should be said, then all HDZ municipalities, whether they were for this or that candidate, agreed to increase the price of water due to this building, while the Sutivan Municipality and the City of Supetar were against it. So because of the public, since my colleague Zekanovic mentioned it, here's what I have to say. Whether counterpart Zekanovic's work will be a topic of the next local elections in all 8 units of local self-government depends on the ability of those who compete in the elections. If the topic is that they are concerned, they will, if it isn't something else they will judge as an alternative in all other elections, therefore those who compete can legitimately, regardless of party membership, point out as an argument in their election campaign. And then the building located at the entrance to Supetar will remind us forever of the verses “The islands without water, the springs of it lock over your plains, the streams run down your gorge, drinking dew in the morning and the rain of the night that brings you the stormy clouds of the sons of the Adriatic and the Mediterranean,” Vladimir Nazor about his home island, and all other islands that do not have water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35113	The next club of representatives actually no longer has clubs, we are now moving to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35114	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. So I want to look right here at my colleague who regretted that the Department of Islands had moved from one ministry to another, and he was just the minister of administration who gave consent to such an act and, of course, as always those in the SDP remembered later that they were wrong and did everything wrong, but we were still worse, they turned management into the sector and we didn't have it for four years, but the government of Andrej Plenkovic returned the same and I think that... was one of the major mistakes. And the other one was financial, which is that you canceled our so-called. the EIB 3 loan that was implemented and, of course, left us without 100 million kuna roles in social and municipal infrastructure. I must say, that's what I was saying in the debate as an opposition representative, and now I have to do it again because you, Mr. Bauk, were still the one who signed the constitution and removed one such management from the Ministry of the Sea. But good. You can tell me later why you didn't bring her back, but there it is, and I think it's a good debate, and I'm glad we have an agreement, and that's what I was talking about in my speech, and that's exactly the agreement that we have today, and it's economic. Islands with 130,000 inhabitants contribute to the Republic of Croatia, the time has come to recover all these funds. I've seen a little statistic, a number of nights, tourism, every 5th is this, a tourist, on an island, every 5 nights on an island. Almost 20 million overnight stays in 2019 and over, I think there are about 5 million tourists somewhere. No, I'm sorry, I wrongly said, 2.5 million tourists visited the Croatian islands and disagreed here with a colleague from the Homeland Movement who says that passenger transport records the drop, we in 2019 had the growth of passengers and he was continuous, it was made possible with a good port infrastructure, with good ferrys, new ferrys, we need to know that the islanders are driving with good new ferrys, more or less, everyone has been restored in the last 20 years, they have established lines of fastboats that are indeed a high standard today, our passengers, children, students, pensioners, according to their county centres, all travel more or less free. We have island IDs that we've introduced to control, and I think we've really done a lot in that segment. What's important here is to say that the system that's been built for years recognizes road transport costing 30 million kuna per year, on islands everyone drives free, students, students, pupils, pensioners, health workers, etc. It's the super standard that's a little different from what we have on land. When we talk about employers, island employers, once again I ask the Ministry, 37., to try and reconcile him so that you don't have a problem, again in carrying out public calls, so that they can also achieve their support that may not be issued, but one average net salary per employee or at least half, when we talk about large islands, are certainly a good income and motive to deal with it. Croatian island product that we began to develop in 2006 and '07. Today, it has resulted in island products being recognizable. When we started to do that, we all knew that there was, I don't know, olive oil on the islands, paška cheese, that there were many products that were worth it, but we didn't expect what we have today, over 1,000 products and production lines, hundreds and hundreds of small OPGs and crafts that were found inside one stamp and working through it, they provided themselves with the possibility of living throughout the year and each product being placed on the market and being consumed as such. We have fairs that are here every year in Zagreb where we promote them and we have many fairs that are in other cities and on the islands themselves, and that's good. So I'm saying, the Slavonia project, it doesn't need to be underestimated and I don't need representatives from Slavonia to compete here whether it's good or not. This should be supported because he will certainly during the period of implementation, 10 years, give that space of the Republic of Croatia even better living conditions, because we are talking mostly more or less about infrastructure, but also through other moments which it should enable, such as, I say, and marking some products and everything else that goes with it. What I'm saying is happening on islands, tourism, I say, 2.5 million tourists, 20 million overnight stays, and then certainly 2.5 billion euros of income that we're talking about is the return to investment in the Croatian islands, that's what they can do today, so these laws need to contribute even more to making them even more developed and, of course, to be able to achieve their life goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35115	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35116	I thank my colleague, Boric. I wouldn't be talking about categories of mistakes or mistakes, because if there was a mistake, and you didn't correct it, which you... I just said what I would like more, but as a public official, I can't really make all my wishes and the fact that I'd prefer it before and you'd have another mistake, I wasn't the secretary of the administration at the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I first changed the law because there was a government law and then the government was elected. A minor mistake, it was, and as for this in the Ministry of the Sea or the Ministry, so I will list you several island officials who are now officials, so Mr. Milatić was now a state secretary, at the Ministry of the Islands since 2000-2003, as a member of the HSS, a colleague Bačić was at the Ministry of the Sea, you were at the Ministry of the Sea, Mr. Antesic was at the Maritime Ministry, and I was once, therefore there was no major dispute, so no mistake, only I would prefer both of you, and then we will not be politicizing further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35117	The Honorable Representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35118	Thank you very much, colleague Bauk, your career here began at the Department of Defense, as I recall, and this island may not have the largest... Some great importance, but I'm saying, I'm glad that there are, what you said, some minority, we're a minority, I think we're now in a space that's acceptable to the lives of many and many of our citizens want to live on islands, it's being witnessed and I think we're more or less... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about what we were hearing today and here about energy independence or, let's say, the possibility of being energy independence, the first wind power plant built in Croatia was on the island of Pag, unfortunately after that we had to adopt the Regulation on the protected coastal belt for the same wind power plant, then they banned themselves, say they were building on islands, so it all went to land, we didn't stand up to it then, but I think we're doing quite a shift today, and we have the first two solarians, say, on the islands, one is on Vis, the other is building on Cres, and I think that in about 10 years it's going to become one standard that will somehow make us better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35119	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35120	Thank you. Well, here's a specific question. Namely, the Island Assembly sent a letter and published a letter to the Ministry of Regional Development, where it seeks an explanation of why, for God's sake, the Croatian Post Office for certain islands was abolished via the Yellow Click delivery of 2kg of packages. So, at the time of the pandemic, when we have very often neither other ways but to buy through web shop, your CEO from the HDZ decides to remove a certain, significant group of islanders the possibility of delivering 2 kg of packages. So here I am asking you from this position that since you are party colleagues to say that this is not in line with the objectives of the Island Law, nor with Croatian policy towards islands, because what should be the principle is that the islanders have access to all those public services that other citizens of the Republic have, and HP is still as far as I know in state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35121	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35122	Thank you very much. My colleague Bencic, what I know for a fact is that this is not going to any party lines, HP is a public enterprise and is certainly taking care of its policies, including the islands. What I know is that in the time when we cared about it, and I believe that this is the case today because this shows the HACOM report on the islands, no post office is abolished regardless of their cost-effectiveness, whether they can contribute to the overall result of HP or not today. Did something like this happen, this is the first time I've heard it. What I know is that HP is doing its job neatly on Croatian islands and it's not easy to do, I don't know, deliver mail to one island of Susak or, I don't know, some other island that's a little bit less connected, but these people certainly get their shipments. Is every detail in the shipment such that it is perfect or the best there may be such mistakes, but if someone listens here we have the management of the islands, please also inform them in the mail to solve it because we have the administration that we can address with every request we make.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35123	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35124	Here's a thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Representative, here I am a little older so I know the times when nothing was invested in the islands, when the master of life and death was in power, and thank God it is no longer so and today it is extremely invested in the islands and you mentioned tourism in your performance. So, what does it mean to introduce so many lines or increase water consumption on the islands, do we know that we can practically come to the island when we want and go back to the island whenever we want, and before you had one line that was in one day, if you didn't go that day, then you had to pay the hotel somewhere to have somewhere to stay? And it certainly needs to be supported by this investment, and it seems to me that no one has invested more than 2 billion kunas in Croatian islands so far, but this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35125	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35126	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. Here may be working on information for those who didn't know, 2005. Croatian islands had their last lines at 8am and 9pm no matter how close they were to land, let's say Long Island or not Dugi Otok but Ugljan, Rab etc. We've been locked up for eight or nine hours. It was the last time you could come to the island and in the morning you could be back at 6. We've changed that, we've introduced night lines for all the big islands, and that's how we've made normal life possible, and I think that works really well today, the state is subsidizing it. As far as tourism is concerned, I said, every 5th tourist, every 5th night on the islands, they're huge amounts in terms of this money that's spinning and I don't think tourism alone is safe... Enough to survive there, we have fishing, we have cattle farming, we have numerous activities that can still find their place in state subsidies today, and that is the task and this administration to implement, but of course every other ministry. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this law is good because it imposes certain obligations on many ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35127	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35128	Thank you very much, Vice President. As head of the island community, I think you can best speak and know how to live on islands, which, as it were, has been invested and what we have today. In the reports we can see precisely no matter what our opposition thinks are all light stories, you can see exactly how much it's invested. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds invested more than €481 million in 2018, nearly twice as much as 787 million in 2019. The Ministry of the Sea invested more than 105 million kuna in the infrastructure in '18. to be in '19. 128 and so on. Refunds are invested in 2018. 1.8 billion to make over 2.5 billion in 2019, when we add credit to that as well. We reach the amount of nearly 3 billion kuna in 2019. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35129	Thanks, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35130	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Juričev, are important assets and their height, but more important is the integrity of the system that we achieved in the 20th year, which is that you have good ports that have been built up and built up again as going and going, means on the island and on the mainland, that we have more or less rehabilitated all state roads extended and arranged, there are still certain parts such as the island of Hvar, perhaps one part on the island of Rab, but mostly we have state roads that are stored properly and that I can answer the moment. We have water supply and draining on large islands in agglomeration systems that should now be upgraded to their finality even though many municipalities and cities have already solved most of their systems. We have a social infrastructure that is suitable and that can respond to all the demands we need. So I'm saying, one part of our needs are being met on land, it's mostly health care, it's mostly some administrative needs, but most of it now, especially in large islands, we can handle large islands, and the small ones need to come into focus and cities that are their administrative centres, but also the ministries to get into a situation that we no longer have problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35131	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35132	Dear fellow Boric, in the introduction of your debate, you touched on the changes in legal regulation after 2012, I am glad that a colleague from the SDP who was then a member of the executive government has agreed with you to make such a decision. This reminded me of another you and I then actively alerted it to taking down the status of the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted area of Gorski kotar practically 50 million kunas have lost all municipalities and towns of Gorsko Kotar. The damage is impossible to resuscitate today. Here is an example of the SDP government in this part of us all need to be taught that we do not need to go thoughtlessly into such decisions and just the example of this law being made, the example of this and this debate today, that we should work in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35133	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35134	Thank you very much. Dear Klaric, I remember that time and mountain-mounted law, we warned them not to bring it down to that level so that you could stay as Gorans, you can go into the woods and pick it up, if I remember the debate of a little bit of these forest fruits, and that was all the value even though the law remained. It was only this government that began to say apply it the other way, that it added it, and I think now that the first contracts and everything that goes towards the mountainous municipalities have its results. I think they should be helped as well as the islands and so I appeal to this story about Slavonia that there must be a common policy because if it doesn't happen then we'll have a different situation. The islands have been through this and I'm saying what my colleague in the SDP said that we've had an agreement on any amendments to the law, that we've implemented it and that today's islands are not the perfection of life, but surely we're much better than we were 20 years ago and we can ensure sustainability. It will also show the population census that every year we had more population, and I believe that 2021 will certainly be more than these 132,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35135	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35136	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Boric, you were just talking about the agreement between the SDP and the HDZ, and what I want to tell you is that when you touched or touched Mr. Arsen Bauk before, as I come from the island of Brac, I would like to say that the price of water on the island of Brac has not changed for 15 years, that it has now been brought into line at 12m. just for orderly business regardless of building the building we had today, this is important for transparency that the public knows that in 15 years they have collected both works and materials precisely for the maintenance of the water supply network. And the same truth should be told that the City of Supetar, where the SDP government was restrained, was indeed Sutivan, however, and the Municipality of Bol, where the SDP government of Mr Arsen Bauk did not just say that they were in favour of this vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35137	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35138	Thank you, dear colleague Baricevic, for this remark or replica. I just want to say from the beginning that what my fellow sovereigns and bridge colleagues have said does not agree with such levels of debate because they do not contribute to this story of this law. It's an attempt at a populist view, let's say for one... and then there's ignorance. So the waterworks Brac as well as any other water pipeline on the island is an independent company and this law has nothing to do with them. For example, for the island of Brac, water may be delivered there in some settlements, and it is charged, the subsidy is about 130,000 kuna of 11 million. The biggest problem is the island of Hvar, obviously see that there goes over 2 million kunas and there is obviously a lot of settlements in which there is no water net and then it is solved that way. What anyone will do in a certain company owned by a unit of local self-government is not the subject of this law and should not be the topic of debate here at all. But I'm saying, when they don't know much about it and on those islands of these parties, they don't, they just don't work. People know why they choose their leaders and why they trust them and work for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35139	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35140	Dear counterpart Boris, to live on the island must be able to survive, so we will all agree. In that sense, my question is that we are discussing life on islands and that you have boasted and traffic connections and better, etc., what about health care, when will helicopters and speedboats orbiting with medical equipment be equally available to all islands in Croatia? The same as at least the primary emergency medical care in hospitals where there is currently no doctor and one doctor supplies literally several islands. It is easy for us to boast of the season, but what if we come to not only our citizens but also those sides are literally threatened by flying on our islands, will we only then do something to make that health care equally accessible without discrimination for everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35141	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35142	Thank you very much. My colleagues Selak, as far as health care is concerned and there has been a shift over the past 20 years and Croatian islands today have a level of adequate health care and coverage and helicopter transport. You will be taken care of on the island of Rab or on any island of the Primorje-Gorski County, but also in Dalmatia within that golden hour without any problems, unless, of course, they are extremely major weather accidents, if they smoke heavy storms or something when that helicopter can't fly. That's what we do. As for other things, we have restored all health facilities, all hospitals and small and large islands, we have introduced specialist offices on the islands of Losinj, on the island of Krk, Rab, you have dialysis which was once a major problem, you have these on Dalmatian islands, you have independent homes of health such as on the island of Korcula, we have homes of health within regional self-government, meaning county homes of health, your facilities. We have good health care. Of course she can always do better, always, but she has so far met our needs and needs to further develop to be right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35143	Thank you. Mrs. Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35144	Here we agreed that the traffic connection is a crucial issue of the existence and functioning of Croatian islands. Mr. Boric, you were the Assistant Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta of the then Minister, and we all know, you know, and you can say that it is a symbol, one of the symbols of Croatian corruption, under that ministry of course Jadrolini. What did you, Mr. Boric, in HDZ, do to make this Jadrolini work normally, to be a modern company that will take care of what it is set for, what is there for, what is paid for, and not to be a mastodont? What have you done about it, Mr. Fighter, you and your party colleague, Bozidar Kalmeta?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35145	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35147	What? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shimičević. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35148	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, a colleague has been injured by an officer. 238. He's telling the truth here. He's actually accusing people who have been cleared of the charges. In the media space, it may seem to you that those who write, write that would call it journalistic half-tronism where they listen and record the lies, exactly what you just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35149	Thank you very much, Mr. Shimičević. You know I have to warn you because it was a replica, you know, no, because it's not in the article. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35150	The lady told a lie and I just said he was hurt. 238, and that's where the truth is being told. Man isn't if someone's been prosecuted and not accused, So he can't know that I kept this quiet. [[Mr. Šimičević, don't let me give you...]] Then it means that Mr. Bozidar Calmeta, I don't know who or what, and he's a free citizen. [[Don't let me give you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35151	I have to give you a second warning because this isn't a Bible that speaks for the truth, this is the law. This law does not say in any verse the word “truth. ” I'm sorry, that's what the two main parties agreed on. If the word “truth” was written, then I would give you the right but I must give you a second warning. Mr. Miro Bulj has, no, you have the answer, right? I'm sorry, no, no. ... Who's the injury? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Miro Bulj has an injury. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35152	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, after Mr. Simičević's foolish exposure, you gave him a warning, so I am withdrawing my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35153	And you get a warning. So do you. It's a warning for Mr. Butt. An individual debate, right? Yes, go ahead. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Marin Miletić has...... So I asked you before you responded to the replica. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35154	Mr. Chairman, you here do such precedents for this kind of behavior as colleagues on my left, you would throw other MPs out of the assembly and now you're skipping the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35155	- Mrs. Crescent. Kristo, you have a warning. You have a warning, and you can give me a warning that I didn't give you an answer, please. [[Intruder Boric: Can I answer, Your Honor?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35156	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Kristo, you asked me what I did for this particular Jadrolini, for those islands and our islanders. Much more than you ever will because you don't even understand what we're talking about here today and you came here with your exposure in some way to dirty this debate by accusing people falsely. The man was unlawfully released from all charges, I was his assistant as well as the secretary of state and I am proud of what I did for the Croatian islands and islanders. And you can... you as such a politician who deals daily with some kind of investigation or accusation, you can put yourself in that group or that group of people who call themselves self-inflicted, that's what's going to happen in the Croatian media space and everything you're going to do these four years, that's exactly what it's going to be. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Please, please.]] For yourself and you have never been in a position or been able to clearly nor will you be to help anyone except yourself and your career obviously. And we know what we did and we're proud to talk about it here. That's what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35157	Thank you very much, time. I have one request for you. I didn't even come here, and I've already given four warnings. I would ask you to spare me that because, as I say, I am not comfortable with the warnings and there is a Rules of Procedure here that I must respect, I am not comfortable with either the opposition or the party in power. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35158	I need to react to a few things, Art. 238. Here is the latest demeaning of Parliamentarian Vidović Kristo, so it will also enter the record that you boasted what you did during Calmeta, which I believe will best be rewarded by the citizens. Furthermore, you gave a warning to a colleague, Buljo, who withdrew his breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have to warn you, and you've been in the middle of a debate here, and it's also getting into a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you've clapped like you're in a theater and not in a Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35159	I'm sorry, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too. And once again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35160	Thank you very much. Here let the people hear all the benevolences that you've done mainly for the time of Calmete that you've properly feared the tunnels, it was neatly done, in fact I'm interested, here when we're talking about the islands, I'm glad that we... basic human rights, we talk about water, what we do and what projects we do to preserve those waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mentioned, once again... Why don't we pass the law on fire protection, the Dalmatian, for example, for what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you made it a project, you made a stream. And the potential where you mention water here, from Cetina drinks water, uses Brač, and Hvar and Solta and the Makarska coast and Omis, means islands and coasts. But no one takes care of that Zagora, from Krka to Neretva. It was used... and said why they were now turned into islands without projects, so little and for human resources, it's a key issue, and about islands to talk about when in my county, Kerum stands with our maritime good, concessions on the greatest good, along with HDZ, and that's true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the potentials that the islands have can be exploited not only for coalition pre-election purposes which the concession, to which the Golden War will go to Brač, means we have the potential of our islands, we can use that potential, unfortunately we don't use it. We don't use the potential of the island if we mention Jadrolini. If we mention others, it means a connection, and not just that. Because you know when a man hurts on Hvar, and when his blood is removed, and the triba is in the lab if he smokes south or a strong storm if he can't, that they have to go to Kaštel, that he can't get this blood tested in the labs, do you know that? So we have a lot of islands, not only are the islands islands here, you made the islands of 2/3 of Croatia that you forgot and not just from my Dalmatian mountain, you made Banovina an island, Slavonia island, just an island. It's not just the Zagreb center of the dawn, a couple of cities, it's not just and there's problems here. I also said when there was an earthquake that the triba special law for 2/3 of Croatia is what the earthquake had done in Zagreb is an ajme. However, it was only discovered behind, when unfortunately there was an earthquake in Banovina, it showed how much damage was done to that end and without earthquakes. And we have a lot of islands, so I'm curious as to why in the Republic of Croatia we have areas where we have drinking water sources used by people on islands who would use free of charge or just technically pay for water maintenance, why we didn't protect these areas like. The Dalmatian Zagora? All the islands are powered from Cetina, and we have the most expensive water from Krka to Neretva. Can someone explain it to me for what? Just Cetina, what's powering up now soon and in the middle of Dalmatia is Jadro in trouble behind every rain and Split pool, which is why we don't use that resource and potential, let's just say that, in Dalmatia, people don't pay for water at all? It would be an incentive for people to stay in the area, not farmers, 40% of Croatia's hydropower gives that river, and I won't talk about Krka, I won't talk about Zrmanja, which also gives them a lot of RH, and it gives them the most significant, it's the resource of the future, it's water, it's water that's now on the stock market. We give in concessions like 37 seconds, at the time of Zoran Milanovic the source of Cetina was given for 37 seconds to discuss 5,000 kuna, 5,000 kuna per month. I say, I know such a picturesque word that two cows who have an O.P.G. drink more monthly water consumption. Therefore, we have made numerous islands, here I always mention this agglomeration of Sinj by not justifying the local community, not the local water supply, and neither Croatian water. All the sewerage through the Sinjsko polje enters the river Cetina where I repeat, it feeds on the waters of Makarska coast, Omis and islands from where our Prime Minister, Hvar, is originally, Brac, Solta and numerous other islands and our places. Therefore, once again, do not forget to create islands from the hinterland and human beings that will be an empty area, and unfortunately it will only be an exploitation field.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35161	Thank you. You've got a few replicas, Mrs. President. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35162	Dear counterpart Bulj, I don't know why it would be a problem that someone can't extract blood on Hvar when it's necessary because colleagues from HDZ, as we could hear from Agent Boris, think that there is medical care there as well as on all islands at a satisfactory level. Maybe they think he's dying on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays or on some other schedule they delivered to the islands. As far as the water system is concerned, I would say that the water system on the islands is a water infrastructure that is primarily communist-like and the mental set of those who are in charge of it, are now ruling and maintaining it. So, during the season at 7 p.m., everyone is equally missing. But I would ask you to look back at another thing that's not said enough, which is that the islands are actually hit by an ecological disaster because all the yachts when they swim off the coast a little closer to the islands then decide to ease their tanks to the joy of the islanders and those who have come to summer there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35164	Our 1,000 - island Adriatic pearl also has this problem, ecologically, from the end I'm going to start, ecologically where ships, where they leave their balaic waters, feces pour out in the ports and we try to oppose it. We are currently in the Adriatic, and tourism is very important and for the islands we have stains in the centre of the Adriatic larger than the surface of Split, only streaming saves what does not reach the island, their beaches or beaches on, on, on, on, on this coast. So once again, ecology is very important, tourism is very important, our waters are very important and therefore we have to invest. I don't mention the river Cetina just because I'm a Sinjan, but half of Dalmatia is going to use those drinking water sources a little bit more, and we still have today to open the sewerage into the Cetina River. This is the truth of what I'm saying, I'm not lying, and if I lie freely with you all go and see, this is a huge problem for a fellow coastal island is not only a problem for Sinja to say it's a sinian problem, No, that's the whole of Croatia's problem. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35165	- Mrs. Crescent. The coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35166	Your Honor, Vice President. Kolega Bulj, so that your sentence about nothing is related to laboratory activity in the area in this assembly, so I would like to remind you that, in the framework of the project of the establishment of fast emergency medicine ships, it is obtained and functioned in 12 health facilities, which means in this order, Preko, Vis, Solta, Supetar, Hvar, Jelsa on Hvar, Rab, Mali Losinj, Cres, Mljet, Lastovo, Korčula and Blato on Korčula were obtained so-called. pointpoker, these are devices that are modern, small, they don't have to be taught I don't know how much to do so that quick searches can be done and differentiated in such a way as to whether or not it's an emergency or an acute condition. This was released last year, used, used, used and all opportunities are used to improve the health care system on islands, and we will agree that it should be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35167	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35168	Health services are very important, especially since in the tourist season we must also have tourist clinics in certain islands due to a number of population increases i.e. tourist. We have somewhere to go 10th, 15th, 20ths increase the population at one point on the islands, in the centers of a certain, and in the coast, for example. in Makarska, and I suggested it through the the thematic session, even the county assembly accepted it, but this tourist infirmary was never implemented, we have in other counties that now I am not complicating others or these. As far as the lab is concerned, it's a favor to believe that it's been a pain in the ass to listen to the fact that there's a blood transfer from Makarska to the Kaštela analysis, it's been a pain in the ass to listen to me. Or I was sick of hearing how those from Hvar with all your stories about how Hvar couldn't ship, and with that it couldn't even analyze blood or laboratory anything to do in the lab, it was a pain in the ass, it was a pain in the ass. When people call me Hvar, it makes me sick. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] I don't know if it's you or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35169	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Bull. I'm an islander, my whole life I've been an islander, you know, and the care of the islanders I know much better than you do, and there are still great challenges ahead of many islands and islanders. But we islanders also know how to appreciate what's good and I don't allow as a man who I've spent my whole life with Jadrolini that this company and other shipmen who serve us and connect the islands in this way you evaluate. The Croatian islands have never been better connected to the mainland than they are today. And when you talk about health services, health services today on the island of Hvar that I know very well, where in 2004, we brought a magnetic accelerator, where we did a number of devices that we brought to our homes of health. talk about how much has been done for the islands when it comes to improving health care. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35171	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35172	I understand your love for the islands, but I've asked here if mention of water means that you will subsidize more cubic water and I support it. I would be most fortunate to be able to islanders because of the survival of the people in the area and free water for the locals who remain living there, the happiest would be if it could and should be in Croatia on islands and in Zagora. But I also mentioned these resources that we use, and this law is mentioned, it's an example of water. If we do not protect our water, Jadro is in trouble, and it is powered by Split's largest pool. The mayor himself said that he would connect Split to Cetina, if we do not protect Cetina if the sewerage goes open regardless of all these mistakes that happened in agglomeration, if we do not protect and create a sewerage in a city that has 25,000 inhabitants, we also have a problem on islands and we in Zagora. And I don't understand why there's the most expensive water in Zagora, and we have the highest potential of water.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35173	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35174	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. A fellow Bull. So, in your debate, you mentioned among other things every time as you mention your Cetina landscape, which I understand absolutely well in the discussions that I often mention about Zagreb and mention the end from which I come, but the debate about the islands that you have tied to earthquakes I am experiencing in the following way, so in the center there must be man and what the state can do for that man. I will always support the Island Law and everything else because life has no people on the islands and there is no life on the islands if the state does not make a certain effort because the units of local and regional self-government simply can't. Equally from this earthquake, the City of Zagreb as the capital can still be strong, but Banija or Banovina without state can't do anything. The city of Zagreb was supposed to create some frameworks and some architecture, but there is nothing in Banovina or Banovina without a state like there is no future of an island without a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35175	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35176	So this morning I mentioned that Zagora is unfortunately an island regarding projects that do not belong in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and you later mentioned Banovina that the island that has a simple connection to traffic is not a coast, it is not a river, and in fact it is an island that is forgotten and I agree with that. In the Republic of Croatia two-thirds of Croatia has been forgotten. It's really not clear to me, I didn't mention the Cetina province, I mentioned Cetina because a large number of Central Dalmatian islands are fed from the river Cetina, and we don't worry about the ecological purity of that area. It is similar with Zrmanja, it is similar with Krka river, meaning rivers where the islands are fed. We do not protect that area, even more expensive is water in the West where these sources of expensive water people pay more than in other areas of the Republic of Croatia, and these are areas where they should subsidize people to stay and make these resources as cheap as possible so that they have as little cost as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35177	Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35178	Dear fellow Bull. On more than one occasion you asked why the water in the Cetina region is more expensive than in other parts, so you have the towns of Sinj, Trilj, the municipalities of Otok, Hrvatce and Dicmo are the owners of the company Vodavod and the disposal of Cetinska krajina d.o.o. So here you ask why the water is expensive in the blood place because the price and structure of the price of water determine exactly these municipalities and cities. They also determine that development price in this structure, so it can be between 0.5 lip and 5 kuna in m3 water. So it's not a question for the Parliament and the Government why the price is so much water, but for the cities and municipalities and who own your municipal company, as in Rijeka, the water and sewerage, the water structure, is determined by the owners. You understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35179	Not to understand, but I do... the assembly and members of the five municipalities and cities... determine, determine the price, so that's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about how it's possible for local self-government to determine that it's such a price. This year alone, the eight congregations of the Cetinski waterworks have collected 8 kuna per cubic of water. I have to say it here that it was saddening in the crown crisis when the caterers tried something when the lite earned it came if 100 cc's spent water 800 had to pay more expensive than the previous year or vice versa. Why? Because we are not even in these areas, in these areas, with everything that local plumbing is doing and the owners of the state must make sure that this is not possible. We must make a law on these areas, examples if the Law on Islands, why not the law on Dalmatian Zagora where we have from Krka to Neretva 100,000 people have gone since the founding of the county, 100,000 people. The potential of the human Velki was in. The Dalmatian burns, unfortunately because of this behavior, we lost him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35180	Thank you. Mr. Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35181	Thank you, Chairman, I'm here. Dear Mr. Bulj, the island coordinators are actually one of the key figures for the island itself and all that on the island as such should be or should come. In accordance with Article 19 of this Law, do you think Mr Kuščević, as such, would actually be ideal as an island coordinator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35182	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35183	I usually, when he was in power here, graver of the referendum together with Plenkovic, Mr Kuščević did not like people when they were on the floor to speak ill, I was, for example, against Ivo Sanader even forbidden to be involved in this, what, and now I see that those who were with him were good to attack him. So, Mrcvarit, Lovre Kuščević is now a man who is basically expelled, basically implementing a policy that his colleagues have implemented before Ivo Sanader, so he cannot wash it and Andrej Plenkovic, but it is in principle the worst that can happen. What was being spent for, and that's being re-purposed, it's a very important thing, buying farmland for small money and re-use of those lands is a huge profit and profit, but only for those who have certain information. Buy for the kuna, I don't know the examples, for the kuna agricultural land after a few days re-use it agriculturally and then there's a square of EUR 1000, then you know how much they get. And that's one of the good problems The one you warned about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35184	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. It is now up to Mr Marin Miletic, also an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35185	Dear Mr Furio Radin, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bukarica, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues, colleagues, today we are talking about the Island Act and I think it is important to talk about another dimension. I will experience, I love always talking about everything experienced, what I've been going through, what I've seen, what I've seen, and then on the basis of the arguments I bring my judgment on something, my thinking. The island's main problems are depopulation and infrastructure throughout. I'd like to be taxed. The island of Prvic where I spent some 14, 15 years before they told me that I was no longer desirable, and I'll talk about it later, just emotion, just truth, so to the end is whether. That island has 1 store, you have to do another salary so you can be down there for 10-15 days because it's really very expensive. The jury doesn't have a single store. It's also very interesting because I guess people think we'll live at the season, and then when the season's over, we'll forget everything we need. I wish we could all realize that our islanders can't live only in the season and that we have to offer them the whole system, the infrastructure to function throughout the year. And we know that well what it means. For example. Doctor on every island, if possible, health care, healthcare him. We used to happen on islands that weren't far away if the child got hurt, so you have to call the ambulance that's coming to you, coming for you with the boat, then drive to Sibenik, etc., if we're talking about that part. Half our villages have no water supply, and that's a really big problem. It's amazing that people in 2021 don't have basic conditions, sanitary conditions. The EU directive, I just printed it here, so I read, you know how the EU directives are full clear, they say it is necessary to provide every entire water supply story, draining, etc., and then we have a Croatian reality. And the Croatian reality says that in August I filed a criminal application against an anonymous perpetrator because on the desert island of Zmajan or the Dalmatians called it Orut, someone, someone built a villa with a pool and this beautiful pool, concreted the waterfront of the Croatian public, the institutions of the Croatian state, concreted the waterfront, destroyed the maritime well-being that a 20-metre yacht could be attached here nicely to the mall and no one could touch anything. Eat the donkey wolf. I won't let you breathe, breathe until you do your job. In a sports dictionary, I'm going to play press, about a parliamentary representative don't exaggerate, not just the truth, just the truth, just the truth. Someone in our country built a villa on the desert island of Zmajan, solar panels, outdoor kitchen, indoor kitchen, a hotel built on the island of Dragon fellow MPs, I'm sorry. And no one. And no one. Forgive me for being emotional. I'm horrified by that. I'm terrified that we're smiling, we're doing games, we're throwing spins while our people rot, while our people are watching what's going on, we wave with European directives, we promise, we play ping pong with people. Gentlemen, on the desert island of Zmajan, someone built a hotel, it's a villa, rented it at the Booking for huge money. Gentlemen, MPs! Croatian country! Institutions! DORH! Police! What's going on, what's going on? Is that why our boys and women were killed in the Homeland War, killed by civilians, 15,486 people, that's why they were killed? To fill my pockets with someone else's or to fill their pockets, to become patriotic predators? That's not why our boys fought and we won't keep quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35186	You have replicas, replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. [[Intruder Miletic: Yes, yes, I'm ready for anything.]] Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35187	Dear fellow Miletic, we talked a lot about inhabited islands, of course people are always in the center and so should be about their infrastructure that they lack to survive and winter, not just summer on those same islands. However, what would you say on the trail of what you were talking about in your individual debate, how does Croatia take care of desert islands that also have value, weight and which I don't know, here you are saying that not all of them are as relaxed as they seem?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35188	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35189	You should, thank you, colleague Selak Rasdic, you should ask the Guides which fear so they send me e-mails, I pass them all by law, you should ask people what's going on on on those islands. I won't let them. I don't think I'm any Superman, I have my faults, but only the truth, just the truth, I want to live in a country where the truth is living, regardless of who belongs to HDZ, SDP, Bridge, any political options, working options, I don't know, independent, I just want the truth. I want our people to look at us and know we're telling the truth. I want people who look at us to know that we live the truth and to fight for the truth because the truth is one thing, something is legally built or completely illegal, and you need to see why inspections don't do their job. And we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35190	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35191	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Miletic, this law is a step forward compared to what we had for the population on the islands. By 2025, some forecasts say that about 2 billion people should actually be left without the water they spend on a daily basis for basic living needs. One option is desalination as one is produced on 1 m2 solar panels, so about 20 l of water a day. Do you think that as a country in this direction we should have left yesterday?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35192	I think, thank you, colleague Kujundzic...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35193	Excuse me, Chairman. [[Mr. Miletic, I'm sorry, I have to give you my word.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Intruder Radin: Return the chronometer, please.]] [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35194	I think it's always good to move forward. Since I'm in groups with people with disabilities, and I know that, while they're ruling here, they've done a good job, and that should be commended, I think that Jadrolini has solved everything, that people have free transportation and all people with disabilities and all, and I don't think that there's any problem with saying "well done, HDZ, well done, you've done it well" and I want it so. I also want to have the right to point out if something in my mind is wrong, if someone on a desert island... He builds a villa and rents it illegally and logs in, and the inspection comes, and the wolf eats the donkeys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They write portals, they write journalists, the wolf eats donkeys, who protects who? I don't know, but I'm not giving up. I won't stop. As for your colleague, the questions, as I said, I really think every step forward is better than standing in place. And so here, I commend the same of the ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35195	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35196	Dear colleague, you mentioned that you had a summer vacation in Prvic, so every year I fly to Žirje and here, more debates today precisely that small island have touched. What I am interested in, during the summer months there is a store there that works limitedly, but in the winter months these inhabitants of that small island literally do not have any trade and depend on ship's public transport, when weather accidents, of course, are present, they do not even have any supply of any supplies. Do you think it would be necessary to find a solution to allow some kind of subsidy or relief to these shops some motivation and work to deal with their activities during both winter and summer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35197	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35198	Thank you, colleagues. I don't think it's good that everything has a price. I don't think it's good to cost everything. I know, now someone might say utopian, well, you really are a dreamer, a utopian, but if we have two people, if we have one man on the jury, he has to have everything, he has to have a store, and then we as a state, ruling, so they come because you're there, because you have power, position, then let's see how help a man that he has bread, milk, basic groceries every day. I don't think it's good that everything has a price in terms of competition, profit, etc. Because then it opens up at the end and space to corruption, nepotism, when something can be bought. And then someone offered more, not everyone had to be honest. And that's why I think we have to here, and in those places, on the jury, wherever the little islands are, help our people one, one, help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35199	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35200	My colleague Miletic, you said about the devastation, the construction of the villa, the concreteization, it's not just on the island, but you're telling me about the fracture, the breach, the mating of our resources. Here we go, Gold War, gambling. It means Brač, the most beautiful beach in the world. Tossing, political gambling with our resources, with the resources of the islanders. We will also go to the coast, in Makarska, Mati Yunović and that click allowed the baggers to break the coast, the beautiful cross without any problem, they mate these boobs, nothing here, the mayor of Makarska, I didn't hear him stand up and so wherever you go, here's the island of Smokvica, the Hungarians do whatever they want. So they let our bloodstream be destroyed, our veins kill and the survival of the people in these areas. And the vast gain of what they have from it [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] in the pocket of Judah's sons. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35201	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35202	My colleague Bulj, imagine in the parallel universe that Marin Miletic, Rijekanin, the believer, come nice on some small island near Krk, dofuram for one month working with boats, dofuram sand, banger, work, build a villa, set up solar panels, pool 15 metrics, call my friends to bathe, there are videos let me call my friends to take a bath, chat, and they'd close me the other day, they'd lock me up, they'd lock me up, they'd trap me, they'd get 10 years in jail. They'd say a criminal, we knew from the Church what they were like, you know how they'd start, we'd hardly wait, even then this left-handed woman who doesn't know me as well as I'm actually close to some ideas, and they'd get all over her head. And it happened on..., I filed a criminal report, the inspector was, nothing, a wolf ate the donkeys. A hotel on a desert island, a hallowed people, a state of what's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35203	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35204	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I just wanted to react you mentioned Prvic, let the honest people from Prvic alone. Personally and there I spent the last few years, on the ferry I knew pie coffee also with my colleague Bartulica, I would go to Privić Luka and he would go to Prvic Šepurine. They're honest people, they're good people. They are currently the biggest problem of sewers, they are the third most populated island in the Adriatic, I, as regional development minister, planned to engage in the leading agglomeration, and the second biggest problem is their access to the ferry. A ferry is driven by Tiyat, which my grandmother from Zaton long ago until there was a Sibenik bridge to Sibenik, 50, 60 years ago, so that's reality. And this is some tranquilizer pill, because I know you're the mayor's candidate, it's all wonderful and wonderful, but let the islanders go, leave Prvic alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35205	Thank you. Mr. Pavić, let's moderate a little, please, dictionary, to moderate the dictionary. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35206	Thank you, fellow chairman. I know the HDZs are very upset because they know what will be waiting for them in Rijeka, but I would really say that I am a Christian forgiving everyone and your colleague Pavic from the bottom of my heart I don't blame anything, I understand. I'd like to say that I came to Prvic, so here I am not saying that for more than 14, 15 years, I know everything down there, that I don't say names and everything you say you have a right, so I was just being very specific. There's one single store and it's really expensive, so I was just thinking about how to help people in that dimension, and I agree with everything else that you said, so I think it's important that we look at one wide picture of that whole story. And the bigger picture was really clear and no spins would stop the words that went public. And my character, I'm an extrovert and everything that's on my heart comes out unlike some who keep everything behind thick walls and under a lock-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35207	Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35208	Dear Vice President. A fellow Pavić was injured by an article. The 238th prejudges fellow Miletic, who at no time said that the people of Prvic were not honest people at all, but he said that these people must be helped. And we're not here to condemn the behavior of our fellow MPs, even if someone is hearty and characterizing is even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35209	It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica? Then it's a warning. I'm sorry, I thought it was a replica. It's a reminder then. Mrs. Andreja Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35210	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. The supply of medically proper water for human use on the islands is regulated by law, and it is imperative for all of us. You have presented several important things in your presentation, so in many villages as you have said, there is no available water from the public supply area, but people manage to know and to wash. Secondly, you mentioned one island, but I have seen from some media exhibitions that there are problems with illegal construction and pollution of drinking water and other locations. That's a new problem. And the question of the regularity of sanitary regularity in these situations means illegal construction, and even when people are not connected to the public supply area. So do you have any idea how often this check of sanitary regularity is conducted, and what happens if it's seen that it's gone wrong, did the wolf eat the donkeys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35211	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35212	Excuse me. I've heard from the people of Vodice who have major problems on the island of Tiyata and I said I stopped here and I said, "Notify all the services, if the services don't respond, then come to me and I'll talk to you in this honorary House in our assembly about why the institutions aren't doing their job." You've got a very strange story on Tiatu, and there's all kinds of paperwork that's been going on, and there's all kinds of pencils being built illegally, and then they're setting up these papers to still be, to get the documents, so when they couldn't get 30 metric moles, they found one hole that's the place for the towel dump. There's a lot of things in our country, only if you're a little involved and close to the source is there. Which one? Hmm. And then they nicely built you down stories of yachts coming, paying, so restaurants nothing, all illegal. It's amazing and I think we have to do everything we can to build a fairer and fairer Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35213	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash has her own debate. By the time you get here, there's just one more thing to say. The breach of the Rules of Procedure should be a serious matter, it should be a serious matter of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's not play one, two, and then I can't, I can't, it's become one math, one arithmetic injury to the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure is a serious matter, it's about one law, no. Here you go, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35214	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When I spoke on behalf of the club, I said that I would use five minutes of individual debates as a topic of spatial planning or how smart islands, island development and everything else, but you have that siren call you can't resist, so I can't resist it, too. In his debate, counterpart Miletic spoke of illegal construction. So, illegal construction on our islands is something that was one respected representative in this assembly who said it was our tradition. So that there is this one construction tradition in the Croats that is illegally built on islands. And as long as we define it, there's no progress. What our islands are worth. Our islands are of value among other things because of their natural values. They're worth it because they're in space. Every illegal building on those islands devastates the island and devastates forever. And it's not that simple on the islands, you have to take the boat, so you have to have a buffer, so you have to have something to build and not rent helicopters and throw the house to helicopters. And we have come to what has been one of the major problems of the Croatian state since the Croatian state. And that's a construction inspection. A construction inspection that has always been kept in mind for years rather than being kept to be quality, to be the most qualified people, to be adequately paid, was kept in mind that it has reduced its number less and less, today it is in the State Inspectorate, and I, as a parliamentary representative, asked the question of how many general destructions there have been. I personally didn't, I don't like the collapse, especially I don't like the collapse when everything's done and people live inside and you move people. But to tear down the moment the lawless construction moves that makes sense. Today you have satellite footage. So, you can in real time not only see how many of us are in this assembly now and who's discussing it, but see who bought the cement, who started the construction material driving. When I started working, they were scouts, whose assignment was, I'm talking about the City of Zagreb, to pass through a certain part of the city every day and see who bought the building material. The other day, the inspector went outside and saw if he had a building permit. And the biggest illegal construction in Croatia is on the marine side. That's why there's a variety of dippings, all of it's building, it's leveling the coast, it's all building, it's pouring out the trays for towels, it's all building, it's building, it's building. With this illegal construction, no one has ever systematically gone into business. That's a fact. It was even less systematic to deal with the different ports which, for a simple reason, included the subject of concessions. For all marine goods, you must have a concession and fill the budget. If it had decided on the subject of concessions to solve the problem, I am sure that in a different way it would have been engaged in illegal construction and put into concessions. And we come up with another big problem, and that's the problem we see on the islands. The catastrophe and the garland. Here when you sit you have computers, you can go, say, open up the island of Vis and put up a very simple portal catastre. When you put a cadastre on the island of Vis, then there really is a state of the island there, and indeed the condition of the catastra, the catastre is in the sea. There's no real situation with the cathedral, and we haven't even gotten to the garter yet. Our coast, and that's 7 County's so-called. The Italian grantovnica where the grantovnica was especially for buildings, and especially for land, you only get to the real horror. I'm actually going back to that subject here to amend and supplement the island law. The islands are worth, once you break that island's value, you've broken forever. No more of that island with its identity. That should be done, as should be done with all other matters. Among other things, it is important to take care of what these islands know. We have a long tradition of spatial planning where we planned and which can be in the sea unlike some other countries. And that's why when it was the Island Act, I mentioned it twice from this pay phone and said that planning the island's development don't be locked up within the borders of individual units. Local self-government is much wider and then you've changed the law and made it possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35215	Thank you very much. Stay because you have a line from Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35216	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have presented a very important problem, and this is an illegal construction of not only objects but also the destruction of maritime goods, concessions, etc. So we see something in the media, something man sees and in practice that processes exist, so units of local self-government and those who are illegally building, but the whole problem is except that they're illegally building is that the processes take a very long time. So, how do we even get to that because then someone decides let's take this maritime good, I know that the process will take 10 years, nothing, how does it get any faster?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35217	So it's a topic that could be in this debate one longer period of time. What exactly is this about? It's about how people have made, so a very, very banal example, he's leveled some shrimp and he's made a set on which his guest who's coming to the sun and now the next thing you know, there's a towel there already since morning, and if God doesn't give somebody there a stray and wants to put his towel on this towel ends in the sea. He did it wrong, he didn't think of it as paying for a concession, he didn't think of it as something different to define it, and it's becoming normal for you, and it's actually giving you a bad picture. So, the moment we say people my priority is to take down a cadastre where, where construction is, to establish a line of maritime good, see everything in that maritime good that pays concessions. Those who wish to regulate it will not. You'll actually have to move it, but that's the problem you need [[Thank you very much.]] face it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35218	Thank you. And now we're going to have more of Mrs. Webber's exposure. Vidović Kristo with its replicas if Mr. Šimičević will be there, and then we will have this small break of 10 minutes to refresh, refreshing the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35219	Ladies and gentlemen, in the description of the way and the quality of the work of the Croatian government and the ministries that are proposing and these legal changes will help the following comment by a German politician who has assisted our Ministry of Agriculture in the process of Croatia's accession. This gentleman very well-intentioned in one conversation said he had the impression that Croatian officials of the Ministry of Agriculture had never actually seen a live pig. It was completely unclear to him since he spent almost half of his working time on the ground, he literally said in deep rubber boots I co-ordinate and implement the ministry's policy directly with farmers. This is because this proposal to amend the Island Act is one in a row after which adoption in the lives of the people of Hvar, Rab, Visa or Krk will not change anything for the better. It is enough to see that proposals during the public debate in the preparation of these changes, which were given by cities such as Vis or Primorje-Gorski Kotar County or by companies such as “Autotrans” have not been accepted at all. And that's the logic of a fellow German to write and prepare laws for people who are not at all familiar with the real life of those areas in which these laws apply. These are the people who make up the state administration. And the problem in Croatia has just been devastated by the state administration in which people are poorly paid, in which the personnel are selected by party key of similarity, in which no one is sure of their actions unless they have powerful protectors and will not be obeyed. As a result of the work of such a state administration, i.e. competent ministries may be best able to illustrate the following fact. The island of Malta has 520,000 inhabitants and is 316 km2. Our island Hvar is 297 km2, and has 12,000 inhabitants. Why this comparison? It speaks of all the potentials of Croatian islands, which unfortunately have not been used. Our Croatian boaters call it the European Caribbean. Next, given the beauty and speciality, and the perfect geographical position of the Croatian islands in the heart of Europe, we should have a population growth and large investment in islands. Unfortunately, for always the same reason that is the source of all Croatian Halls, this is not happening, and the source of all Croatian Halls is the dysfunction of the rule of law and inequality before the laws. The island of Hvar and Pellegrin, a hunting ground of nearly 6 million m2 is famous for its state tycoon, Tedeschi, pays 1000.000 kuna. The entire area was fenced for itself, while Croatian forests maintain its roads and forests. So the state even subsidized him because maintenance costs are far higher than the concession he pays. Now let's imagine that, through international public competition, we chose a top tourist partner who could make hunting grounds for the most luxurious tourism, how much tourist income, and all the benefits the island of Hvar could achieve. However, law enforcement or the rule of law means the application of the law literally, not the communist Balkan agreedly creatively, means that the competition for a single beach, for a hunting grounds, for any kind of public resource gets the best and the best quality. In the case of Tedeschi, it is clear that this pearl he uses on our account, which prevents development because he uses it only for himself and for his deep - state and communist youth family, it is clear that he did not get the pearl as the best bidder but because he is like him. And again, we have a key problem, who tolerates public robbery? Who tolerates breaking the law? Who refuses foreign investors? Who kills the creative entrepreneurial spirit of the Croatian nation? The answer is known to all Croatian citizens, it is the judiciary, politics and media because every law is a dead letter on paper unless it is effectively implemented, and unless there are sanctions for not respecting it. Of course I will vote against these amendments for these reasons, but also for the reason that you did not respect the proposal at all, for example, the Sibenik-Knin County on the good transport connection of the island i.e. ensure that this link is improved because the island's good transport connection is a prerequisite for all preconditions to stop emigration and create preconditions for re-population. The time will come when through an efficient investment policy, and the literal application of the laws of the Croatian islands will become an investment driver throughout Croatia. Of course not with this political set of HDZ, SDP, HNS, SDSS and continue down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35220	Now it's Mr. Rade Simičević's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35221	I would like to thank Vice President HS, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands, which I welcome with the aim of continuing to invest in the development of the pearls of the Croatian sea, which is our Croatian islands and I give unreserved support to such investment. He who is an islander or who is not, and he lived on the island knows how long before the islands were lagging behind in everyday life compared to today’s. I'm just going to mention some of the things I thought I'd say, and they're important, they're about the amendments to the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. More than 2 billion kunas were invested in Croatian islands, out of which one billion and 900 thousand kunas from European funds, means grants, and about 205 million kuna of credit funds. I also want to mention the City of Zadar, which is of all cities, and which have islands in their units of local self-government, has withdrawn the most funds from European funds, and there are islands of East, Iz, Olib, Silba, Premuda, Molat and Shkarda. What is vital to survival on the island is the connection of the island from the mainland. There this government invested quite a lot of money, somewhere as far as I could see over 300 million kunas in five coastal counties and six are the means for ships connecting other counties. So in the Primorje-Gorski County 21 million 500 thousand kuna, Zadar County 84 million, Sibenik-Kninska 22 million, Split-Dalmatia County 57 million, Dubrovnik-Neretva County 37 and lines connecting more counties of 90 million kuna. This investment has created additional value through a number of lines, and therefore a greater possibility of leaving and returning from the island. And we know that before it was impossible to get to the island than one time in one day, now that thank God has changed and more investment needs to be invested. By amending and supplementing the law, it concerns primarily the transposition of the provisions of the Regulation amending the Law on Islands into the legislative framework which entered into force on 4 July. The Regulation amends the Article. 33. The island law in order to quickly ensure an additional amount of water for islanders who have a residence on the island, which are not connected to a water supply network from 45 m3 to 85 m3, which is commendable. And also here, this measure has been extended for those islanders dealing with the economy, which is subsidized by 50% of the water used. The law also further regulates activities related to the Croatian island product, so that the HOP label is free of charge financed by the funds allocated in the administrative procedure, which means that the man is publicly in the competition, obtained funds and can present his products. The proposal for a law is consistent with all the resolution bodies and the exposed bodies of regional and local self-government and what is important to these changes, normative changes do not reduce or do not reflect the acquired rights of the islanders but extend them further, upgrade and improve them to reduce the differences of life on the island or on land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35222	Stay, you have two replicas, three replicas. The first line has Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35223	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. You mentioned the City of Zadar and how in its composition there are many islands that must be cared for by the county itself, which has eight larger islands and about 300 smaller islands, and we know how difficult it is to organize there and life and development and what the problem is in water supply and what it will mean for the very people and tourists who come to these islands. It is also important to say how worried she was in previous years when the ports were built on certain islands in our area, as well as everywhere else, and so that the Preko municipality among the first resolved the issue of delivery or care for patients with a fast ship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35224	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35225	I thank my colleagues for asking. Yes, I once again commend the administration of the City of Zadar who have made a lot of effort to apply to European funds and take so much money and also to Zadar County. Clearly, the entire infrastructure needs to be built to raise the quality of life, clearly that if we have lines we must also have arranged waterfronts where these ships will stop. As for water, if I were one of the people who lives on the island and trust me if you came back from the island home to the apartment then you'd let all the taps go to hear the water flow because I didn't have the privilege here while I was on the island is simply you had a limit on water consumption. So every new investment certainly encourages all people living on the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35226	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Simičević, you have a personal experience of life on the island and all the challenges that the island's inhabitants today face in Croatia, so you mentioned the problem of water supplying through these changes to the law, but you stressed that there were significant investments of more than 2 billion kunas to improve the infrastructure and life of people on the islands. I'm interested in your perspective on what might now be a priority yet to do to encourage people to really stay alive on the islands?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35228	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35229	Thank you, dear colleagues. Yeah, I think there's now a certain level of connection between the island and the mainland. What would be extremely important is to invest in the infrastructure to preserve jobs or create new jobs because unfortunately, we are less and less and not only on land but also on islands. So we must certainly do everything we can to keep the Croats in Croatia, how to give him a job because it is actually the safety he requires that, clearly, through the workplace, he can feed the family and create added values, not only for his family but also for the community, and if we make another step in this direction, there will certainly be more and more inhabitants on the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35230	- Mrs. Crescent. Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35231	Grief on Croatian islands, but also throughout Croatia because of your policy and your way of ruling, Mr. Šimičević. You know, today you have witnessed it again here in the Croatian Parliament, you have boasted here with your colleagues of corruption and clapped in this assembly of Shex's judiciary for releasing the charges of corruption of your Kalmet and the rest of Calmeta. We know what kind of justice it is, we read regularly in the newspapers with whom and where they hang out, in which taverns, clubs, etc. Yes, Mr. Šimičević, you and the HDZ Summit and your partners do have results and they are measurable, and they say that you have succeeded in bringing Croats into the EU to the others in order of the weakest in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35232	Here's your answer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. All right, here you go. Mr. Habian, come in. There's two of them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35233	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Two of them? It's one. Two. Okay. Here you go.]] Injury. 238 century 1, so the colleague here refers to something that is not at all the subject of this agenda, so the colleague talked about the draft law which is on the agenda, the colleague was talking about something that is not at all related and it is not the first time along this agenda, and of course, as her custom, she insulted actually the representatives of all here on the left, so from HDZ. I think he deserves a warning. ct
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35234	- Mrs. Crescent. Kristo referred to one of the polemics that had been here before in this House, in between, there was one controversy, so I won't give a warning to you or to her, and I'll give her my word. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35235	Art. 238 and at the cost of warning, Kristo here plays the judiciary and judge who judges and judges someone's guilt, she has neither the right nor the right, therefore, I think this is the way she communicates is rude, at the very least.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35236	This is what you know, ma'am. I think I have to give you a heads-up because it's this one, because it was a replica from Mrs. Pryce. A cross Mr. Shimičević will now answer. I have to give you a warning, and I'm terribly uncomfortable with all the warnings I have to make and the ones I've given today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35237	I thank the Vice President, the honourable MPs, yes, I thought I would stay within the framework of the subject or the amendment of the law and the addition of the Island Act. But what you want to say here on the big bells is that someone convicted who isn't convicted, so I want to tell the truth, you can think whatever you want, but the truth is quite something else. Whether we need the judiciary, whether we need the Parliament, whether we're good or not, I don't know what's wrong with your eyes, just you, and that's not a good way to do it, and you also have to be self-critical when you're giving, you're making certain statements. Of course, as a man who loves his country, I'm not always happy, I want everyone to be better, but that's how we muddle everyone, and that's just you being right, it's not even Croatian, it's neither Christian nor Christian. Please don't do that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a way to perform more. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35238	Well, thank you very much. These were replicas, and here we are, we're stopping here, and now let's all freshen up together, physically, mentally and spatially. It's 2:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.41 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35240	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, as an islander today, I was glad to hear that I saw both colleagues' opinions and from the island, but also from the continent as they experience us in a certain way, so regardless of whether there was any criticism, it was nice to hear, someone saw us today what it looks like when he goes on vacation, and I'm calling them these days, when it was that storm, let's say, 200 o'clock, so when you have a patient who can't get a helicopter or any boat taken, and he's, like, cut off half his legs, and he needs to get to the hospital, but not to Lošinj, from Suska to Lošinj, but has to get to Rijeka. Well, these situations should talk about how we react and manage and survive in these situations, and this here, whether there will be a time and a kuna more down, water, it's all debateable and we can solve it all. Today, however, we need to understand that we are practically discussing a law that has already been partially resolved by a regulation. Therefore, something is already in place, specifically about water we already regulated last year, so that part has practically passed, it only gets the power of the law, what the regulation has settled for the time before the Parliament was gone. I'd, uh, mention, there were a lot of questions, of course, that's the most important thing for us to do is connect. When we say 24 ferry lines, 15 high-speed, 12 classic lines co-financed with 329 million kunas a year. That, in 2019, 2020, a practically increased number of passengers and vehicles on these lines and that, as an islander, I can say that we have a very good connection, that practically in the morning from 5 o'clock to half of the night, you can come and leave the island, which is certain a huge step that this government has seen, seen and found the means, so that we can also have high-quality transportation today, and not just weather transport. Today, the same thing has been mentioned many times, and that medical section is reportedly missing on the islands, including water supply, so here I am going to give you some examples that may be more visible and understandable. So, as I said today, two first desalinationers, the island of the Union and the island of Susak. The island of Susak has a vast complete network of water and a network of sewers. A desalinisator has been created in the Unions and a network of water and a network of sewers is being developed. The island of Ilovik, I speak, the Union 50 inhabitants, Susak 150, the island of Ilovik 70 inhabitants, 15 million kunas of water under the sea drained, there is direct water, so there is no desalininger or waterbender problem, but a directly solved issue of water, as it has in Rijeka, there is 70 inhabitants on the island of Ilovik, where the issue of water has been solved and now, let's say, one of the largest, I think, one of the second largest, investments, the coves of Death which is connected to the same island of Ilovik, for these 70 inhabitants, the state line 5 times a day. Ten of them go to work, to school kids, every morning and afternoon they can come back. It is proof of concern in such places as this state has invested that those three, four children, say, of the island of Ilovika can go to school every morning, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, and go to work and return, and for this reason as many as 5 new companies have registered on one island of Ilovik, companies are registered and more and more children live there and the school there even on the island of Ilovik has as 10 students. So these shifts are visible, which thanks to the government, understanding, everything that is done, from, I say, medical services, there are two interns in Losinj, cardiologist, gynecologist, specialists, general practitioners, etc. So the issue of helicopter transport stationed on the island of Krk has been resolved, we have 2 million overnight stays, which is 6, 7 per night in the Republic of Croatia. 20 percent, so the nights and stays of tourists are on the islands. So, the recognised islands are very well, the islands are doing a lot of work on sustainable development projects and plans, and as such they are recognised, and therefore they have such a number of tourists and especially on this ecological part and through various projects which are therefore being done, and since they are being obtained, the purchase of 5 fast ships that will transport patients from smaller islands to land. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35241	Thank you very much. You have replicas. The first line has Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35242	Thank you very much. Comrade Cappelli, you've been Mayor of Little Losinj three times, and I want you to be the mayor of our Primorje-Gorski County, what I'm saying is, we're taking away some of these stories that have been tried here today, that the state is to blame for every water supply system, management, etc., you've been mayor, we know what we have on the islands. We may have built, on most smaller islands, infrastructure, the problem is the water supply to that infrastructure. So we can have... We can have everything, up to all the houses, but the waters on the island then are gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either they're taking the submarine route or they're driving the plumbers, etc., all that state pays and subsidizes. What we are doing today to increase the total number of cubes per household member is good for everyone because then in summer, when the biggest consumption is, these people can adapt to it and can deal with economic activity, mostly tourism. We also help economies, up to 50% of their consumption of that same water, we also subsidize and we regret when colleagues are really trying to bring this debate into consciousness either in a bad way or in another direction. I think we've shown that islands together I can make progress if the policies agree. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35243	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35244	Thank you very much. So here, Mr. Boric, thanks to these very decisions of increasing the water subsidy on these small islands as I mentioned one, the island of Susak or Ilovik, you have now apartments 4, 5 stars because they have the possibility of water, a good policy run by these companies, so from these companies that are on the islands, there have been good projects, they have been followed by European funds and today I say, in such even remote islands, we have even a network of water and sewerage with I say, desalinizers, therefore one huge concept, of course, purifiers in the sea, etc., so this is proof that these are good policy-making of such companies which, of course, have nothing to do with the state, they already have to do their own policy and their own prices with the foundation and investment and everything that they provide.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35245	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35246	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Cappelli, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, you're right, Mr. Cappelli, when you said that this coordination for or raising the subsidized amount of water was already done in the July regulation when you and I were ministers. So it allowed more than 7,000 islanders to consume this right last summer and have subsidized water at a larger amount. The second thing, you said yourself, you came from the island, the minister pointed out that over a billion kn was invested in ports, as far as I saw from the media, the last contract signed precisely for your island of Losinj, 57 million kn, so here as an islander, what does that Renaissance that Minister Butkovic announces in port development mean to you as an islander means one such project?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35247	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35248	So specifically, the port that's starting to build these days, somewhere with VAT and it all comes up somewhere almost 80 million, it's one of the biggest investments. So the ultimate island will connect, so Losinj with the possibility of connecting the island of Pag and the island of Rab. The trip to Dalmatia will be cut short in an hour and a while. So, the complete and possibility of course, specifically from the island of Ilovik, Silba, Olib, etc., to have a new port, even closer north to this central i.e. South Adriatic. So, a very important project, these projects of connecting exactly and making these new reefs have led to exactly what I've told you, so the number of children born on the island, specifically in Ilovik, has already 10 children who will be there at school, the regional school that exists there, one of those children who are from the island of Ilovik was born no less or more on a helicopter on the way from Mali Lošinj to Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35249	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cappelly, you spoke of the importance of this synergy of people who are in charge of ensuring a normal, dignified life on the island as well as central government. You obviously managed very successfully to smooth it out when it comes to Lošinj, according to all the projects you listed and which all those who visited Lošinj could see in person. What interests me is that we know that somehow tourism is the most present as a kind of economic activity that dominates islands and islands is very interesting to tourists who come from different countries of the world, so it can create the impression that sometimes even excessive pressures on islands can be created. You come from an island that is an island of vitality, which rises with many titles of sustainable development, so I would ask you to say that you have managed to reconcile these two aspects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35251	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35252	Well, we're, thank you very much, Vice President, we've just been restricted by spatial plans, development, yes, but limited to one limit, protection especially. We have a blue world down there, so one of the strongest centres in the Mediterranean as regards the protection of submarines and dolphins in the area, the northern area between us, we can say, Losinj and Rab and Pag, so there is an area of protection of dolphins that we have specifically protected, and we're just saying that this is one part of the approach to ecological conservation of the environment and in the northern part of it, it's very careful exactly about the discharges in the sea and the sewer system, although from 8500 now, in the summer, there are as much as 30,000 of us, but I'm saying, I'm particularly looking at that approach, way, therefore, environmentalism in the first place, the preservation of everything and the Apoxiomen as such cultural treasure the state has just had the sense and the government to put it right in such places and not in large centres, and thus that there is an additional possibility of activity and cultural tourism tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35253	Thank you, time. Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35254	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will support the Amendments and Supplements Act and I will say a few words to that effect. The basic law, i.e. the first state law, was passed in 1999 and I have already said many times about this speaker that I have worked locally and now in the state administration, I do not think there have been as many good operational laws in Croatia as the Island Act. Since the first day of power, the island law has brought a number of concrete improvements to improve living conditions on Croatian islands. From and from this topic that I support, it is to increase the amount of the subsidized price for islanders who are not connected to the public water supply system, transport connections, construction of ports, subsidisation of the economy, designing of Croatian island products, designing today I don't know if anyone mentioned it at all, the project of subsidising an employer who has a seat on the island for each of his employees who has... on the island, it is at an annual level of around 10 million kunas that are passed on to island economies and eventually end up with workers, employees of the employer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And others, when it comes to education and health care, are numerous, many measures have been passed by that law. Two years ago, two, five years ago. When we passed the Island Law, I said that we were in those 18 or 19 years. The implementation of the old law practically consumed measures and that we must take a step forward and that law as set out in 2018. Now it represents this step forward that we have in a certain way and this, and these amendments of the law are being complemented. How well we came up with back then in '99. The measures indicate that Croatian islands as a rare part of Croatia between two censuses just at the time of the first implementation of the law increased the population from 125,500 to 132,600. In the 10-year period, the islands partly increased the population around 6% thanks to the fact. On the other hand, the islands stand out about a billion and 800 million kuna on an annual basis for various projects, subsidies, the most to improve the transport connections of Croatian, Croatian islands. But it should also be said that every 4th kuna in Croatian tourism is achieved on Croatian islands. Some 4 million tourists visit Croatia's islands with 26 million nights which, as many as, how many tourists spend on Croatian islands. Therefore, Croatian islands are partly, and since it is very important to mention, given the importance and proportion of tourism in Croatia's GDP, Croatian islands are significant drivers, drivers of economic development in Croatia. That is why I am looking at all investments in Croatian islands today, not only because the population on the islands would survive, which is good and commendable and what should be done for every part of Croatia, but what is important is that we invest in the future of Croatia, largely and in the development of tourism, but also agriculture and shipbuilding and fishing and all those economic activities that are indigenous to Croatia's islands, and then I would mention one of the major and important projects that the government, i.e. the Ministry of Maritime Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure through the "Renaissance on Croatian Islands" project. Only in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County yesterday was I on this one investment on the island of Kalamoti or Kolocep where we are building a single port, 9 ports that are exclusively in the connection of Croatian islands whether they are on land, and then they are for the transport connection of the island or on the islands we invest in these 9 ports over 120 million EUR and all these projects are currently developing in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, that I am not saying that the Pelješki bridge is in the function of joining Croatia in the development of Peljesac Peninsula which is, in the sense of the Law of the Islands of the island of Mljet, Lastova, and certainly my Korčula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35255	Thank you very much. You have several replicas, the first replica has Mr. Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35256	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, I fully agree with your debate and the purpose of this law would certainly be to create better living conditions for our citizens on Croatian islands. However, listening to today's debate and replicas where certain questions are raised that may have nothing to do with this law, but they have to do with life on the islands, and then we experience that it is precisely from the HDZ ranks, especially representatives who come from the island, at the doctorate and hold lectures that it is not a matter of law and this government, but that it is on a local level. I'll give you an example where citizens are bitter and abandoned, and that applies to the Preko municipality. So the people of Ugljan and Pasman pay 6 kuna an hour for the entire winter parking in the port, the ferry port of Preko. HDZ is in power in the county, HDZ is in power in the Preko municipality, so here you as an influential person decide not to make these citizens so bitter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35257	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35258	I thank my colleague Demetlik. I'm just briefly talking about the '99 Island Act. He intended to mention that this law was based on the National Development Program of the Island and that I failed to say it, so I thank you for this replica. I expect that the government, as soon as possible, I hope by the end of this summer, this spring assembly session will bring the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands, because it will be the basis for then the plans for the development of the islands brought by the JLS, what Mr Demetlika was talking about. That fellow Demetlika, the parking authority, you were the longtime mayor of Labin, is in charge of city administration, city council, city, JLS. Whether it's a good thing you're saying, and whether it's everywhere or not, we're going to see what the citizens are going to say in the May 16th elections, I believe there are some valid reasons why the Preko Municipality is doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, of the 1244 islands in Croatia, 67 of them, we have residents who need to ensure a decent life and, of course, keep them on these islands. One of the valuable projects in which you personally participated I believe that you are proud of it is Croatian island product. I wonder how much, according to your information, this project has helped develop agriculture on islands and sell such agricultural food products, and do you think that according to the model of the Croatian island product, quality standards and other agricultural products could be prescribed to make this a rule in Croatia so that we can place our domestic product on our market in a easier way?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35261	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35262	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Petyr. I remember, it was 2007. When we brought the Croatian island product, the presentation of the project was in Split. One of the indigenous parts of that promotion was the loading music from Ugljan, and the whole project contributed greatly, very much to the promotion of island products. On the one hand, it guarantees the customer the autochtivity, originality and production according to the traditional way of production. And I think that is an island product, and at this point 900 of them seem to me to be island products in Croatia already bear that designation of originality, autochtony and virtue. And I think, here we mention this island product in which we will further co-finance the organizers under this law, but I think I would also suggest that we take one step further. that those top island products are further stimulated to make it easier to find a buyer. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35263	Thank you. Mrs. Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35264	Mr. Bačić comes from Korčula, so I wonder how it was possible that the reconstruction of the road that has since 171 million kunas 145 comes from European funds to be given a building permit without being appreciated that there is an opinion of the Ministry about environmental impact before and now it is said that this will be added later? I don't know how our European co-financers do that. In this case, the chief financiers support, how is it possible that this happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35265	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35266	Thank you, Mrs. Boric. I mentioned a renaissance on Croatian islands earlier, in my county there are nine ports that are in operation, building or under construction, or a contract has been signed, or it is already at the end of the work to connect the island in my county. One of the ports is Luka Polacište on the island of Korčula a new port on the eastern part of the island next to the town of Korčula which will bring the peninsula of Peljesac even closer to Korčula and thus shorten the journey. One of the most important in addition to this port on the island of Korcula is the investment of the road that connects that port to the settlement of Rasčisje and for which the European funds amounting to 171 million kuna are provided. In the process of issuing a building permit, one part of the segment of the environmental impact assessment was not evaluated as needed, above all, the part relating to maritime well-being Now it's in the process of change [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] I don't see anything too controversial about it myself. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bačić, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35267	Thank you. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35268	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here we heard one... it is a private parking lot about the concession, there is a difference between municipal parking, city parking and Istria, and then in winter months there is no charge more or less, if a private concessionaire who is with me at Rab in Luka charges who will park the salary, who will not have municipal or city free. As for our efforts to provide the islands with the most important, transport connection, 2004-2011.You were the secretary of state and together we made great investments in ports, a little bit just stopped, now further upgrades of all these ports. They were existing ports, but now we still want more means, better ferry, more lines, less or shorter lines, and of course that requires certain investments. Over a billion kuna, which comes from European funds which from the annual funding of national funds this year is about 80 million kuna. It allows us what's most important on the islands, security in traffic connection, and of course you can say that you're free to communicate, we've introduced night lines, we're not closed anymore at eight o'clock and that's what the islanders are doing. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35270	I thank my colleague, Boric. I remember that time when we took care of Croatian islands together and brought in a number of projects. Today we did not mention the CEP 4 from which more than 40 facilities were financed in the healthcare system of homes of health, medical care, project Water supply of construction of a number of water supply systems and disposal systems, construction of kindergartens, etc., etc. What we think is done at the time is very much, and that is the traffic connection between the Croatian islands. Only Jadrolini, as a long time almost a shipowner who rolled over 10% of all lines on Croatian islands, invested huge funds in the restoration of the fleet. Today Jadrolinija is one of the few European shipowners who remains state-owned and, neatly, connects Croatia's islands in quality, while making it clear that there is a step further in this transport connection, strengthens and enables market access in the distribution of these lines, and I believe that today's islands are very well connected thanks to these projects that you mentioned, and the power of the shipowners.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35271	Thank you. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35272	Thank you. Dear Representatives in your presentation in some way you have touched all the legislative changes that concern our islands, practically since the creation of the Croatian state, and here from everything you have pointed out, you believe that the quality of life on the islands has improved. What is stated in the reasoning of the law is that the basic issues that are governed by this law also show that the scope of the norms and laws relating to the islands is large. I would have concluded, a lot of norms, a lot of rules, a lot of laws, and life on the islands is getting smaller. The reality that our citizens live on islands is different from that that you have signed up for and I am responsible for saying that this quality of life cannot change unless we reduce the number of administrations in these islands in favour of public services. Do you plan to reduce the number of administrative units in any future normative arrangement, the number of council members on islands, and the number of hospitals, schools, and other services in the area of public service?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35273	Thank you. I'd ask you to go sit down if you're two. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35274	Thank you, Mrs. Oreshkovic. I didn't say all the most important laws there was no time, I didn't mention the Law on Liner Main Maritime Traffic, which is almost equally important to the Law on Islands, I didn't mention the Law on Maritime Goodness, which is very, very important to life on the islands. But what I'm about to answer is, when this territorial structure was formed in 1993. before and before its adoption, it was necessary to make referendums across the former local communities on whether citizens on islands and in Croatia, not only on the islands agree with this bill by many residents, almost all inhabitants on Croatian islands supported such a solution that came from the Law on the areas of towns, municipalities and counties in the Republic of Croatia, and then it is clear, somewhere around 40 units of local self-government and 7 counties that cover those islands. So, today's debate, it's an islander's wish. And I don't know how someone else who doesn't live there knows better than them what their territorial structure should be. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35275	Time, Mr. Bacic. Mr. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35276	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Bačić, you told us in your presentation how pleasant and safe our islands are for life on islands, you talked about how many tourists visit them, you said 4 million tourists and 26 million overnight stays are, so these are also our Croatian islands, exceptional tourist and destination and, in addition, a positive contribution for the Republic of Croatia- Do you think that in the future our islands should because of all the potentials they have, both the sun and the sea, and everything else that is stated, do you think that in the future we can experience that the islands have an entire tourism business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35277	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35278	Thank you, ma'am. Baricevic. As an islander who comes from Brac, you are also very familiar with the problem of the economy of small entrepreneurs, tourist life on Croatian islands. I think this law through the Syntagma of Smart Island goes a step beyond that 1999 law, and then we had to solve the most existential ones, such as transport connections, water supply, energy and health care, education, etc., that's this '99 law. He took another step. This law must now make that new step. And this is that through that syntagm of smart island, a self-sustaining island, an island car that deals with autochton activity, it is attractive, what you said, for an entire year's tourist stay on the island and the island as your Brac, for example, can provide it in an infrastructure sense without any problem. Now it is necessary for the state through the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands to take that step and show what this legally means to a smart island and I believe that through the national programme we will be able to testify.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35279	And at the end of the day, Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35280	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, we all know that the coast is being destroyed for decades, most often under the cover of development behind which some and particular interests are then, you could say, the ground floor, private interests of political counterparts in the area and with local and state authorities. The most common is through the award of concessions for the use of maritime goods and the other kind of destruction of the coast is the primitive destruction of the natural coast, grinding of rocky shores, concretes, spilling of unsuitable materials, construction of large buildings on the coast, etc. So the length of the coastal line on the islands is higher than, slightly greater than 4000 kilometers, how do you propose to prevent the destruction of maritime goods?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35281	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35282	Thank you, ma'am. It's a pulac. If I'm an opponent of something that's happening on the islands, then it's just these illegal constructions and, in particular, illegal construction on the marine good. As Minister, I am the author of the Law on Legalisation or the procedure for the legalization of illegal buildings. For this reason, more because of the fact that we implemented the process of making an orthophoto of the entire Croatia, where we know today, who wants to check what was built in Croatia after 21 June 2011 and what is illegal. And I'm a supporter that everything that's been built illegally after that, the moment it collapses. In order to stop what we can see from the map, and what's happening to you at the moment I'm replicating, we need to strengthen the building inspection, crash at the same time, stop the moment, sometimes a man builds a house when he moves in, and then we're going to crash, and then we get both social and economic and any other problem. Therefore, a quick and effective inspection that will stop any construction immediately at the beginning. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Irregular clear, illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35283	No more replicas, Mr. Bacic. And now it's Mr. Marko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35284	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. Well, I'm listening to this debate of the Island Law, and I was just about to go, I didn't think so, but I would go with what Mr. Bacic said, this government and this position are listening to the islanders. The demands that have been made, yes. Mr. Bauk, we listen to you too, the demands that have been made in this, are the result specifically for the government's regulation on water, the result and the meeting where I am then as Minister of Regional Development, regardless of party membership, we have gathered in Zadar all the local committee chiefs who have had the problem, they have demanded this increase and we have come to the meeting, then the Parliament has not sat down, we have gone with a government regulation that has been implemented and is now being transposed into this law. When the price question was on the island of Capri, as well as who minister went to Sibenik, I also sat down with Mr. Malenico from the water and sewerage, we sat down with the mayor, we solved the problem, there was a question that the accounts were wrongly issued, they were recalculated, the citizens were apologized and everything was settled. Thus, this law goes in favor of islanders and the wishes of people on the island to increase the amount of water in the islands. We also want a greater participation of those who live on islands, therefore the issue of the composition of the island council, the issue of harmonisation with the Law on the Strategic Planning System, everything goes hand in hand so that the islanders can plan and manage their islands better and strategically. And that's why I'm surprised when, I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Miletic, when he talks about Prvic, the basic summer is on Pvić every year, but every year I sit with these people for coffee, I ask them what is the main problem and it's not the main problem of the price, prices in the shop are already the main issue of sewage, purification and availability issues, availability of ferrys on the island. And that's exactly where we have a Renaissance, as my predecessors have said, availability on the construction of an onion over a billion kuna. When I spoke with Minister Butkovic and watched and for the sake of covid and everything where savings were needed to buy masks and protective equipment, he said just don't touch the port. And it's just been agreed at government level to finance all ports, and that when we see how much the whole package's deal is over 113% is the contract of the entire financial envelope. It's these billions of kunas for ports that mostly go for harbors, seaports, waterfronts, we've heard from Mr. Bačić, Cappelli and all the others who live on the islands, which means living on the island. In addition, significant means of employment, for smart islands. The question of water is here and as someone who has dealt with and water protection I have also organised several conferences on water protection, specifically on Vis Island where we have discussed solving issues and water for the island of Vis not only desalinings, not only by plumbing, perhaps the solution is also from the Dubrovnik plant, water entering the sea that reduces the saltiness of the sea, perhaps that drinking water could be used to supply the island. It is not realistic that every island provides, provides water, simply looks at the density of the population and what is the reality of the investment, and is not possible for every such investment to earn European resources, but for innovative solutions and smart islands, and therefore congratulations and state secretary and minister and assistants Huzak who has done a lot for Croatian islands that are precisely smart islands, smart solutions are considered in the next financial envelope, as a new vision and ferry may be discussed, which will be acceptable to renewable energy sources in the green plan, and will allow for a better connection between our islands. I am proud that one of these projects is also in my Sibenik area, including Prvic, will be tied to the field, which may be the construction of a speedboat that will be on renewable energy sources and allow for better integration of the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35285	Thank you, too. Mr. Miletić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35286	The Honorable Chairman. My colleague Pavić, so you just mentioned me, so I'd like to replicate here for the sake of the public and for the sake of the people of Prvic, I've calculated 16 years. I've been coming to Prviæ by this summer of 16 years. But as we mention Prvic and nothing of course against Prvic, Šepurina are beautiful and Prvic and we all know it. But when you mention the islands and care about the islands how you comment that only 10 minutes of boat rides, easy rides you get to the Dragon, that it's a dragon release island, let go of the island, and that there's an illegal villa built on it, and that the waterfront is confused, and what are you going to do as ruling here to help solve this big problem of illegal construction, villas on a desert island, and then renting through booking and everything else, here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35287	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35288	So I can answer you that any illegal construction should be registered to the competent services and that inspections should be resolved, so that it is on the inspection side to solve it. If you've reported it, I congratulate you on that. And what I was about to say is also that it's not the same thing to spend summers on an island and live on an island. I, as well as the minister who was resolute to the islands, did not give myself the right to smarten the daggers, to smart the islanders, I simply came, I listened, and when it was a matter of water we had a meeting in Zadar of all local committees regardless of party membership to solve. When it was at Caprio, we had a meeting with the mayor. When there was any problem for any island, Losinj, anywhere where HDZ is not in power we came, we listened and we tried to offer a solution. This is the approach of this government, Andrej Plenkovic, and we will continue to have this approach in regional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35289	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As minister of the islands as minister of regional development, you have practically been acting as a government regulation in June, it seems to me that last year a large part of this bill has been anated since it was a time when the assembly was disbanded. What I wanted to ask you and it was very well received last year, and that's these laws now and accepted. One thing for me would beg you just as Minister of Regional Development and European Funds. At this point, as much information as I have, the government is doing two projects, two important programs. One program is the National Development Program of the Island, and the other is the Recovery and Resistance Programme. Since the Programme of Recovery and Resistance in financial terms weighs somewhere around $9.9.4 billion, so about 9 billion kuna, I would be happy, and you are dealing with this when this National Development Programme of the Island could be largely supported, supported and recognised in the Recovery Programme and thus finance important EU projects through these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35291	Thank you. And finally Mr. Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was encouraged by my colleague Pavić by your discussion when you mentioned the reality of the investments. And that's exactly the question I want to ask about the justification of investments that you've nicely boasted about in the past I don't know how many years it's been built and built new reefs, new ports, it's just the question then the opposite, if all this is so good for which reason in the last 30 years is 50% less population on our islands? Were these investments just justified to invest in such facilities, not in facilities that would keep people there and offer them an economy? One example I'm going to tell you is that the California fishing port is now being built, if it had been built maybe 20 years ago, that fishing activity would have been detained and people would have stayed on those islands. It means the reality of investment, the justification of investment and how to keep people if so, if we are so successful with the Island Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35293	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35294	Thank you for asking my colleague Demetlika, I'm sorry you may not know the EU fund procedure, but let me get this straight. Most of these projects are followed by Jaspers. And to get them from the European Commission at all, and Jaspers is your support to the European Commission in some form of a consultant paid by the European Commission to help Member States develop projects. For a Member State, this service is free of charge from Brussels. In order for you to get a deal from Jaspers, you have to show justification for the investment. In other words, some of the ideas that we wanted to finance as a water supply on some small populated islands said were not cost-effective. All these major projects that we called the Renaissance of the development of Croatian islands have shown and passed the criteria of eligibility for investment. What was 20 years ago I don't know, I know what was in the government of Andrej Plenkovic which billions of kunas are at our disposal and how many islands are now large construction sites which are justified and confirmed from Brussels. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35295	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, in order to eliminate as much as possible the barriers stemming from the island's traffic isolation today, the need for more intensive development and the application of new technologies such as: telemedicine. The importance of using telemedical services is being expanded. Telemedicine has already been introduced to the Croatian islands and makes up a total of 10.6 procedures and has been conducted, as a percentage, and has been conducted in 7 health institutions and the number of 29 active telemedicine centres. There are several areas that telemedicine covers, which are 24-hour Holter, radiology means sending pictures away and reading to health institutions as well as the area of nephrology i.e. Dialysis of neurology, neurology, emergency medicine and training of remote workers so that healthcare professionals do not have to leave the island to collect points and get new knowledge. The prerequisite for effective development of the health system and telemedicine on islands is to improve the telecommunications network in the island area in order to cover the entire areas with a signal necessary for the communication and transmission of data, and in particular the need for adequate coverage of the broadband internet. In order to achieve this, it was important to plan investment in infrastructure and information communication equipment through projects to be financed from European funds such as innovative solutions in emergency medical vehicles, video communication equipment for the transfer of vital signs of patients from the vehicle to united emergency hospital receptions, reconstruction and improvement of island facilities, county emergency medical services and health homes. Furthermore, in order to improve access to emergency health care in the islands by establishing an emergency maritime medical service, and to ensure the quality and availability of emergency services for both residents and visitors to the island, patients will be transported from the island to suitable ships with the necessary equipment, with medical staff, and these ships are also intended for cases of maritime accidents and maritime disasters. They are co-financed by EU funding with 66m kuna, the tender is completed and a contract for the construction of ships is expected. In order to ensure the availability and quality of specialist and consular health protection of the population and tourists on islands and rural areas, the health form of the so-called so-called so-called island and rural areas should also be developed. virtual infirmarys. I'm glad you're in the assembly, so virtual infirmarys are the ones that will contribute to the specialist service coming as close as possible to the patient, which means that we need to get homes of health and medical care and equip with the necessary equipment in order to, say, be a cardiologist in a Split hospital and provide a service by watching, listening and controlling the patient on the island. Through the recovery mechanism and resistance project Telecordis will allow better availability of cardiological diagnostic services, which significantly affects the timely detection of cardiological health problems through the ECG, ECG Holter, cholter pressure, 12-channel ECG at a distance, and in this way we will get as if we have a specialist and provide a specialist service to any patient who is on the island without having to leave the island. If there is anything else to add to this law, these amendments and additions to the law, the Secretary of State here is what I have said today, and it is about health care, these are only small segments of this very much, until the final proposal I ask you to think about and put it in this law to allow these very important services to be provided as soon as possible to our citizens. So far, all of this, except for what I said about the naval emergency, has been financed from the state budget. These are the things that develop the island. Health care on the island is one of the, I think the key messages that we send that is a safe island, so please include us if, as you know in that planning, it is well known to you, in that planning needs of 2012 and '13. when planning health care was not very generously represented, and that was why we actually had to secure a lot of things from the domestic, domestic state budget, and not from EU funds. If anything needs to be done by the final law, you put it on. Finally, all these activities will contribute to improving the availability and quality of healthcare, and they will also extend the tourist season through medical tourism that we should also seek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35297	Stay, stay, have your replicas, first replica has Mrs. Nikolina Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35298	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues of Grba Bujevic, here in your debate you mentioned telemedicine on islands as an improvement in the telecommunications network to cover the entire area with a signal needed for communication and data transmission. My question is, is Zadar County involved in this project?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35299	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35300	Comrade Baradić, thank you very much for this question, here is something that should certainly be improved. So Zadar County isn't involved in the telemedicine section. As I said, it is carried out in 7 health institutions and 29 active centres, and given this development we think that Zadar County should also be involved and here, please encourage both you and your local administration and self-government to actually engage in this project, and of course the Ministry to provide us with funding, Ministry of Regional through projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35301	Mrs. Devereaux. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35302	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've actually brought up a lot of things that we can agree on as a profession. So, you need to certainly develop telemedicine, especially in these conditions when there is no medical staff, and it is not available in all these scattered islands. We can also believe that you will agree with me that nothing can replace the personal contact of the doctor and the patient, but at least virtual hospitals will be some kind of help. It's important to invest in equipment, you've mentioned earlier pointover devices and so on, but of course you tend to be a doctor on the island. I'm interested in the last thing you said about the development of medical or health tourism. The fact is that we need some resources that the island has, so natural healing baths, etc., but we also need economic resources, healing areas, but of course health care personnel. What does the state do about it not just staying on the flossula that we need health tourism very much, and we know that it is underdeveloped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35303	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35304	Dear colleagues Maric, of course, I will agree in everything with you except in this last term where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought really preconditions and a framework that health tourism can seriously begin to develop. As you know before, it was not like that and it was not possible to build health tourism at all through the legislative framework. In view of this and in this perspective that is now planned, the following could also be included in health tourism for funding from European funds. Of course, health tourism should make it possible for our people and foreigners to come, because it is an economic category, and I think that really in health tourism, we have very good experts in excellent capacities, and if we expand it and invest in it, it can be an excellent economic branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35305	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Bujević, I will recall two moments of our cooperation, which have a strong connection to the islands, primarily my island of Korčula and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. More 2017. We together set up the first haematological blood analyser in an emergency hospital station in Blato, Korčula, which was then established by the government, several months later, at its meeting on Hvar, as a standard for all emergency medical centres on the islands. And the other thing, so I thank you, is to insist that Dubrovnik-Neretva County given all the geographical configuration gets a permanent annual emergency helicopter service. Today, at the Ministry of Health, our County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska was taken as a pilot project of a future emergency helicopter service that would start with April 1. Since it was one of our basic initiatives I thank you on behalf of us, down from Dubrovnik-Neretva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35307	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35308	Thank you. Comrade Bacic, today is the day of remembrance. I still remember very well all the good things we've done not only for your county, but for the steps of everyone we've done. It's just like you said, so that device, the mini lab, if we're going to call it, is actually the idea of your citizens in Blato who have shown it as a necessity, as an interest. You know that I, I'm going around the field so I wouldn't be told that I'm only in Zagreb, and I heard that right there, and you know how much we've put into it, and it's actually spread all over the coast now, and therefore from European funds, however, we've managed to get from European funds for the other islands, it's significantly improved. And you know that I don't have a holdover when I say that an emergency patient has to be taken care of urgently and you know for sure that we've been conducting a project with the police during the summer, and this is certainly a step that will improve and it's a good pilot project and we're going as paramedics to do our best to make him truly viable and that this is as best possible for the people who live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35309	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35310	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues, well you mentioned the actual importance of telemedicine and how it has been partially established in particular cardiology, nephrology and radiology and indeed in these conditions of the covid crisis we see that this would be much more effective and even more important. What is certainly important is to establish this additional education of healthcare professionals but also, what do you think would be to introduce virtual hospitals that could possibly possibly be financed by EU funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35311	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35312	As you said yourself, colleagues, telemedicine services increased by 180% in 2020 in this COVID year. It's also related part of course to the islands, it's really proved to be a good tool, the way you can't physically participate with a patient, which was good and people got that kind of service, otherwise otherwise if you hadn't established telemedicine, you couldn't get it. As far as virtual hospitals are concerned, it is so applied everywhere, it is a good way to raise the competences and skills of doctors who work on the island, who are family medicine or young doctors without specialization and who then learn to work with certain equipment let's, for example, cardiology, and then actually the one who's in Split in the hospital, let's say together they look at the patient, together they decide, it's a visible way and education, and it's good for island patients because as we know it very, that sometimes you can't translate a patient or be given... [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35313	And at the end of the day, Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35314	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujević, you have said what is the situation and everything is done to protect the health of our islanders, and here is the report on the islands for 2018 that the Ministry of Health has funded and organised the provision of health services in health tourism, for example. for the grant project to Veli Losinj, which provides for the development of later and new jobs all year round, the number of arrivals, the number of overnight stays, and what I find even more interesting, in 2019, the Ministry of Health published a call for the delivery of project proposals in a limited procedure of granting grants under the name ‘Specialistical Training of Medical Doctors’, thus signing 66 contracts specifically for the award of funds in the specialization of family medicine and pediatrics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35315	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35316	That's right, colleague Yurichev Martinchev. Why? Because investment in human resources has no price, so it's something that we all really need to be aware that without proper frame we won't be able to meet the new challenges ahead. Just as you mentioned this, so specializations are given for other other areas or provided by European funds, we are now planning and we are already in negotiations with the Ministry of Regionals, to actually make specialisations from these funds for a number of other doctors who need certain specializations that we miss and also for specialist training of nurses and technicians so that they can get better competencies in new challenges and can do several kinds of more jobs, it will be very, very important for rural areas and especially for islands then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35317	No more replicas Thank you very much. [[Grba-Bujević's Intruder: Thank you.]] Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Danica Baričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35318	Thank you, Vice President. Here, the new Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Island Act brings a series of specificities as well as our islands, so our coast with islands is one of the most divorced in the world and we often like to talk about Croatia as a country with 1000 islands. The territory of the Croatian islands is located in 7 counties, the islands are administratively situated in 59 units of local self-government and 18 towns and 41 municipalities, of which 51 units are on the island and 8 on the mainland. In Croatia's islands, through the construction of the necessary core infrastructure and different subsidies and support, the state on average invests about 1.6 billion kuna annually. We are talking here about important infrastructure projects, subsidising water prices to non-jointed water supply systems, free public road transport for certain categories of passengers on islands and in support of island employers to preserve jobs, project implementation of Croatian island product and to support the implementation of the projects of many island associations. Croatia systematically takes care of its islands, which is legally regulated by a special law that was passed in 1999 and this new island law came into place in December 2018, it was just built multi-sectoralally, just so it could take steps with time and respond to all the challenges facing the islands and subject to systematic changes. Thus, additional quantities of water would be quickly secured at a subsidized price for settlements on islands that are not connected to the public water supply system or would increase the amount of water from 45 m3 to 85 per year per island. The government of the Republic of Croatia last July just adopted a regulation on subsidising water for human consumption per island. These amendments and additions to the law transpose this Government Regulation and regulate the implementation of human consumption rights at a subsidised price, up to 50% of the transport costs delivered to natural and legal persons carrying out economic activity in island settlements, which are supplied by means of an auto-cyst or hydrogen ship. The draft amending and supplementing laws on islands have been approached not only because of the need for that regulation to be transposed into the legal framework but also because of the fact that, during the period of implementation of the measures and activities prescribed by the Island Act, certain problems that need to be further regulated and adapted to wider legal frameworks have been identified. For example, the non-compliance of certain provisions of the existing Law on Islands with the new legal framework governing the system of strategic planning and management of the development of the Republic of Croatia and the legal framework governing the management of regional development leads to the inability to adopt certain sub-legislative regulations and acts which are necessarily to be adopted under the Island Act. Here, too, it is proposed to abolish, build up island urban areas to enable the harmonisation of provisions relating to development agreements or provisions of the Island Act in relation to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. This law also partially amends the composition of the island council, given that it is prescribed that the institution of the regional coordinator may be exclusively an island coordinator, and this provision has been amended for the purpose of harmonising the level of representatives of all institutions participating in the work of the island council and thus will be able to take part by a representative of the regional coordinator, not exclusively the island coordinator. The law further regulates and implements activities around the Croatian island product in such a way as to assign the label of Croatian island products and grants for the organisation of events promoting the Croatian island product in the administrative procedure. This proposal makes it clear that the laws acquired by the island's population since 1990, in the '99s, and this first island law further extends and modernises, and the differences in the cost of living and working and the availability of basic services on the islands compared to land acceptance and implementation of this law will be further reduced and islands will become places of pleasant and quality life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35319	Thank you, too. You have one replica of Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35320	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, as far as I know, Croatia is next to Finland the only country in Europe that systematically takes care of its islands through a regulated Island Act. You pointed out in your debate all the advantages that will be taken by amending this law and how important this is in view of the cost of living on the island and of working and the availability of basic services on islands compared to those of us living on land. It should also be noted that the government of Andrej Plenkovic has formed an island administration at the Ministry of Regional Affairs, it seems to me that this is very important for the islands. As an island girl, what do you think about there's one place she really cares about and this place that she can see through European funds then contribute to the development of the island?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35321	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35322	I thank the distinguished MPs, dear colleagues, for the very life and work of 140,000 island residents is abundant in many specificities, and there are very little difference in life opportunities between smaller and larger islands, or far from land, and so there are a number of specificities about them. It was the government of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic that made sure that a new Law on Islands was passed before I said in 2018, and in its mandate there are large investments in Croatian islands. It really means to us islanders, and under his leadership, the ministry's administration has formed to take care of the islands. Also under this new law, regional development agencies have come down to form island coordinators who will systematically consider quality of life in their counties on our islands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35323	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on behalf of the club I addressed all the problems that should have been highlighted in this debate, and as you can see on my bench a few Mandarins I will try Mr. Vice President and I will be in this individual debate to show respect to the recently deceased cantator from Novi Sad that in the debate on the Island Act I will try to fit as many of their lyrics and stick to the subject. This is a story I'm very happy to tell, the island law, it required a lot of sublegal acts, and I couldn't imagine it would take you so long to bring them in. What marks the islands and makes them special is the sea. We're not afraid of the big water, they're breaking us, they're carrying us electricity, and we're still not getting carried away, and there's more of us. It's the most common white ship that drives us across that sea, and maybe we didn't know the order of the same ferry stopped, and the worst thing that could happen to us is that sailing is told by those who didn't lift the anchor. Maybe this law will blow the wind into our sails, and by then summer looks like a ringishipil to us, and winter to the slow moushon. Our islands have some problems, one of them is demographics but they've, you know, been plowing the sky field for a long time, and fewer new kids who had to move out when they were 23. People often tell me, I know you're sorry from television and say this thing with specialists on the islands, I said I'll help them as much as I can because they've been talking about it for years, but they've been failing so listen to another bar. Because of this crown, they solve something themselves in the old neighborhood, but I know what they think and in their sleep and they know me well, they're not looking for an island clock with a gold chain, but they want security, happiness, home. Many of us put in a suitcase dreams and ambitions and made them come true. I've voted three times for the island law, so I'll vote four. This law shows the state's care of certain areas is the same, and everything else is nuances. These shades are the most important thing that makes us specific, regardless of the party's love for the islands, hidden somewhere deep inside us and when the seas sink, glaciers break down and volcanoes wake it up. Sometimes in power, sometimes in opposition, you'd say a positive negative type, and you can always count on us, and that's why in the end just a call and a wish this is now mine from Prevlaka to Savudrija we go a little more wisely. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35325	And now you have two replicas, so you'll be back here. You'll be back to your colleague Bauk here? Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bauk, you encouraged me to a replica in your style of exposure, which largely refers to all the inhabitants of the island who, when they go somewhere, really have to get on the road first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35327	Answers, do you want to answer? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35328	Thanks, here's a little harder to answer now, answer unprepared. It doesn't matter, if we eat well once in a while, we'll just have tourists come to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35329	That's the whole answer, yeah, okay. Mrs. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35330	Dear Representative Bauk, first of all, congratulations to you, you have made a great commitment, so I ask you the same in this style how many new kids can count on us and some new Olivera and Olivera if on the one hand we bring here a law which, as a matter of fact, we care about islanders and, on the other hand, in 2019, the Ministry of Education invested exactly zero kuna in the islands and one of the two ministries that showed zero investment in the island report. So, for nothing, all the infrastructure we invest in if we don't invest in what's fundamental to actually revitalising the island, which is education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35331	And to you, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35332	I hope the law isn't gonna be a kid who turned into a frog, that he'll still meet his goal, and that some new kids will have not a couple but tons of Mandarin and not just a little white rabbit, but a lot more, crow horses, salsa and all that, well, there's not much salsa there but about that level. Yes, I didn't want to, I didn't want to burden myself with the heavy topics I said it on behalf of the club, and then it's my turn to wish for those who, whose job is to take care of islands and islanders to do the best, the best they can, what they can and in that sense, let them count on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35333	It's a good thing you brought Mandarins, not African plums. Mrs Grozdana Peric, please. Here you go, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35334	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, has already said a lot in the law itself but also in all the aspects of the laws that touch actually life and business on the islands. What this law now additionally regulates is precisely the primary amount of drinking water that every islander will be able to have subsidized, and that is now 85 cc's so far it has been 45. In addition, this law abolishes the establishment of island urban areas, and then partially changes the business of island coordinators, jurisdiction is changed over the adoption of the content of island development plans, the obligation to adopt an island annual programme is lifted, and the authorities of the maritime, transport and local self-government units of the region where they can also exercise the rights for the preferential transport of certain categories of people with disabilities, or persons with disabilities are re-organised, and thus other provisions relating to the Croatian island's programme are further regulated. What I would in one way meet the public is, what Zadar County e.g. and the city of Zadar itself has many islands in its administrative scope. It is over 300 smaller islands and 8 large islands and certainly the city of Zadar has in it the largest share where it had to care and edit relations how to organize water supplies. It is important to say that at the end of last year in the government, along with our mayor and the mayor, a document has been signed that will launch an excerpt of project documentation for the construction of a water supply system for the Zadar Islands, and the project should be financed by Croatian waters from the European Recovery Fund where the project holder would be the Vodavod Zadar. The project would cover the construction of a water network for the entire second ring of Zadar islands, which includes the Dugi Otok and Žverinac, which is in the municipality of Sali and all other islands belonging to the administrative area of the town of Zadar. This is worth some 470 million kn of the project itself, but it is expected that the construction of the network itself could be attached in this perspective from 2021 to 2027. Of course, part of the island has its own systems, but these systems, let's just say, the island of Preko has a water network, it's closer to the deadlock, but there are islands that have water tanks that supply their own network to actually supply the population. But there are still potentials for development and other islands, and in this way a better quality solution would be given to the problem of water supply and thus the development of tourism and possibly health tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35335	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev Martinchev was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35336	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of Perić, you spoke about the archipelago of Zadar County, so here I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I also need to say that there are six inhabited islands of Kaprije, Krapanj, Murter, Prvic, Zlarin, Žirje and NP Kornati that have an archipelago of 89 islands in our area. What is commendable is certain in the amendments to this law, the increase from 45 cc to 85 cc per year per island that is not connected to the water network. In 2018 and 2019, we had more than 10 million kn that were allocated from the state budget for this purpose and with this increase, it will certainly be significant for all islanders. With the funds allocated from the state budget, it should be said that local self-government is included, so here is my town of Vodice, each year, lagging out about a little over half a million kn for development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35337	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35338	Thank you very much. My colleagues, yes, I say, when I mentioned it, then I say that the city of Zadar itself has been participating in the price of water in order to result in a price level that is on land and still in my day while I was the head of the city of Zadar's finances, it was about a million and a half to 2 million pounds a year, with this subsidy supported and co-financed by the state budget. It is therefore very important, then, to allow all citizens on the islands to have as high quality drinking water supply as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35339	- Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35340	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleague Perić, I am interested because you are coming from Zadar County to your opinion on how much our territorial structure affects the development of our islands and here I specifically think of the island of Pag which is divided into two counties. How much does it make sense if we have an island that's still connected to this bridge on the Zadar side, to share here in your opinion in two counties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35341	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35342	So the island of Pag is just ahead of the bridge, so then it is, however, the orientation of the island itself is very strange even though it has a connection with Zadar, in some segments the island of Pag is leaning more for example. on Rijeka in terms of education and the like. And when you look at the territorial structure, it's actually Lika-Senjska and Zadar County. So I think there's a way to solve this if there's already some possibility of a deal or a contract between counties like there's a possibility between local self-government. So if it prepares quality and knows the direction of development of an island, then that barrier is not too large to be resolved either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35343	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Mariana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35344	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like, therefore, to amend this law a little bit in the debate and to talk strategically about whether we really know what we want with the islands and from the islanders. Do we want these to be reservations that will be held throughout the summer by rivers of people, or do we really want them to be areas where people live and make the whole year? What are the main events in which all year round tourist programs are being realized? What's the problem, the islands often decide, here we heard and here today through the debates are often spoken, so those who don't live on the islands or have long gone and forgotten what life on the island looks like. Each of our islands is a small piece of land. Everything that happens on it must be consistent with that measure, a small piece of land. Little is said and beautiful, everything that makes an island heritage is based on a small one. Small houses, small boats, small schools, small squares, small churches. By changing this measure, we have changed beauty and harmony and taken away the islands' most important identity definition and most important development resource. Islands cannot live or survive in competition with land. It's hard to reach them, harder and more expensive on them than on land. Therefore, the prize for the effort of arrival and life on the island must be what will welcome us on the island except beauty, peace, harmony, concentrate of taste and smell. What is produced on the island must be out of competition, because it cannot compete with price, but with beauty and quality, so we must behave, thus produce, achieve beauty, quality and expensive sell what we produce. That has to get into development strategies, so you know how much it costs to get to Korčula. You remember there was one, one picture, one meme that seemed to me, that went like this, as why you would go with your family for a week all inclusive in Greece by plane when for those same money you can ferry nicely to Korčula and back. So it's so expensive to come, time and money is spent getting to Korčula, so why would someone go on such an expensive trip? Just to find something out there that's nowhere to be found. Something special, a special feature that can't be found either on the mainland or on another island. This may be some sort of literary introduction, but it would say some kind of postulate island development. So, we can't and can't have mass tourism, we can't and can't build big, huge houses, apartment settlements, hotel chains, we can't build highways, we can't build roads consistent with landscapes, we can't, we can't let current historical settlements die, to build a new apartment on the coast itself, and in doing so, I've asked, so we've been devastated by the maritime well. We're aware here today of what's going on, concrete shores are being destroyed, stone shores are being milked, illegal construction on all sides, not to repeat that story of concessions being awarded in various ways. Likewise, for projects from the European Funds, relating to islands, there must be a specific line with specific criteria and rules of otherwise more damage than benefits. Here I heard from some of the islands, for example, incentives are given for some drywall restoration programs, but then the drywall in that program will be defined as just some kind of fence, what's inside is not covered by that program, and in fact one part of that heritage is allowed to be destroyed. As for the amendments to this Law on Islands, therefore, it is necessary to pass the proposed Law, make all islanders available water at, at an appropriate or equal price, as well as other inhabitants in Croatia and, of course, islanders must be connected to the rest of the country and as others, but more importantly, it is more important to encourage the creation and placement of products or the winter inhabitants of the island will soon become like, quotes, Indians in reservations that we will show to tourists. Let me just say, in a public debate, the same observation is important to promote economic activity on islands for self-sustainability, especially when we talk about the concept of smart islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35345	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Commissioner Puljak. You have three replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35346	Thank you very much, colleague Puljak. You're me, and you're a councilwoman in the city of Split. And the town of Split has its own piece of island, I hope you know which and whether you care about that settlement, which you contributed to that settlement. It may be unusual, but it does. And indeed, we had a story about whether the islands were well distributed into administrative units. Here's a story about an island that's in three administrative units with its surface, but it's going, and here you would like to hear what you've represented as a councilwoman when you already know what to do, let's say, and what you would contribute to that island to make it better and that these people in that village that belongs to Split really live better than it might be today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35347	Thank you very much, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35348	Thank you, esteemed representative, you're talking about Slatine, so, one of the local committees of the city of Split. So, the city of Split has 34 city halls and local committees, one of them is Slatine and here we were the other day going to watch how long it takes you to get from the center of Split to Slatin, so you need one three hours there and three hours back. So while you're on a bus in Split, then you get to Trogir, and then in Trogir you don't have a bus there every minute, until you wait for the first next line, so to Slatina you need three hours from Split. This is what should change first, therefore, that part of the city of Split, better and connected with the city. So, according to the decision of the locals themselves, according to the referendum, a long time ago, someone wonders why Slatina is even part of Split, but that's how the citizens decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35349	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35350	My colleague, I have a specific question. As you look at the problem of illegal building a villa with swimming pools on desert islands, for example, these are the hotels, if we look at the island of Zmajana, where I filed a criminal report at the 8th month, and now we'll continue to ask further institutions what they've done about it, how you look, what we can do, here in the Croatian Parliament to protect, watch out for irregular construction that someone has set up a tent, that someone in a drum, say down in Dalmatia, so that someone has entered that drum, no, a villa, solar panels, swimming pools, a roof. How is that possible? And even, imagine now, not one but continued, built another four, five objects in that area, otherwise it was nothing to you, a shepherd's one drum, and at that spot, the fairy rose up. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35351	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35352	Here you are rightly wondering, and I've been wondering all along how it's possible, how it's possible that somewhere, something is defined as some kind of barn, when you get to that barn, and that cottage with the pool, is, rather than that villa, a multi-story villa, but here I support it, it's not here, Mr. Bačić, I asked him a similar question, he said it should strengthen the building inspection, as soon as the illegal construction starts, that it collapses immediately. Well, I'm here to support him, honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35353	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative Posavec Krivec, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35354	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You have well noticed in your discussion that Croatia is truly on the islands of heritage one traditional building, historical value and everything that makes our islands today and in tourist terms special and recognized not only on Mediterranean but also on European soil. But also to keep people there, we must allow them to grow, to build, and to live in step with the time that is in the 21st century. The question arises how to balance and how to achieve this balance between what we want as a natural heritage and the geographical potential to take advantage of what we actually need to have in order to live normally from the island and perhaps work for a multinational company somewhere in the world. So, I urge and welcome the European Commission's secretariat's efforts to make the Croatian islands energy independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35355	Thank you, thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35356	Here I join you in that appeal. What I wanted to say for the end was also in the debate when I began to encourage economic activity in order to preserve the island’s self-sustainability, and to highlight that concept of smart islands, all of what it implies, sustainable development, adaptation to climate change, introduction and use of advanced technologies is whether it will enable optimal resource management, increasing the use of renewable energy sources, so all those and so on. green transition, reducing and removing water shortages and scarcity, opening here and industrial solutions for.../incomprehensible/... which will then reduce the price of water. So here we do everything we can through legal frameworks but also using all those resources and Europeans that allow us to really keep our lives on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35357	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted the replicas of your exposure. We continue with individual debates. Next up for debate, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar, came in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35358	Thank you very much for the most respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I sincerely hope that in the years to come, your esteemed lady will be even more prominent and high-ranking. Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard a lot of presentations today from our respected MPs and MPs who are either born or living on islands or living along the coast, we've heard a lot of everything, and maybe it's a little time for us Zagorci to say something about the Island Act. I'm not that inexperienced back there nearly 40 years ago I spent 400 days on the island of Vis and that I agree that it's not the same to spend summers and live on an island, it's not absolutely not. I don't know much about it, but in reading these provisions of the law, let me run through some issues for a while and still give some of my own personal perspective to them. The first part is changed in part by the composition of the island council for the purpose of unifying all representatives of the same island council. Let us as people living in Zagora in Krapina-Zagorje County a little weaker to follow the activities of the island council I believe you will understand. Today, I learned from Mr. President Bauk that they hadn't met for four years, and I see that the time has come for us to relax a little bit, so I'm really going to say that our island council looks a little bit like the famous Yeti, apparently exists but no one has seen it. Second, we regulate the privileged transport of certain categories of island population within the public road transport service on islands. We absolutely need to do everything to make life easier for the islanders. So both now and here when we regulate the subsidized or free public transport so-called. above standard. For a moment just let us remind you of the general definition of the island, part of the mainland on all 4 sides surrounded by the sea in this law is further specified that it must have an area greater than 1 km2. The size of the island where Zagorci swims is 1,230 km2 and the island has 125,000 inhabitants, but when Zagorac starts to work, he pays every mile that's traveled either in public transport or on the highway. This highway is a day in concession of Egis Road Operation Croatia, a French-owned society and we can assume what it would look like if Zagorci asked for free use of the Zagreb-Macelj highway. We know, you'll say it's land here we're talking about islands. And you're right, of course. But allow another little parallel. St. John's tunnel. Elijah cost almost six million kunas. The decision of the Government of 1 January 2018 abolished the payment and let it be. Let our property, Podbabani, Zagvožjani pass through that tunnel for free, thank God that is so, just please consider whether they have the same right and Zagorci who travel daily to Zagreb and, of course, all those from nearby places unfortunately do not have that right. Thirdly, by amending the law, we will increase the amount of water for human consumption at a subsidized price from 45 to 85 cubic metres per year, and there are, of course, subsidized prices of water or transport of the same for natural and legal persons carrying out economic activity up to a maximum of 50%. Let me ask you another question if you know who Damir Podboj, Boris Vuglec, Darko Grdan may be known to you the names of the Sine Gorica, Vuglec borg, Lojzek's hut, some of the most famous restaurants and rural tourism in Zagorje. I spoke to all three of them today. They pay for every drop of spent water. I repeat once again as regards development plans, public transport, the price of water on islands absolutely supports the right of the islanders to a better life, but let me make it clear and loud to give Zagorje an equal chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35359	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to replicas, the first replica of the distinguished representative of Jure Bourkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35360	I thank the chairman. Dear Representatives to me in a way, you've done well in your exposure, but I'm sorry that you finally brought him down to some banal parody. We are not talking about islands here, because of the island, because of geography, but because of the population and the retention of the population on those islands. I'm not saying that the life of the islanders needs to be mystified, that they're some special characters there. However, we are all aware of the difficult life on the island in this present modern time when not only live on goats, sheep and olives, olives and oils. And so because of this law, I hold that he is good and that it is necessary to help all inhabitants of the island to make their living expenses as cheap as possible to keep them on the islands. The tunnel of St. Elijah is also there to maintain the imothic landscape, as well as to promote the Makarska Riviera. If Zagreb can have free bypasses, why not both Makarska Riviera and Imotski have a free tunnel?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35361	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35362	Dear colleague Brkan, I agree completely with you, absolutely in everything you've said. I have not at any time disputed or disputed the right of any local self-government or of the entire government or of the people who lead this country to help the people who live there to stay. You mentioned, of course, many good ones themselves, unfortunately, sometimes now almost all but extinct activities on the islands. We know ourselves the dangers of mass tourism, and unfortunately we strive to do so. We should always find a balance, find a good balance between opening to tourism and protecting our natural resources, traditional crafts or skills. Of course, this includes, among other things, the ability to rule. Everyone, of course, I want to make it easier for him in life to do what is right and deserved by everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35363	Thank you. You have another replica, distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35364	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Dretar, I'm really glad that my property is driving free and going swimming on the Makarska Riviera through St. Elijah's Tunnel, I'm really glad. I'm also glad that the Zagrebers are driving for almost an hour on a free pass. But why do I have to pay from Lužana in about an hour to Jezeva 72 kuna? So, if you're from Slavonia, then you have to pay the highway, it doesn't matter any direct bus from Nasica to Zagreb, you can take the Munich bus from Nasic, but in Zagreb no, there's no bus connection. So we're not all equal and I'm saying, for everyone's sake, I'm glad, but why don't we all have the same treatment then?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35365	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35366	Dear MP Vucilović, I am obviously here with everyone today. Yes, I agree with your thesis, and I repeat again. And these are all the projects that are meant to keep people in the neighborhoods, especially here when we're discussing the Island Law. But if a man were to look on a slightly darker side and listen to your story about Slavonia, he would wonder if it was possible for someone else to leave Slavonia. Apparently, there's no one there or at least someone trying to keep you. I don't know how else to answer that, I hope we'll see some changes soon, and then eventually we'll be able to encourage them ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35367	Thank you, Your Honor. We continue with individual debates, the next is the distinguished representative Rada Boric, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35368	Ma'am. Vice President, Secretary of State. So here we are today, all of us, regardless of the law itself and its changes, still talking more about what we would like our islands to be. We all know that people on islands have historically been able to ensure a certain level of self-sufficiency and sustainability, and that water has always played a key role for them. Today, almost a monoculture of tourism often unplanned construction, a constant increase in tourism traffic which is perceived as the development of demand and an additional amount of water, and then we are certainly in trouble because bringing water from the mainland, I said something in the morning, is problematic not only because of high costs of water construction but also because of the ecological problems caused by the increased use of hydrogen from too heavy, we must not forget the karst, karst, karst eco system. So which, and this karst eco system of ours, is normally exposed to pressures due to different types of construction. In doing so, if we add different types of pollution, if we add exposure to climate change, we can really talk about the destruction of eco-systems and constructions in the sea and on land, about the problems of wastewater management and, most importantly, the notion that water supply has no limitations. This idea that we will always have water maybe we should start and think that water is not an unlimited resource. And we really need to do something about it. It is necessary to revive the idea of decentralised sanitization by detaching at the source, then reuse of water, exploitation and biogas and mud, resuscitation and collection, conservation. Today no one was saying classically what we know from the island is the exploitation of rainwater from the roof surfaces or large sumptuous surfaces, tanks. So we need to start thinking about both relevant and technical and regulatory solutions. In the case of the use of renewable energy sources, we talked here today, and we must again point out some commendable desalinization we must indeed and other than that it is extremely expensive and has proved to be extremely expensive, it does not have to be the best source of water because it is also related to the destruction of our eco-system and has an exceptional impact on the environment. Management therefore, we must constantly think that we are enjoying this offer, just offer that it is on the side of the offer because then we are talking about privatising water resources, just waiting for when it will happen and of course we will also have this water that we have on the islands, but otherwise in central Croatia how we will protect it and remain a fundamental human right. What we need to know is that Croatia needs to be preserved, so natural water capital, but also its eco systems so that we can all survive together and try to think in a way, there is this term of localisation, if our grandfathers are our meanings on islands in some way, which today could mean this economic concept of localisation, so what does that exchange of islands mean, which means transition to green, to green agriculture, so that we preserve for example. There is a seed bank on the island of Brac. We will also have a theme here to discuss the Seed Act, which means saving old seeds, so whether or not we are going to think about the importance of the exchange that once took place on islands, cooperatives, so how to make our islands enough again, especially in times of crisis like this. We don't know what else is waiting for us. And the islands here are all of us, each of us is an island, so Zagorje can also claim to be an island, but at a time when the island is truly separated from the mainland then it is very important that you can also survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35369	Thank you very much. The first replica of Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35370	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Boric. You've talked about a number of island-related things and we're here today to discuss islands and discuss how to improve the life of the island population. But we have another problem that has absolutely remained under the radar, which is what we on the islands develop tourism, tourism takes a short period, for tourism purposes we have certain needs in terms of infrastructure, we have a terrible disproportionateness between the infrastructures that are used on islands and that is used for two months a year from what is used for the remaining 10 months of the year. You have to maintain that infrastructure, you have to have public lighting, you have to maintain the road, if you have a plumbing and a sewer as well. This is also a problem on land with individual tourist zones and tourism development, and islands are much larger. It would be good if we had the island law to think about it and see how and what solutions you offer related to this. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35371	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35372	I agree, she has shown again the pandemic which means being on the islands, but also on the coast related to the Adriatic Sea and being connected to literally monoculture. We unfortunately destroyed everything that could have been destroyed, we're not now talking about an industry that is of course in these areas of the type of Jugoplasty or any major contaminants that existed, but that we haven't managed to make any transition to green in 30 years, or we may all get over the crown in a month. It must be very important to think about our tourism as we have imagined it is not something that destroys the environment, and ultimately it is not worth it. Here it has proved that the ratio of increasing this water is greater than it is in Europe and what it is in central Croatia means it is also related only to tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35373	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35374	Dear colleagues. Everything you're saying, you're saying I don't know what you're talking about, like you've never spoken to any of the island's residents. The green thing you're saying is a good story, but ask them what the islanders want. I know them, these people say they want to live off tourism, at least on those islands that engravite Makarska. We, for example. As far as water is concerned, you're talking about water privatization, the Makarska water supplyer for the entire Makarska Riviera, including Sućuri na Hvat. From the Zadvarje water park in Cetina we lead the water all the way to the Municipality of Sućurje on Hvar, we try all the forces to make enough water on the Makarska Riviera and Hvar and the only one who can help, and I know well what the head of the Sućurje Municipality is doing together with Croatian waters to build enough water to provide water for its residents and tourists. Everything you say pulls something imaginary that I don't know how and how much he's spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35375	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35376	Well, then I'll instruct you to look at the big debates and you can find them on the Internet, so look, otherwise there's a pretty big movement of the island where the research was done, so I'm not talking about it. I don't know who of course told you he wanted to live off tourism, it's the same thing as having a colleague, Hasanbegovic, and he didn't, it's also a floscula. We have not allowed people to live on anything but to live on tourism, so we have had this unplanned construction, illegal construction, so look, here I am near Makarska, too, so look how devastated it is, for example. and take a look at the coast in Krvavica, i.e. Brother, what kind of port was created there and I think who's responsible for it. So when you look at me, I have an analysis of what these islanders want, you can't have one year of state strategy to plant olives, and then next year you say rip olives and now plant the vine. I mean, we need to know what we want from both the island and the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35377	Thank you very much. This is what we ended up replicating your exposure. We're going to the last individual debate, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35378	Thank you, Vice President. So, teaching little and at this debate. Of course, on islands, islanders want to live on tourism, and what we're talking about is that when tourism is a monoculture, when there are no other opportunities, it means that there are no other opportunities for employment, it means that you have only a few kinds of occupations and jobs where you can get a job. This means that those who are highly educated for certain professions that are not touristic nature have nothing to do on the island and will leave the island, understand? That's why we're talking about the need to diversify these activities and if you read the research of our scientists dealing with life on islands, then you'll see that as examples of best practices of island development, the very ones that have a particular industry along with tourism, so you'll see, for example, an example of Postir or some other places that have managed to combine local industry, tourism with a local lifestyle and provide a larger diapazon of occupations where jobs can be found. I talked a little bit in the first part about what principles we should stick to when we do this law and actually bring those principles into the law itself. And I was talking about the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of participatoryness that every project, every thing in the island should be done with the participation of the islanders themselves and the principle of local ownership to invest in local infrastructure, for example, for renewable energy sources, but each other should in some way be minimal in co-ownership of islands to contribute to their development. What I also want to highlight as a principle, and this is the principle of priority set out in the use of island resources, including marine resources. What exactly am I thinking here? This means that, for example, in the award of concessions to aquaculture, aquaculture, renewable energy production concessions, etc. We should always give it to the islanders. We can do this in a way that applies social and green criteria in concession and public procurement procedures. I specifically suggested this in 2016 when I was not a representative, but through some representatives who were willing to make those arguments when the concession law was passed. At the time, we wanted the roof law to actually enter the possibility that certain groups would be favored and given so-called. those priority concessions because we already have priority concessions in the law and that, in fact, island cooperatives, especially fishing cooperatives, etc. be priority in giving concessions, not necessarily large companies that actually take resources from the local community and then the islanders can possibly be only auxiliary workers or workers in that cycle, but can't be owners. And it's not, I don't think it's a good practice, and I think in law, we could put that principle into place to actually provide them with that kind of priority. Finally, the fourth principle that should apply to the planning of measures and provisions concerning the development of island communities is the principle of equal access to public services. That principle doesn't just mean physical access to the service so that I have kindergarten, that I have school, that I have water, that I have electricity, etc. but this means that this service must not be priced higher than the same or similar on-shore service. Because what's the point of us doing, because I can see that there's been a debate about why he's investing there, not here, etc. What we need to achieve by law and different measures is to accept the fact that certain services are for transport, etc. in the islands much more expensive. But then if the role of the state were to cover that difference so that life for islanders wouldn't be more expensive than life on land. That's the point we need to make. Yeah? That's the minimum we have to stand for. And in the end I will say once again, it is not acceptable from any aspect that at the position of the Ministry of Education we have zero investment in islands and educational infrastructure on islands in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35379	Thank you. Thank you very much, distinguished representative Bencic, you have one replica. Here's your Honorable representative, Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35380	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've said some things well. So highly educated people on the island if they're not closely related to tourism jobs have nothing to do. However, I would like to note that it is not only an island matter, but it is a matter of all the smaller places especially in Dalmatia were on the coast, either in Zagora. From my high school class, only three of us men remained living and working in Makarska. So it's not exactly specific to the islands. Second, you mentioned the Poster. That's great, that's a good example. But it is simple that Chief Šime Marovic and their citizens are very well designed to further develop their place. A colleague, Boric, mentioned a very ugly example, a little girl named Krvavica. An illegal facility... Irregular, illegal. [[You don't understand.]] However, it is obvious that some are protected and even environmental defenders defend their actions, execute judgments. So there are good and negative sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35381	Thank you, counsel. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35382	Yeah, I couldn't agree more. What it is, is the problems of the island. Very similar problems can be found in rural or smaller areas and on land, especially in mountainous and mountainous areas, and ultimately very often the measures heading towards the islands go to mountainous and mountainous areas. Yeah, of course some of those problems are common. Some are specific islands and it is simply a fact because of the distance and way of reaching the island. However, what is crucial is that when we think about this kind of development on the islands that and in these smaller places that the task of the state is not waiting to happen, an investor will appear, or one will appear, rather than itself pro-actively investing in these areas in the diversification of economic activities in order to actually have the result that we have different diapazon jobs so that even highly educated people can find their place on the islands or in those other rural areas that you were talking about. So, you're looking for a proactive approach to the state, not waiting for Godot.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35383	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to final debates. The first is on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, whose name will be the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. I'm not an islander, but I live on an island. My island is called Slavonia, Baranja and West Srijem. And why am I saying that? In my opening statement on behalf of the Club, I also said that GDP per capita in Slavonian counties is far less than in all the counties that are seas, let's call them seas. So the biggest GDP in Osijek-Baranja County is 9,000 euros per capita. Vukovar-Srijemska, 6 700, Požeško-Slavonska 6 600, Slavonsko-brodska 6,600, and finally Virovitičko-podravska 6 500, I speak in rough, the lowest GDP has a Split-Dalmatia County 9 636 euros per capita. So the lowest GDP per capita in coastal counties is larger than the highest in Slavonian counties. And in Split-Dalmatia County it grows 22.34%, such growth is not recorded by any Slavonian County. We discussed today that we must keep the population on the islands, we must, but none of these counties are among the first three counties after emigration, they are again Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem and Slavon-Brad County. Health care, we talked about health care and it's hard on the islands, there's really no choir, if you have to go to a pediatrician somewhere on land, so it costs 200 kuna in winter months, but on the other hand, Orahovica is a town, they haven't had a peds office in a long time. In Lower Motičina we have a building, for several years, there is no dentist, and there is no doctor of general practice, but we have made the building. What's empty, it's a minor problem. Traffic connection, and there's a lot of talk about it, and of course when you live on the island, that's the problem. But don't think that smaller places in Slavonia are well connected to e.g. In Zagreb, there is no bus line for Zagreb, but there is no bus line from Ilock, from many other smaller places. About the railways not to talk, you take the train and you get on the bus, and then some city, suburban, etc., you never know when you'll be there, you know when you'll be on the train, but when you get to Zagreb, it's a mental noun. From Osijek to Koška train rides 60 km/h, is recently set on fire at the entrance to Našice. The train was set on fire, there were 50 passengers, children going to Osijek in high school and college, fortunately no one got hurt. So much for Slavonia's traffic connection. Irregular construction. The islands suffer from illegal construction. Well, it's nice that someone wants to build there at all. In Slavonia you have, experts estimate 100,000 houses with economic facilities that are empty. Empty. And what do I mean by this exposure? What we all agree, no one has anything against the island, however, should keep people on the islands, should allow them to live in quality quality, traffic connection, it's nothing controversial, but we keep doing partial solutions. The project Slavonia-Baranja-West Srijem, the Law on Islands, in the programme of the government for four years, we saw that special programs are done for everyone except Zagreb and Istria. Let's just say once, the Croatian state has been overly centralised. Let us decentralise it and allow people in all parts of the world to live in accordance with the 21st century and in line with the fact that we are a member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35385	Thank you, Your Honor. We continue after the final debates. Next in line is Honorable Representative Ante Kujundzic, who will speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35386	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So the changes this proposal makes are good and we commend them, but they are not enough and are certainly not one long-term solution that is more or less clear to all of us. It is not enough to subsidize water supply rather than create preconditions for the island’s self-sufficiency and permanent problem of water supply. One of the most logical solutions to the resolution of the mentioned problem is, as I have already said several times, that salinisation is. Whether it's based on solar energy or something else, it's the least important. The truth is, for years, there hasn't been a long-term perspective, but let's start it today, and I believe that here it is, one of these proposals is actually a sign of something good. So the key thing is that the sooner we start creating one prerequisite for the self-sustainability of what is our wealth, and these are islands among other things. Islands and islanders certainly don't need one form, let's call this kind of social aid in the form of a certain subsidy. Islands need serious and root changes and their own approach. Changes that will actually make the islands attractive for life throughout the year because the quality of life on the island certainly does not measure if we look at it in the heart of the season but is measured by everything that happens on the islands in the time outside the season. The island's cost of life requires a kind of subsidious rate of whether VAT, and profit tax itself, is also one of the options that would make the island and life on the island more attractive. The transport connection of the island to the mainland is also one of the preconditions that are necessary to revive or experience the kind of resuscitation of life itself on the islands, so whether by ferry transport or high-speed lines that should be of course more high quality and denser in the timetable itself. Dear Ministers who are not here, I hope you will begin with this bill of law with the continuity of your actions and make the islands desirable for your entire life. The club of Representatives of the Mosta will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35387	Thank you, Your Honor. The next final word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will be spoken by distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35388	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's something I want to say finally on behalf of the club because here's six hours of debate, I see six final debates on behalf of the clubs don't even reach the debate on the state budget, so obviously the Law on Islands in these amendments and additions earned the attention of Croatian representatives i.e. Parliamentarians and MPs, and I think there's been a very good debate. I am pleased to agree that this law should be supported because this is what we recommended at the beginning of this debate that it is precisely the agreement of all politicians and politicians in the past 20 years that has enabled the development of Croatian islands, and then these moments that they can already return invested in them and the state itself. What we heard, we heard and cried out our mayor of the island of Dragon, here's my message if Mayor Dragon calls out so loud, if he's strong, surely God will hear it and the issue of illegal construction will be resolved. We heard both our Arsen and his ballad and what surprised me in his ballad, he skipped in and some verse from that famous one I saw three times Tito, "I've seen Tito three times," I don't know why maybe in his age there was no market in Brač, no factory, no smoke, but apparently he simply described the life of the island in his own way, and maybe if he put it in, it might be even stronger. We also heard that "the movement of the island" cares about concessions, we passed that movement here a few years ago just before the local elections, I remember these discussions and accusations against us that we passed the Law on concessions that lasted for months. What happened after that and all those charges? Nothing. The concession system is legally complex and concessions can be given by law as it says, it's nobody's private property and nobody can do it that way. But obviously I say there are also parties that can always reach which political point. But they didn't see much in the local elections no matter what. Now, as far as the island law is concerned, we clearly supported what's already been incorporated into the regulation, and now in the law, the increase by twice almost means the number of cubics that our islanders can get that don't have a water supply system from 45 to 85. We have also clearly supported these moments, which are mentioned in the amendments and additions to the law, as regards road transport itself and the transfer of power to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. We also heard the moments concerning the Croatian island product itself, we support it as I asked for it, I ask that it be noted and that you really act in a way that we do not want to discuss the Island Act again next year because we do. The 37th will not be in line with all these others, and it concerns support for entrepreneurship, promoting competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship in the islands. Change that if it's possible in any way, given that it wasn't in this part of the law that we had at the hearing today. We also support this part about the island council, about the part which is being abolished by island urban areas, about the delegation of powers in the part of planning to regional self-government units, to facilitate local self-government on islands, all in all the law that needs to be supported, and I hope that we will support it in the vote all because the islanders expect it from us, they have their lives on their islands, I think they are making a great deal of effort to contribute daily and that this isolation, this barrier that we have between the island and the mainland, and we are talking about the sea must simply not be enough to stop us from helping that area, regardless of what 20 years have reached quite a good level of development. A special focus of politics must now be on small and weaker inhabited islands. The big ones can already take care of themselves, perhaps alone, without too much help from the state, but these small islands really deserve now a special view of both the ministries and the board of islands and the entire policies because we don't want to see this number of what we have inhabited islands to be less of those islands than to really save lives on every island that's now inhabited. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35389	Thank you, dear colleague Boric. I didn't run the session, but I think my colleague Bauk voted three times for the Island Law, but I'm glad you know the Pannonian Navy release. Let's move on, the next final word is she on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, on behalf of which she will speak the distinguished representative Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35390	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the vice president of the Parliament who stole my first sentence. So, let's remind ourselves that my colleague Bauk voted for the Law three times, and then, possibly, since we were already in a ton of Balasevic, we could do it with the song "Check on us", no. There is one thing that is the problem, which is the problem of the island, which is compared to the rest of the European Union, it was difficult to fight generally for empathy. Namely, we're a coast with almost a thousand islands. What country of the European Union has nearly a thousand islands? Not one. So, it was not easy, I suppose, either at European Union level, to get a certain European Parliament, not only empathy but also consequently some projects and programmes that are related to the islands themselves, and I believe that one of the European parliamentarians from Croatia played a key role. His name is Tonino Picula. I just want to remind you of that. What's important for the whole country and what we all always swear to is balanced development. It's hard to have on the island and realize the balanced development that we all have, we all have on land. And we also have, of course, great differences between the islands themselves. In particular, the Island of Krk, thanks to the bridge is almost land, so it could be worth it for Pag, but Pag has only one bridge, it still has a ferry. What I was very careful to listen to in the debate was about a question that was related to, another thing where you must have therefore a balanced service, which is primarily a health service, especially in cases of urgency. So I'm going to remind you of something that might have to be re-valorized, which is one of the ways of communication, so here's the thing, colleague Dark-Taritash mentioned that someone had an idea about tunnels. We can also use speedboats for emergency medical attention, but I don't know if you know, when a speedboat starts gliding after that doesn't float anymore than shake because it's gliding and I don't know how healthy it is for patients. We use ourselves for now, here we can track in the journals when it comes to births, we use Croatian Air Force helicopters, but I'll remind you of one thing that's been lifted, unfortunately, and one of them is also the project and the plan by which, not every island has a helicopter, and it can have a helipad. A helipad in which smaller planes would land, those specialising in emergency medical care and can land in various places, unlike the bulky Croatian Air Force. The program existed, the pilot project existed and suddenly disappeared and set sail. When we talk about healthcare again, however, with a fast internet we can achieve telemetric medicine, absolutely. Absolutely, but to realize telemetric medicine, and not only that, we can't have something, because it doesn't exist, we can't have a telemetric nurse. We can't have it, and some medical technician who can't be telemetric, must also make it technically possible for the patient to be examined on the island and to be examined by some specialist, some specialist or polyclinic office in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka or Pula. And that's a fact. I will specify very specifically, here my predecessor was my colleague, Boric, who is from Lopar on Rab Island. In cooperation with the Rabians, we also with the state have de facto restored, i.e. released the work of the House for the Elderly on the island of Rab. But in order for us to be able to really put into office this House for the elderly, we still miss it, I think it's recently filled, one nurse, who we've been waiting for months to start working at all, and she can't be telemetric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35391	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We are going to the next final debate, the one on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, will speak the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35392	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The island law, here first, would only refer to a colleague of Habianić, Croatia has more than 1000 islands. The islands and rocks, 1,185 islands, islands and cliffs, and I have already said, there are 1,233 islands on the Adriatic Sea, islands and cliffs, and it actually says how much the Croatian coast is divorced, one of the most divorced in the Mediterranean, the other in fact by divorce, right behind the coast of Greece, and we really have one special coast that is precious in the world and special. Wife, my wife has roots from one small place from the island of Brac, Bauk's municipality, Pucisca Municipality, Gornji Humac, from my Sibenik to this Upper Humac you have exactly 100 kilometers. From my again this Sibenik to Zagreb is 340 kilometers from the door to the door. I, if I respect the restrictions and respect them regularly, travel to Zagreb exactly 3 hours from door to door, unless there is a little more traffic in Zagreb, but from about three hours. From Sibenik to Upper Humac, I travel between 4.5 and 5 hours. So it's about 100 kilometers away. So maybe this information is clearly saying what it's like to live on an island, how far away you are or more distant plus what I have to say the cost is nothing less. The cost is actually higher if you take a ferry ticket or a ticket for yourself means a return ticket by car and one person by Supetar is 300 and if I'm not wrong 30, 40 kuna, which is very much. This law specifically speaks of water supply, and I also talked about it at the stop I asked for and I also spoke in the debate in front of the club, and I will repeat a problem which is concrete, very specific, and I would like it to be pointed out this way and to have a little public debate on the problem. So, in the town of Supetar on the island of Brac, there is a large building built by Vodavod Brač, which currently costs 28 million kuna, which could be a central administrative building for all the waters of the world, and because of this building, the price of water on Brac will be significantly more expensive than on land, and neither the ministry nor government nor anyone has asked the question as to how this is possible. He is, by chance, the director of the waterworks Brac HDZ. Why do I say it by accident? Because he was elected by a consensus decision of both HDZ and SDP, some of the municipalities of the SDP confirmed, or voted in favour of this director as well as HDZ. And it's absurd. I repeat, 28 million kunas are paid to build only a few necessary offices for the operation of the Brač Vodavoda. And now who's crazy about it? I showed it a little while ago, I'll show it again. Whoever hasn't left, let him go. When I first saw this building that looks monumental, I was wondering what this is? Is there a mega hotel? So mega hotel here's a colleague you see, so this is huge, so I couldn't help but wonder if it was built. Here I would point out another problem that is related to my Sibenik and islands means in the Sibenik archipelago. I will be specifically here to talk because I am talking about water supply of the island of Capri where currently after lobbying and drawing the Sibenik water water gave you one favourable price for the cubic water of 80 kuna, 80 kuna cubic water. And now imagine if you had an apartment there and some tourist who might be wasting water uncontrollably, let the water flow. Do you have the receipts? And nothing to anyone. 80 kuna is a cubic of water on the island of Cabrius. So the question is simple. Will the Croatian Government really deal with Croatian islands and standards on Croatian islands or will it just be declarative through some cumbersome, blurred laws and regulations? If he has a real interest in taking care of islands and islanders, then let him solve these two specific problems that are very big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35393	Thank you very much. And the last club that applied to participate in the debate through the closing statement on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35394	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the final word, I will not refer to what is in the individual debate, which in the name of the club said at the debate on this very, very interesting law, which is the Law on Islands, which is always causing a real debate in the Croatian Parliament and it is always several hours. But I will talk about several topics that are being opened here and which topics are the same for the whole of Croatia. Only when it comes to islands, then they are strengthened than they would be in other areas of Croatia. First the problem of people who aren't there, who are moving out, who are going to find their luck somewhere else. This is the topic of any part of the Republic of Croatia I think that only the City of Zagreb and Istria County 2 places where indicators are different. Wherever you're going, you're going to have a problem, people. On the islands, of course, it was reinforced because of their position. The second topic is the subject of property-legal relations that I am very happy to talk about, and this is the problem of the catastra and the problem of the grantovnica where we have managed to 6% of our catastra to take care of the Republic of Croatia since we have a state, and the rest of us pretend that there is no problem and then there is a problem with the use of state property, which in most cases is really problematic because you have no catastra. I mentioned it and I'll mention the problem of the island of Vis again. When you look at Vis and when you see the extra cadastre and when you switch over with each other, the cadastre is in the sea, and Vis is where Vis is. And that I don't talk about the granite or the granite state at all because there was an eviction. The heirs are in the area of the whole world, and if you want to solve it at all, you have to leave all hope, and it is no wonder that there are some things in us that are strange in some other countries of the European Union, we had that judge who has been dealing with certain problems on her knees like that. The third thing that stayed somehow, and that's what I said to a colleague in the final line below the radar. So we have been developing islands since the Roman and Greek times when we talk about the island of Hvar. The islands primarily developed, agriculture developed, olives developed, fisheries developed, and there, since the 1970s, there was a huge momentum in tourism where it could really be developed relatively quickly, or people could make money. So the development of tourism on the one hand really came up with one big swing, and on the other hand it opened up one problem that we see on land, and on the islands even bigger. You have a very large difference between the use of individual infrastructure all year round and the use of the infrastructure you have for the needs of the tourist season. You have places on the islands, of course there are, there are no big differences and some places on land that during the time outside the tourist season there are 500 to some 1,000 inhabitants, it is one serious place, and during the tourist season there are 10,000 people. You have to provide municipal infrastructure for 10,000 people, for them you have to provide water supply, for them you have to provide disposal, for them you have to provide public lighting, for them you have to provide roads. Among us sits the captains who are the heads of certain municipalities on islands and the budget that these municipalities or these cities have to make sure that this public lighting is maintained throughout the year, that this road is to be maintained throughout the year, so to patch holes, to clean up, to have a problem with some kind of waste disposal, this is a problem on land, and on the island is much bigger and this is one big disproportionate. In this regard, it is a convenient fact that in the City of Zagreb 40,000 towns of Zagreb do not have a drain, and then it would be convenient to compare it with the population on the islands and compare ourselves to seeing what we are talking about. So the problem when it comes to islands is just reinforced, these are the problems we have somewhere else. But here I am, these last half-minutes, you have a provision, and here I am looking at the secretary of state's new art. 9th century 3. where you can bring the island development plan only in the area of the same coastal island unit, regional, regional self-government. What about the island of Pag? The island of Pag are two counties, Zadar County and Primorje-Gorski i.e. Lika-Senjska I apologize to Ličko-Senjska, make sure you make an exception for the island of Pag because you will not be able to bring a plan for the island of Pag because the two units are regional so two counties. It would be good if.../Speakers spoke at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35395	Thank you, Honorable Representative, Dark Tarritash. And now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, Mr Velimir Zunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35396	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here I thank you really after here a little more than six hours of debate on your contribution, on all the suggestions, I believe that most of the same was well-intentioned and that we will see that a good part of these proposals, suggestions and comments are incorporated into this law in amendments and additions to the Island Act. Here I personally enjoyed being here and when the previous Law on Islands was passed, so in December 2018. So here I can only say that the islands were also in the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, both in the period 2016-2020 and in this term, and in this meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I'll just remind you that it's 2016-2020 in that term. More than €6 billion has been invested only from national funds, so from the state budget, and through European Structural and Investment Funds more than €7.3 billion has been contracted and paid to end-users over nearly €3 billion. In any case, you know or heard that today's amendments and amendments to the law are, in fact, the most relevant to harmonising with the regulation that was adopted last year in June, and also in early July, came into force as well as some other measures that we have been harmonising with other regulations, because here, of course, in this government of the Republic of Croatia, through the cooperation of several resistors, more bodies of the state administration, and the law is multi-sectoralally so we wanted to further improve it in every sense, and it is here and on the table today. What I would just like to say is that the National Development Plan for the island is mentioned several times in 2021-2027, which is being developed in a high participatory process. Not only the ministry, but regional, local self-government, scientific community, representatives of the islanders therefore believe that it will produce quality solutions, and as you know, the Republic of Croatia is available in the next ten years over 24 billion euros, and through the next multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027. I can only say that we will try to do everything possible to make the population on the island, not only the rest but also increase and that through this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act, we will actually make a further step towards the improvement of all islanders. And I'm glad to hear that the vast majority of you today have expressed their willingness to support this bill of amendments and additions to the Island Act, and that just means that you too recognize the need to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35397	Thank you, Secretary of State. Thank you to the representatives and representatives who participated in the debate. I hereby conclude the debate on this item on the agenda, and we will vote when the conditions are met. We continue with the following point of today's agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019. and Proposal for a Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2019 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 110. Budget law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, please welcome Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35400	Thank you very much. Honored vice presidents of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, of course, in the year after this point is debated, but parliamentary elections, their course, the result, the formation of the government, and all together, have led to the fact that already in 2021, in which we still have, of course, the key and main challenges related to the Covid pandemic and the two devastating earthquakes that have certainly great repercusion on public finances, the budget itself and the entire fiscal policy, as well as economic policy. But here's not bad, and I'm glad to be here today with you, along with the chief state treasurer, to discuss in some way and to remember with one beautiful, beautiful mind and memory those times before Covid, so the financial year 2019, which was the fourth in a series where the public debt was reduced, the third in a series where the budget surplus or surplus was achieved. So here I am, sticking to the order and order of course and what it says in the Budget Act, all the materials you've gotten, I believe you've looked at them and you know very well, we've followed the half-yearly report in our time, we've had several discussions on several occasions, but here, as far as 2019 is concerned, that's the year in which positive economic movements continued, economic growth achieved by 2.9%, grew practically all components, both domestic demand and foreign demand at the same time and on the one side of GDP from the industrial production that then marked the growth of some 0.5%, but greater growth recorded the trade on a slightly 3,6, the structure of 8.2, tourism 4.8 arrivals, 1.8 nights. We remember in 2019 there was another one in a series of then record years in terms of achieving tourism, both physical and financial indicators. The inflation rate was 0.8%, the unemployment rate was below 7%, 6.6% of the unemployment rate for 2019, and there was a continued surplus trend in the current account balance, so when we add up all the expensive goods, goods, services, transfers, incomes that have achieved this surplus of 2.9% of gross domestic product in a number of years, and therefore, among other things, foreign debt, as a reflection of that, it ended up at 75.8% of gross domestic product. I'll just remind you, just a few years ago that foreign debt exceeded 100% of gross domestic product. As far as income is concerned. The total revenues of the state budget were reached at EUR 139.9 billion, which is an increase of around 8.1% at the annual level, and I will remind myself in 2019 was the third year with the application, or the so-called third round of a single tax reform, a little going through which these were key changes. So I repeat once again what we said all the time when we represented and presented every year here in the Croatian Parliament different tax changes, and that, among other things, we showed and proved that with these changes, mainly with the dispersion, both direct and indirect taxes, we had positive implications and reflections on economic activity, on investments, on employment, on spending, on wages, and all of this was once again reflected positively in the return of the revenue side of the budget. Tax revenues, which are most important, an increase of 6%, a total of 82.7 billion kuna, in turn, not in height, but in order as we follow them, a profit tax of 9.3 billion or an increase of 9.6%, above all as a result of the good business of Croatian companies in 2018. Then, the most significant tax revenue, a value added tax of 54.9 billion kuna, or 6.5% higher compared to 2018, and I deliberately apostrophe these more compared to 2018 because in 2019, the value added tax rates were reduced from 13 to 5, for fresh meat, for fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs, and then we added, among other things, drugs, those so-called. without prescription, children's diapers, all of this was ultimately directed to one indirect way, because what we have said many times, lower VAT rates do not necessarily mean lower prices, but of course the market, all together, should in some way influence, as far as we can in the context of the competition, within what the Law allows us, to reach these adjustments. Here we can see for ourselves that this part, if it didn't reflect fully in price decline, we followed it from month to month, again on the other hand we see that it reflected positively on the revenue of the budget. Costs and special taxes 16.3 billion increase from some 2.5%, contributions, a very important category, because they are essentially the most significant reflection of the labour market 24.1 billion kuna and there we have a reduction of 3.1% compared to the year before, however, a key reason, and I believe that, in the replicas of me on my opening presentation, whether in some debate a good part today, and I am certain that every future debate on the budget will be well-leaded and on health issues. I'll just remind you, in 2019, two of the contributions that we have made to employment, i.e. for unemployment benefits and labour injuries, but at the same time we realised one part of that suspension to increase the contribution to health insurance, which means de facto the total burden of employers is reduced from 17.2% to 16.5%, with me repeating, the burden of the state budget has been lifted by these two, and distributed according to the health system to strengthen the income side of the budget again, not only in 2019, but from today's perspective, it once again shows that the revenue side of the budget and everything we have done cannot solve and does not solve the problem and problem of the financial sustainability of the health system. Then the proceeds are helpful. They have been achieved at 14.8 billion, which is a growth of even 38.1%, we know well that this is a continuation of that trend of a significant increase in the absorption of European Union funds, what we expect in the years to come. The proceeds from the assets were achieved at 2.8 billion kuna, an annual growth of 23.1%. The highest contribution was to dividend income and share in profits. In profit, the most significant payments from HEP, 212.4 million kuna, such as Split Airport 41.4 million kuna, are again confirmed primarily by good tourist results, and as far as dividends are concerned, INA has paid 560.4 million kuna to our stake in INA. As regards the expenditure side of the budget, they were carried out in the amount of kuna 139.9 billion and what actually affected the most the increase in the expenditure side compared to 2018. Of some 7.9%, this is precisely the issue and the topic of the usability of European funds. And that is what very often, not very often but always over the past few years and in the preparation of the budget itself, and then in the implementation of the budget not only you as parliamentary representatives who discuss it all together but I think, and slowly and professional and general public began to get used to that terminology to separate what we call from so-called. general sources, which all of us as taxpayers are paying, and ultimately what affects the result of the budget and fiscal policy in relation to what we call a deficit or surplus neutrally purposeful or own resources, and mainly European funds that have a specific purpose, can be withdrawn only for specific projects. As regards the increase of 7,9 or 10.3 billion, the absorption of European funds on the one hand already mentioned, on the other hand, the increase in pensions and pension incomes. We had two entries in 2019, more significant indexations than are now these recent years and announcements for this year and an increase in the cost of employees of a billion-and-a-half kuna. So the expenditures just mentioned for employees were made in the amount of $19.6 billion, a billion and a half more than a year ago. I will mention and repeat once again, it was the year in which we continued the trend of increasing the base of wages for state and public officials from the beginning of the year 1st January payments in February by 3% and then another 2% since 1st September with application since October. We will remember for ourselves that soon or shortly after that second increase he followed the biggest strike as we remember or remember at least me memory serves in the public sector specifically as far as teachers are concerned. So I'm going to repeat once again, how far it's achieved by that moment, and even after that moment, the total increase with today is over 20% in four years, as far as pay bases are concerned. Material expenditures amounted to €14.7 billion which is approximately 11.9% higher, primarily due to that part of co-financing related to European funds, but also to the increased execution of material expenditures by hospital and health institutions in 2019. What we have done more or less every year on top of this increase in contributions that I mentioned earlier, and some more injections in the healthcare system in order to keep as much as possible, not only in terms of large-scale drugs but generally under control, but I repeat again, and this way shows that only pumping money from the revenue side of the budget into the health system does not seem to solve the problem of financial sustainability. The financial expenditures were made in the amount of 10.9 billion kuna and this is what may also be important to mention that 2019 continued the trend in the reduction of interest costs, this is what we talked about all the time starting there since 2015, '16.When the share of interest in GDP was over 3% one year in 2015. It is now slightly over 2%, 2.3 we consider whatever the circumstances are that there is room for further interest reduction, given the international situation in terms of still quite low levels of these reference interest rates, but also the fact that we have returned Croatia's investment rating. And then, accordingly, we have a lower risk premium, or lower share of that part in interest, and of course, we seek to achieve additional savings through the refinancing of the commitments made. I hope in the days that follow that we have something to say about it further. As regards the expenditure on subsidies, they were made in the amount of €7.2 billion, the most of which relates to the farm of direct payments and rural development measures, the aid given abroad within the general budget of HRK 16.1 billion. Most of all, our contribution to the EU budget is 3.8 billion kuna, and let's say for the transfer to HZZO 2.6 billion kuna. The most significant item on the dispensary side is the fees for citizens and households totalling €49.3 billion, of which pensions and pension incomes of HRK 40.9 billion are an increase of €1.6 billion. You yourself know that the highest impact on this increase is on the one side of the inflow of new pensioners, but we also have some indexations that took place since January 2019, 1.15%, and since July 2.44%. However, we know very well, of course, the pension system when we look at it as a whole, mainly the relationship between pensioners and insurance companies and even more and more important the share of average pensions in the average salary, I think we can and should agree, I would say that we should continue to do everything in any way and how to improve that pension system, its sustainability, and ultimately wherever space is found and in accordance with the legislation, provide means for the implementation of that indexation. Social care compensation was made in the amount of 2.6 billion kuna, of which personal disability 610, aid and care allowance 520, guaranteed a minimum fee of 421 million kuna, additional maternity licenses and equipment for the newborn child billion and 600, allowances for children billions and 300. Other expenditures were made in the amount of €8.2 billion, expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets of €4 billion. An integral part of this report is also out-of- budget users, their total revenues amounted to €35.7 billion, expenditures of €33.7 billion, they achieved an surplus of 2 billion. And now that we sum it all up together, starting at certain levels it covers the general state and starting from so-called. National methodologies, what we are obliged to report and submit to the Croatian Assembly, and then slowly, by passing and transferring those figures to the European system of national accounts, so ESU 2010 and what all the Member States report to Eurostat and which are completely comparable data, so here are a few figures for the end. So, as for the state budget, just those first levels, for the first time in 2019, we also achieved a surplus at the level of the state budget, small, symbolic, but for the first time surplus, 49.6 million kuna, that's your second decimal, 0.01% of GDP. Out-of- budget users already mentioned 2 billion kunas or 0.5% of gross domestic product, units of local and area, regional self-government less than a billion and 400 or 0.4% of gross domestic product, and when all of this is summed up at the level of the general state, according to the national methodology, it is an surplus of 640.8 million kuna or 0.2% of gross domestic product. From this number according to the ESA numbers we have some adjustments, so we have some adjustments that have a positive effect on the result, and in 2019 we have again, after 2018 one alignment that significantly affects the overall result, and I will remind you, after the end of 2018 almost, let's say half paid, the second half of the protested guarantees of the Uljanik Shipyard, we talked about it many times, but just to remind you, because we were just subdued in the first half of 2019, so in the amount of about 2 billion kuna. When we add all of this together and subtract towards the ESI the total surplus or surplus in 2019 achieved in the amount of €553 million or 0.4% of gross domestic product. Very clear mathematics says that we didn't have to pay the protested guarantees for ships that weren't built, built in the Uljanik Shipyard, that surplus would be another 2 billion. But anyway, this is the result to be mentioned. All of this together had its reflection and reflection on public debt, at the end of 2019 it ended up at 73.2% of gross domestic product. I say very clearly and responsibly that there was no Covida at the end of last year we would have brought public debt to a level of 70%, possibly even mildly within those 70%, unfortunately because of Covid and a one-time public debt shock at the end of last year we do not have any final data, but is growing significantly at the level of over 86, 87% of gross domestic product, we will, of course, inform you as soon as Eurostat completes its evaluation and general harmonisation of figures with the Croatian National Bank and the State Statistics Office. However, to return to 2019, this is the fourth year in a row and in which the share of public debt has been reduced and when we look at the comparison with the year in which or two of these peaks were, in 2014, 2015, so the public debt has been reduced by almost 12 percentage points or points of gross domestic product, which means that on average we reduced it by 3 percentage points per year. Here I will give you again that one reflection with the Maastricht criteria and with the Stability and Growth Pact, which says, if your share of public debt in the gross domestic product is over 60%, which is, as for most European Union countries and, above all, the Euro Zone, then you are obliged to reduce the share of public debt in GDP by at least one-tenth of the difference between the current level and the above 60%. And if you're looking at us then, so before Covid at levels of over 70% with public debt, when you subtract 60 from 70, that's about 10-15, divide it by 20, so on average we should reduce the public debt somewhere around 0.8% of the gross domestic product, and we averaged it by 3%, that's just saying how responsible we were to public finances, and ultimately what we said, unfortunately, when we entered into a new crisis, the crisis caused by Covid 19 pandemic, fiscal policy was just a frame and able to respond immediately, what we very often stressed was not just an adequate response but a timely one. Of course, now that we're looking at the prism today, the effects of the Coronus crisis, which we'll talk about many more times in the Croatian Parliament, when we add it all together, but it's already seen, of course, and as far as the 2020 deficit is concerned, and as far as public debt is concerned, someone might say that all this good thing that's done over the past four years has been kind of neutralized, but also, my answer, or in some way my argument of that kind of attitude would have been, if we hadn't done this, then the public debt would have already reached a level of over 100% gross domestic product at the end of last year. So, precisely the responsible handling and handling of taxpayers' money has led us to have an adequate and timely response, and here, in the end just to thank you for your attention, of course I will be glad to respond to your replicas. In these times it is nice to remember a beautiful, good year, 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35401	Thank you, Your Honor. That you're going to be hanging out with the MPs for a little while in this first set, it seems to me like 15 replicas on your opening argument, so let's put it in order. First, please colleague Boric, if you have anything to say that you report for debate or replica. The first in line is the distinguished representative of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35402	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. So, a very interesting debate about 2019 as if it had been not a while ago, but that it had been in another life, some other people. And I'm not going to ask you about when you're thinking of reducing VAT to hygienic women's supplies, it's going to be someone else's, but one question about GDP. So, in 2019, we were at 2.9%. Experts say Croatia should be, at that time they said somewhere at 4% that they might somehow be able to reach all the differences we have in relation to other countries. I don't expect you to have a glass ball, I don't expect you to say, the end of 2021 we'll be on it, for the simple reason that this unfortunate Corona doesn't know where she's going and how she's going to go and when she's going to end, but one day I believe it will end. We're going to go back to our real life, how long it's going to take us to some famous 4%, that we have and that's how we try to catch a connection with some other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35403	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35404	Thank you well-respected MPs on the replica, i.e. on the comment and question. This is certainly seen from this macroeconomic policy as one of the key issues and the biggest challenges. You've recorded everything well and that growth rate that is and is feasible before Covid at levels between 2.5 and 3% is good on one side. But I think that not only should we all wish together, but we should do everything in our power to make that growth rate higher if, among other things, this process that we say about the acquisition of those or how the average or some other European Union countries would be faster than that katching up as we use it in English. At this point and now, at some shortest time, we must first of all focus on reaching that pre-crisis level, which is 2019 and GDP. According to today's calculations, the earliest moment is the end of 2022, and for some of the activities including mainly this service 2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35405	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35406	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ministers during 2019 continued positive movements started in 2015 after a 6-year recession. Growth has increased on almost all budget items. GDP growth by 2.9%. Even industrial production, as in 2018, fell, saw growth in 2019. Positive movements are recorded in traffic, retail trade, construction, tourism. In one word, it's a good budget year. How good and fruitful the financial year helped in that unfortunate 2020 when we were aware that we had to pay for the support of 100,000 employers for 600 thousand jobs, where Croatia hit 2 unfortunate earthquakes and of course where the health system in the Covid crisis was to be preserved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35407	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35408	Thank you very much. So here I am going to this last piece of your replica and questions and it's being added to mine we can say so this last part of the opening statement where exactly responsible fiscal policy management and the budget alone has led us into such a situation that in the wake of the crisis itself we can have a timely and adequate answer. I'm going to draw some reflections and reflections or some parallels and with the previous crisis. Because I think we learned a lot from that crisis in 2008, or at least we should have learned a lot. And related to this previous replica by MP Mrak Taritash when we pull those parallels, last crisis in 2008, in 2009, we took 11 years to get back to the pre-crisis level. In these circumstances, we sincerely hope, or all together, to do everything in our power to achieve this basic scenario that I said about the end of 2022, the beginning of 2023. So that's what's really important and there and there's fiscal policy among other things her role to make her contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35409	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35410	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear, distinguished ministers may be most interested in the entire tourism sector. I know you're not directly in charge of this. What instruments can all government make to make it possible to move financially as soon as possible for the tourist season? Because we know that it's very important now, both at the 3rd and 4th months, that this very important tourist season, which is generally because we see that banks, unfortunately, are looking at their balance sheet. What other instruments does the government have to prepare for the tourist season? Because I think it will be quite crucial not only for public finances, but for the entire economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35411	Thank you very much. Here's an answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35412	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I think that as far as tourism and tourist seasons are concerned, the key variable will primarily be related to the pandemic itself. So our still figures, hopefully what we see today won't be something more significant, we'll see the figures of course. But for now, we can say that in recent weeks we've been recording relatively good trends. That's what to insist on. The fissure is extremely important and ultimately all together to lead to us doing again what we did last year, which is to lead Croatia to be very attractive again not only for the sake of safety in the general sense, but also for safety in terms of this epidemiological part. Liquid or what you mentioned is also very well and you know and follow, of course you need to stimulate and transport the entire sector further. What I am particularly pleased about in the talks not only with the caterers who may be more focused on the short term, with the hotelers they are thinking again about renewing and continuing their investment cycle so not only for this one, but also next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35413	Thank you very much. I'm just asking you to try to hold on to the time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35414	Dear Minister, you spoke of 2019 as a great year. Please make it clear to the Croatian public where we were on the scale of the European Union countries that year by consumption and per GDP. Do you understand? Oh, thank you. [[Intruder Maric: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35415	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35416	So maybe I even said it, but I don't usually use that word. So, good year yes, but the Minister of Finance will always tell you that he can always do better. Yeah? So, I think that good year was our fourth in a row as to these numbers I mentioned. Third year in a row of surpluses. And what is also important is that certain extra steps have been made mainly in this economic area. Fiscal policy must not and should not be its own purpose. It must first and foremost be in function of economic growth, so that among other things, what I repeat once again the first replica was yours, which is that this process is speeding up, or that we start from where we are right now, and these are the last two or three positions to move towards a further process of harmonisation, or correction of the gross social product per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35417	Thank you very much. Next, I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Zekanovic's what's been injured by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35418	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So the Honorable Minister didn't answer my question, and I asked him very nicely clearly. What are we on the EU's GDP and consumption scale of countries? The question is extremely clear, and I believe he broke the Rules of Procedure as soon as he didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35419	Mr Zekanovic, unfortunately this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure to ask the same question and replica for the second time. Maybe the minister just doesn't know the answer to your question. Okay. Don't use the Rules of Procedure anymore, or I'll give you a warning. Let's move on, next replica, distinguished representative Davor Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35420	Thank you, Prime Minister. From 2016 to 2019, the budget has increased by around 25 billion kuna, which is on average 5% a year. So, even when we exempt the tax due to higher incomes from EU funds, the growth of the expenditure side is still going faster than GDP growth. My question is what to plan to do about curbing the expenditure of the state, so that in some future crises it will not reopen itself, not a hole in the budget, but a crater in the budget. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35421	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35422	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The spending party is something that we have been stressing all this time as the key to the success of fiscal policy, that it is halting, that we should not allow those increases that will lead to the unsustainability of public finances. 2016 is the only year in which we had even a nominal reduction in the expenditure side of the budget, after which every year when there was an increase, both from the general sources of the European Union, was still what was in some way within the scope of the possibilities, because ultimately the results ultimately show whether or not we were successful. However, what I can agree with you is just apostrophe of this spending party, that we should continue to insist on it, the revenue side and all that we have done, and all the extra income that we have achieved, to direct to tax, non-taxable discharge and public debt reduction, and to insist on maximum discipline on the dissuasive side. In one of the following replicas, if there is an opportunity, I will only mention this trend in several items of the 2015 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35423	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35424	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The average food household spends about 25% of its budget, you mentioned that in 2019 it has reduced VAT on certain food products such as fresh meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, but also on agricultural inputs to prepare and serve food, which, of course, I welcome, and I wonder whether it has had certain effects on increasing consumption, and then accordingly on increasing domestic production. Since in the environment, when we look at the average of the Member States and see what VAT they have on food, it is somewhere between 2% and 15%, and you have already announced multiple times that through the new tax discharges, VAT will be further reduced to food, I wonder when it is drawn in your plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35425	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35426	Thank you very much, Your Honor. No one could really think about it in 2016 and think that something like Covid would happen, but here if we look from day one and remember when we announced the first round of tax changes and put one of the measures in place, then there was a reduction of VAT rates on inputs in agricultural production for seeds and fertilisers and so forth, and at the end or in the end we went in this direction to then and outputs to lower, fresh meat, fruit, vegetables, etc., was announced when fiscal opportunities were created and for total food. This must have been on our side and in some way through the tax system to encourage domestic agricultural production and to ensure what is here in Covid, mainly at the beginning, I am sorry that we are no longer talking as intensely as we talked about a year ago, ensuring the self-sufficiency of food for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35427	Thank you very much. The next replica, distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35428	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. So I'd say first of all that I'm sorry that in the first quarter of 2021 we're discussing the implementation of the 2019 budget, I think, it's about the budget from two years ago. I know you've got a lot of work to do, but just as long as we have to wait over a year to discuss the implementation of the 2019 budget, I don't think. What I would say is that the State budget is not an obligation for the purpose of spending income, i.e. all sources of income are placed on one pile and then the budget is spent. For this reason, we must really disclose to the public that there is a public debt which is de facto, almost not recorded in the budget. It is a public debt of health, which would make the budget deficit wherever and where larger, not a surplus here, but a deficit, but there are areas where you deliberately plan an surplus, which means that in these areas you are not effective, that is, we have too much emphasis.../...Sabin Glasor: Thank you./... we are collecting too much money, and we are not effective in implementing the programme. Please comment with this debt and budget deficit [[Sabina Voter: Thank you, MPs, please stick to the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35429	Here's your honorary minister, your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35430	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think in the introduction, exactly what I said at the outset, is that this is in some way primarily due to parliamentary elections. So, we filed according to the legal frameworks and legal deadlines of the 2019 Budget Report, and then after the formation, not only of the Government, but first of all of the Croatian Parliament and the new convocation of the Croatian Parliament, there was some way we had to repeat the exercise once more, so here it happened today on the agenda, I wouldn't mind, either, if we had managed to push it in some way at the end of last year and keep that dynamics, but well, here, I hope that no great harm was created there either. As far as health care is concerned, so in those figures that I speak of and from the national methodology according to the European health system, the harmonisations include changes in the overall obligations in the health system. At the end of 2018. 7 billion 400, late 2019. 8 billion 580, so these 199 billion are included in the total number I just said, surplus of 0.5% of gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35431	Thank you, next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35432	Well, here I am, Mr. Minister, also going to continue on to colleague Ahmetovic, who is also to me, I think that execution means a report on the implementation of the state budget is one of the key documents adopted by the Croatian Parliament and a key tool of control of the work of the executive government by parliament. So it's also unacceptable for me to have something that was in 2019 that we're just discussing right now. I think that this debate is becoming somewhat less important and useful in that sense. I see you gave it up in time, but I still think we should address it as a parliament that it is inadequate. Now I have one specific question regarding the economic classification of costs, in particular 3432 negative exchange rates and differences due to the use of the currency clause where there were 6 million kunas actually in 2018 in order to increase this to a billion and 736 million kuna means in 2019, so if you can explain that a little further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35433	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35434	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm just going to say it one more time. Of course it wasn't here and you yourself recognized by the government none in any way a mistake. We have fulfilled all our obligations. However, the circumstances were such that it now turned out that at the 2nd month or at the end of the 2nd month we were discussing something that had practically passed the year. It means a year and a few days later. As a rule, this report is being discussed sometime at the 9th, 10th month. So it's not even that big of a delay. As far as negative exchange rates are concerned, that is an item that is indeed one species that is very easy to explain and verify. So we have a balance of total debt. We know for ourselves that in the total debt we have a predominant component in the euro either on the international market or on the domestic market and, of course, comparing the rate at the end of the year is previous and what is the rate at the end of that year. And according to that one, it's recorded. Sometimes exchange rates are negative, sometimes they're positive. So, it's not something you guys ultimately have as some kind of instruments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35435	Thank you. Let's move on. The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35436	Dear Minister, you've quite well recited the aggregate numbers according to certain items. And since you're actually just a good policy teller by the government, my replica is not aimed at you, but at your boss and government as a whole. The problem with this budget isn't in his numbers. The problem with this budget is that it looks back 30 years the budget is growing, and its transparency is getting smaller. The problem is that Croatia is not structurally changing and the problem is that Croatia has very poor resources. There are three key problems in this regard. Weak and very bad income is made from real estate and from shares in companies. Another problem is that too much is spent on a massive public administration. And the third problem is that there's no vision of how to service debts in health care. For example, close debt to large-scale drugs. A true finance minister would be able to deal with these difficulties and make some quality step. My question to you is, do you have the capacity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35437	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please choose a reply to a replica that wasn't really meant for you, the MP said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35438	Thank you very much. Well, I'll try something at least. Of course, the Prime Minister is still the one who verifys... the budget. [[You don't understand.]] All these figures to the entire government, and so would I, I would say, serve the honor because apparently and the results show a significant improvement in the resulting sense, and I will nevertheless be made a reflection or in some way a link to what you said about transparency. So, I will say that it can always be more transparent, but we have done and we have done a lot to make this budget as accessible as possible for any possible of its items to be through these discussions but in general to our citizens and all the gatherings that we participate in the budget as taxpayers to benefit. And as for whether or not I am, so I do like all my government colleagues the best I can within my capabilities and capacities to solve the problems and challenges I face.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35439	Thank you. Let's move on. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35440	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister 2019 was the fourth year that was actually positive and the surplus was so minimal. But we certainly look at her with nostalgia. However, you have also managed to relieve the entire government, despite all the difficulties that have been made that you have carried out all tax reforms and that you have, in accordance with this, relieved entrepreneurs, and citizenship, and that Croatia has received and received an investment rating that could have made it even better for you to manage finances, and not as some colleagues say as cashier, but as a man who has to see the overall very complex economic situation both in the country and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35441	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35442	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here we are as chairman of the parent board I will call it so for the state budget and finance from day one we are having a debate and we also remember our first discussions and discussions within the board, as well as the plenary which is the intensity and in some way the idea of tax reform that you yourself have also supported and given full support. And I think now that we're looking at it in some way and we're looking at it a little bit, it's kind of like, in the vast majority of things, it's actually made a real leap and a full hit. In the sense that we created and created fiscal capacities to parallel with the consolidation of public finances, what the recently respected MP found said with the control of the expenditure side of the budget creates conditions, creates a space for discharge and tax and non-taxable. In the end, the numbers are best spoken and confirmed by everything we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35443	Thank you. Let's move on. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35444	Thank you very much. Ministers on budget implementation for 2019 should have some data. The fact is, I don't know if you have the data on how much GDP that year was, how much GDP is really interested in us... It was somewhere around 6% of GDP, it's a very important item because we see where our policies lead us, that we are the biggest in Europe on the subject means foreign contact. [[You don't understand.]] It's very important to me that you tell me, you mentioned this shipbuilding site, I'm interested in incentives and subsidies, dedicated spent funds, if you have any effects, for example. We never gave any more incentives in agriculture, and we never imported again, we import EUR 3 billion. So the effects are very important when we talk about the execution of any agriculture, or shipbuilding. Here's an example of Končar and Brodotrogir where the state used to spend funds with And Končar didn't fulfill his obligations, but he chased the workers to the road, and we don't have [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Shipbuilding. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35445	Here's an esteemed minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35446	Thank you very much. I'm going to try these two or three topics on speed. So, as far as the information from abroad is concerned, the topics you very often mention in the Croatian Parliament and in the discussions are an integral part of the current balance of payments account. I said that the trend of this surplus on balance was continued in 2019, but with all due respect to all our citizens who live and work in some other countries and these incomes that they generate through their connections to the Croatian economy, or in the Croatian financial system, are much greater than what foreign workers do in Croatia and send to their countries. So, on this balance as well as on the balance of services we always have traditionally already can say so 30 years' surplus, while in goods and in this income we have shortfalls. As far as agricultural production is concerned, I have recently replicated the honourable representative Petir, as regards the total salary of 3.1 billion. What's good is that most of it and most of it goes from European funds, and this last part about shipbuilding I hope there will be opportunities later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35447	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Anamarija Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35448	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I think this report really shows a responsible attitude towards public finances, and what I noticed in this report that we're talking about today is income from selling non-financial assets. I don't think I've heard you mention it, and I see that they're growing by more than 77% on an annual basis and they're reaching 1.1 billion in 2019. I think that this is a significant growth in that income and certainly points to a positive practice of selling state assets that was out of use, but I also think that in this way, as well as various leases or leases, we certainly revitalise other forms of inactive state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35449	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35450	Thank you, well-respected MPs, so here I will connect your replica to one of the previous, this previous replica of the distinguished representative Oreskovic who I must admit besides that part is practically not agreeing with, but I can agree that there is always a need to strive to activate as much as possible and better and more effectively this state property. You are, among other things, the head of a local self-government, so the town of Pacrac, and then you know very well that the very principle of subsidiarity that we are constantly trying to through tax but also some other changes here should be worth, that it is through this cooperation of the central and local level in as much a better and more efficient way as possible that state property puts into operation exactly those who will create added value, employment and ultimately do what is the key role of investment in state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35451	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35452	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric, you often boast of the good government policy, reducing public debt, and in fact you just took advantage of the good situation that ruled and in capital markets means where we borrowed much more favourably. My colleagues spoke before me about how much state spending has grown and here we need to be honest and tell the only prime minister in Croatia who has reduced public debt is Tihomir Oreshkovic, although I don't know this team from the platform We can who doesn't know the basic economic legality says it's the worst prime minister in Croatian history. And you didn't take advantage of the respected ministers, you didn't reduce government spending and you didn't cut the charges. We had and the other day here means our proposal to abolish mandatory membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, you protect these arrests, impose on Croatian entrepreneurs, hosts, craftsmen and impose and then wonder why they're unhappy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35453	Thank you very much. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35454	Thank you very much. So as far as this data is concerned, I think they are official and are not run by the Ministry of Finance or the Government, they are published by the Croatian National Bank, the State Statistics Institute and ultimately by Eurostat. And then the data on the share of public debt in GDP are those that are relevant and which give an international comparison, but it is also good to look at these figures on nominal public debt. Earlier, a colleague of Tomaševic asked and related to these exchange rates and the figures are very clear, exact, cannot be more precise, so from a level of 286 billion and 410 million kuna at the end of 2015 when the peak was then before Covid, the peak of public debt until 2018 symbolically but for some 300 million kuna less public debt in those 4 years, and 12% points in gross domestic product. In view of the 2020 pandemic, of course there is a significant increase in public debt both in nominal terms and in percentage of gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35455	Thank you very much, let's move on. The next replica of the distinguished representative, Plasimir Troscott, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35456	The respected ministers, public finances of local self-government and the national budget are highly linked through very many items. First of all, it's groundless. I think people cross when they're looking at us now that we're even two years after, so the 2019 budget, I'd like to set a slightly more up-to-date situation. So, the City of Zagreb budget has a budget deficit in and that is, in a good year 2019 somewhere around a billion and 300 million kuna. So we are in 2021, and it would be okay for us candidates who are running for mayor of the City of Zagreb to get concrete information in which the City of Zagreb is now on budgetary deficits and that we know what we can expect in the 5th month, so after the elections themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35457	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35458	Thank you very much. So here's just once again about this delay in the debate, once again, it's really no government guilt, we filed a report in time, parliamentary elections, and all that followed after that had been a reflection that we had to go through our procedure once again, but it's not so much of a delay, because in general this report is being discussed somewhere in September, October of the year for the previous, so a delay of 3 to 4 months, and on the other hand it's never too late, and it's good that some things are being apostroprated among other things. You're right about local self-government, it's connected. It is linked among other things by being an integral part of the general government budget. However, you saw for yourself or heard when I presented the state budget and extra budget users. The local self-government then, so to speak, has its own meetings at local level that confirm budget and only execution. So, among other things, these are the best addresses for the issue of what the individual budgets are in. We combine it all together and show it united as a budget for local self-government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35459	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your opening presentation, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Yankee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35460	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister, here's my question. It's very much about this previous question. Here for the first time in history we can tell the Republic of Croatia we have a decentralisation of the state budget back 2 fiscal years. I congratulate you on this particularly on this balancing where you have come into contact precisely with local budgets in which you have increased these local budgets and enabled local self-government units to function better, and thus to invest more, to pay more then and VAT, to pay taxes, contributions, salary increases, and more importantly this has significantly affected and further influences the withdrawal of European funds and the ability of local self-government units to have their own financial capacity to participate in the precisely in these withdrawals of European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35461	Thank you very much. Here's an esteemed minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35462	Thank you, Your Honor, so here in several rounds of tax changes, especially those relating to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, I must admit that I was not pleased to come to the Croatian Parliament, given that, on both sides, the positional and opposition sides have many local leaders, and yet, on the other hand, I would say the differences in political understandings and some ideologies can say that the vast majority, if not all agree on how good a step has been made just to strengthen that fiscal position of local self-government. You remember, from day one, we talked about creating preconditions and conditions for better withdrawal and absorption of European funds and finals, taking those actions that are important at local level, thus communal and similar and in-house infrastructures, and ultimately all this is part of what you say well in the previous replica of one and the same general state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35463	Thank you, Your Honor. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas of your opening exposure. Which it is, it is. You're one of the few ministers who stays here from morning till tomorrow if necessary. Before we go to debates on behalf of the club, the club representatives, I will now give a little 10 minutes to clear this room because we haven't been long, and we need to consider the epidemiological conditions. We'll continue at 18 and 10. It's 6:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.11 HOURS]] Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Let's move on, then we'll start with the representatives' clubs, the first club of representatives is the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash and colleague Pulak will share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35465	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, you will hear what was otherwise meant for the minister to hear. Minister Maric is one of those few ministers who is usually with us, but this time he decided not to be and many times from this pay phone I have spoken the words that I will say this time, which is to discuss the 2019 Report. When I saw the agenda, then I just walked by and opened the agenda point and saw the 2019 report and I think someone got confused. Nemre Bit Report for 2019, the end of February 2021, but then I walk in, so I see it hasn't been confused. We've often said from this pay phone that we have reports that came late, that they come to us with months of delay, that, that they've been standing in the agenda for a long time, that they could have been discussed, but this situation is really even more absurd. So, we are discussing budget implementation for 2019 in February 2021, but we must stress something. When you look at the documentation then you see the following that the government sent this report to HS on 29 October, and that this, on the parent board, was on November 3rd, and that 4 months then this report was wandering through the impenetrable halls, it was obviously going to the second floor, then the first floor, then the ground floor, and so on, and there it was, after that acidification and wandering and getting acquainted with all the rooms of the assembly, here we are. And now there is the Ministry of Finance, whose practice was not in one standard parliamentary procedure. But what's not standard is 2020. Is 2020. We, we must be fully aware, of everything we planned, turned completely upside down and on the side of income, their sources and amounts, as well as on the side of expenditure, everything in the meantime fell apart. And that's because of the severe crisis that we went into because of the coronary pandemic, everything looks different in February 2021 than it would have been if it had been a normal time there in 2020. And in that sense, this return in 2019 as if we were returning to some parallel universe or to a parallel world, and this report assures us that it was all the brightest possible, that everything that had to grow, that everything that had to fall fell, that here we are going back to another time, and today this debate was also meant to serve a similar purpose as those prime minister's rosters that we've heard many times from this pay phone, which is about a falling deficit and a public debt and record tourist season and generally great results that he personally led us to. Unfortunately, it was all on one glass so I wouldn't tell the fragile legs, and as everyone knows, it all fell apart. That the thing about this report is either more ridiculous or absurd a few months ago we've already discussed and voted on a half-yearly report for 2020. And this report when in 2019 when you read a little bit everything smells like spring flowers and in it is all wonderful and wonderful and growth of GDP and growth of investment and growth of consumption and growth of exports and industrial production, however, only compared to the previous year, but still record tourist season, growth of trade and construction, surplus of budget etc. etc. Unfortunately, in the meantime, we learned that there was not much left of it. Mostly because of the extraordinary situation we've been in. But the crown made one slap very clear to all of us and woke us up and clearly showed us what we're standing on. It is fortunate for Croatia that the crown has welcomed the crisis as a member of the EU. We better not even imagine what would happen and what it would look like we were left alone and our own resources. But while we are already on the subject of the EU, there is one question that I would very much like to address to the prime minister, and that is what I will do. When are we finally going to see that recovery plan of ours? The prime minister promised in this assembly to present it by the end of 2020, it was late 2020. Unfortunately, no matter how we expected it to happen. Even though it is a tendency for both the prime minister and this government to bypass the parliament wherever they can, but what would be fair and correct for Croatian citizens is to finally see what is the recovery plan and the resistance Croatia is going to ask the EU for, or to realise, its ability to withdraw 6 billion grants from the European Mechanism for Recovery and Resistance because that plan is none other than the prime minister and perhaps its closest associates have ever seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35466	Thank you, Your Honor. We move on, next up is the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, and sorry, I apologize, the distinguished representative Puljak will remain. I've already thought you haven't used all this time. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35467	It's not like I look like a colleague of Zekanovic's, but good. Oh, thank God... [[I'm the one who fell off the bench: thank God.]] Okay, I'm just going to point out again for a little while again here's the couple we stayed here to talk about in 2021 about budget implementation 2019, especially when we talked about the execution of the first 6 months of 2020 a few weeks ago. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this kind of seems like a long, long time ago dream. Every time I look at these budgeting documents, I'm particularly focused on spending. We heard here and here and in the set replica from 2015 to 2020, annual expenditures grew on average 5 billion kuna a year. Compared to looking at the 2019 report, the total expenditures are more than 10 billion kuna or almost 8% compared to 2018. So all expenditure at the level of the accounting groups also increased financial expenditures, material expenditure by 11.9%, which is primarily related to material expenditures by hospital health institutions. So, you don't control hospital spending at all until when, so it's not just a long-term drug problem. Is there, therefore, any plan, does this government have a plan and strategy to resolve the debt of the health system? Costs for employees were more than 1.5 billion kuna or 5.3% as a result of the increase in the base for the calculation of salaries for civil servants and tenants and pay bases in public services. So the expenditures here are constantly growing we cannot launch these structural reforms that all governments are calling upon and swear before the elections in their pre-election promises, however they cannot reach us. In 2019 we had a slight surplus, here we heard from the minister 0.4% commendable, but whether as we used it, normal states when they had surpluses then work out some plan for bad times, and those bad times hit us in 2020. So after what the Bible says for 7 years, the years of famine came, the decline of income, and in the absence of income under these extraordinary circumstances, spending management is always crucial in some sort of leveraged budget management. Let's go back to that report from the first six months of 2020, so the explosion of expenditure growth. The expenditure of the state budget increased by 15% compared to the same period in 2019, of course due to the epidemic, conservation measures, etc., so these specific expenditures in exceptional circumstances further increased the expenditure of those accumulated earlier due to inefficient management. So, because of these delays in reforms, we're just stockpiling up problems, so if we remember that crisis year in 2008, then Croatia was the largest number of years in the post-pression period of all the countries of Europe, so it's possible that in this one after this pandemic we'll be getting away with the longest of all the countries in Europe. The government budget deficit was also 9 times higher in the first 6 months of 2020 compared to the '19 period. A year. All these internal problems, structural problems did not seriously solve any government at this time. There's always been some kind of individual fire-extinguishing reform, and never a fire-fighting system to make Therefore, all reforms on the revenue side remain in fact barren if they are not followed by deep-seated reforms. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35468	Thank you, well-respected representative Pulak, and the next is the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, in their name will speak the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35469	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, listening to this report that the minister has just delivered to me, this looks like Captain Titanic is coming to his crew and saying bravo you just got out of the sinking ship five vessels of water, and the ship is sinking and sinking. And that's what this report actually looks like. The key question I asked Mr. Maric, which he did not answer, and I will ask again, is, what is Croatia on the scale of the development of EU countries by revenue and GDP? The answer just now was not given to me by Mr. Maric, he may give it to me one day, and I will tell the Croatian public. In 2019, we were last, now we're last. I will repeat, we were last compared to 27 EU countries, and we are now last. And that's all that matters and only relevant. And now a little bit about this great year that Minister Maric praised as a historic good year. He was talking about the surplus. A surplus for those who don't know is a surplus, a deficit is a lack of something. And he always assures us that we have surplus income, that we have little money left in the register. And he calculated it in a way that he took up the loan and that our deficit is slightly smaller, so we owe it a lot more this year, and even 80% of the budget is due, 85, just now said Mr. Maric. And if we're next year or if next year we're going to owe 82% of the budget doesn't mean we have a surplus but we have a slightly smaller deficit, we just owe a little less. And that's the important difference. So we don't have a surplus, but we have a smaller deficit, or we've had it. Today we have one of the biggest deficits, if not the largest deficit among all EU countries. And we'll be getting out of this crisis for years, maybe decades. We only made it out of that 2008 crisis in 2019, and this one, which is what Minister Maric said will not be able to do before 2025 or '26. In other words, we will be 17, 18 years at the same level of development or we will not leave the dead spot or in 5, 6 years if we are lucky, our children will have the opportunity to see how it lived in 2008. And it's a disaster, it's extremely bad. I need to look back here for a little bit on the current year. And the current year is based solely on European funds, on EU assistance and we haven't received enough from Europe yet. We only got some change to rebuild Zagreb, so the first tranche was 80 million euros, correct me if I'm wrong, so now we're supposed to get 500, I don't know if those 500 million euros sat down or not, but if it sat down, whether it sat down, it wasn't, it's, it's, it's, it's, I don't see, I don't know what this means, okay. I don't think it's sat down, but here's the guy who doesn't want to say if he sat down or didn't sit down, so this is a yes, this is a no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35470	Comrade Zekanovic, we have not yet introduced the pantomime into the Rules of Procedure, there will be a chance that in the name of the Government someone is showing up for all the debates so that I ask you to complete your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35471	I'm sorry, I'm not going to try to communicate with the promoter anymore. So, I lost my answer but let's say we got that 500 million euros and then another 80, that's about 600 million euros round, and then when we multiply it by 7.5 we're going to get some, what, one 4.5 billion kn and you know how much the cost of rebuilding Zagreb? Here's what I heard today from a HDZ guy on the radio. 97 billion kn damage occurred in the earthquake, and the EU has helped us fantastically with 5% of that amount. With 5% of the amount you need. And we rely on the EU, on the funds of that next generation, meaning a new generation, the budget has not yet passed, whether or not, no one knows, so we are condemned to ourselves. And then we come here to the Parliament and then the minister tells us here that Croatia is actually great and that we were the first league in 2019. Little about the public debt, so 85% of the public debt, the budget is currently public debt, it was 60% or 65% allegedly in 2019, and this is now a little complicated for A. Plenkovic because he won't be able to introduce the euro. It's nice to meet you personally. I'm very pleased to see it in person, but as far as I know, it has to be much lower than 85%. So from every evil someone good. Here's A. Plenkovic won't be able to introduce the euro, sovereigns, you look forward to it because unfortunately, here is our debt very high but fortunately, the euro is still missing in Croatia. So, in 2019, it was perfect, it was great, honey and milk flow, it was completed for summer in Hawaii, blocked in Australia, and it was actually misery and misery, which is the only exact data, the only comparable, the only one we can interpret and talk about is Croatia's comparison with other EU members. And Croatia, I will point out, what the minister did not want to answer earlier, was the last, so the second worst in the EU, and today the last, and on the helm of this sinking ship is A. Plenkovic, with the help of the night guard, is being assisted by Minister Maric and then praised to the Croatian state, the Croatian citizens for being able to throw several vessels of water out of the sinking ship and expect us to clap. No, we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35472	Thank you very much. We continue the debates on behalf of the representatives' clubs, and the next is the Club of Representatives, peace. The Club of Representatives of the Mosta, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, will speak to the distinguished representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35473	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. So it's not even that much of a problem that the report is late, how much trouble I'm having to manipulate certain numbers and conditions. For example, the fiscal 20019 was one of those in which the most important macroeconomically and then the most important fiscal indicators give at first sight one form of perception of a favourable economic situation. The key word in this sentence is an illusion because the surplus of the general government budget of 0.4% of GDP, the third in a row and the reduction of public debt to 73% of GDP, would indeed suggest to the uninformed observer that the situation is being corrected both in the economy and in the public sector. Fulfilling the fiscal rules introduced to increase the responsibility of economic policyholders for the country's fiscal sustainability would also suggest that the economy is on one good path but it only takes a little scratch beneath the surface to see through the mirage of a successful fiscal 2019 and who knows which way, learns all the obviousness and depth of our accumulated, economic and fiscal problems. But let's take the turn. The total public debt in 2019 amounted to around 47% of GDP in 2019, of course including public expenditures, and they are the largest among all new EU Member States. So 9% of public expenditure is higher than the EU average and even 18% are higher than the average of the new member states. Does this mean that in 2019, we had 18% more quality and abundant public services than the European average? I think we should evaluate each and every one for ourselves. The VAT revenues from the most regressive tax form which most burdens the poorest ones in 2019. They reached 14% of GDP, which is a convincing European record. And not only are we the only European country with a double-digit share of VAT income in GDP but that share in Croatia is 70% higher than the European average. In other words, by 70% we burden almost a quarter of our citizens, namely 23% in 2019. were exposed to the risk of poverty. Is it fair for the poorest to bear an average burden of unsustainable state spending? Growth in public income over the period in 3rd g. in which the Republic of Croatia achieved budget surpluses was 27%, almost 40% higher than the European average, while the growth in public expenditure at the same period was 16% and comparable to the European average. This means that the favourable fiscal results in 2019 are not the result of consolidation of public expenditure, which would represent responsible and sustainable fiscal policy-making but are exclusively the result of the growth of public revenues, and not only of EU revenues which are only recorded through the budget but also of incomes which are in the form of tax burdens from Croatian entrepreneurs and citizens and are poured into the national register. This is confirmed by the attached opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which it notes in 2018 and 2019. public expenditures are growing at a rate higher than the growth of potential GDP, and that despite the fulfilment of fiscal rules, the structural balance in 2019 is structural. worsened compared to 2018. This means that in 2019. consumption increased faster than the economy’s ability to generate public revenues. In other words, not at first sight successful 2019. There was no responsible fiscal policy, a policy aimed at increasing fiscal savings and fiscal space in the long term as it was in 2019 so that we could actually have enough savings and one form of maneuvering space to support the economy in such thin years as 2020 and 2021. Should we be surprised in such conditions that in 2020, unlike many other European states that run a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy, the Croatian government could not have allowed more direct fiscal support to citizens and entrepreneurs affected by the pandemic but rather relied on tax relief in the EU, although these incentives generally have a significantly less positive multiplier impact on the economy than on increasing support and public spending. With such irresponsible fiscal policymaking, we should not be surprised how quickly this allegedly favourable fiscal situation from 2019 melted into 2020 and 2021. The expected budget deficit of 8% of GDP in 2020 could be significantly lower that the government in those fat years when the consolidation of public expenditure could have been carried out and thus freed through savings the maneuvering fiscal space to support the economy affected by covid. Furthermore, in the good years, the government has been engaged in tax-experienced reforms aimed at tax discharge, but in this discharge, despite entrepreneurs and citizens only in 2019. the state budget has been paid around €3.5 billion more in taxes than in 2018, and the share of tax revenues in GDP has continued to increase. If the government had been saving in those years then it might have been able to meet a fully unrealised budget deficit for 2021 planned on -2.9% of GDP only in order to meet the conditional normal convergence needed to introduce the EUR in early 2023. If the government had been responsible for real fiscal consolidation instead of tax reforms that did not reduce the overall tax pressure on the economy, it would not have faced an uncompromising choice between two uncompromising alternatives today. Either continue to support the economy by increasing public spending and tax relief or respect the state budget limits for 2021, which it itself has set for Croatia to actually be able to meet the conditions related to the reduction of deficits and public debt that is necessary for the adoption and introduction of the EUR as such. If the government had indeed been responsible and had indeed been interested in fiscal sustainability then it would certainly not have happened to us in a meeting in November last year to discuss the 2021 budget that does not contain, so the 4% salary increase agreed with the trade unions while the same parliamentary debate was still under way. Because if that salary increase had been included in the budget itself, the budget deficit projected would have been over 3% of GDP and any dreaming of the EUR would have actually been completed. Such a move to vote the budget for which it was known at the time of the vote that not all the commitments undertaken by the Croatian state were actually a statement of disrespect to public service employees, but also to the HS institution as such. No pay raise item in public services is the only thing that we currently lack in these fiscal instruments. Public debt in 2020 will be around 87% of GDP, making Croatia a very high-indebted country. Responsible countries are already working on a 10-year plan to actually take account of other economic policies that will bring economies back to one framework that is actually fiscally sustainable. Does the government even work on such a plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35474	Thank you, Your Honor. We continue our presentations and discussions on behalf of the clubs. Next up is the HDZ Representatives' Club. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please. Here's to wipe out the pay phone, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35475	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here we have an annual report on the implementation of the 2019 budget and the fiscal rules that are attached. In spite of what our colleagues say, we must not forget what it was in 2019, or what period we had previously been through in terms of the previous economic crisis, and how long it took to reach the level this government had managed to do, and that for three years we have had a budget surplus and a very solid and increased credit rating. Of course, the HDZ Club will support this report and indeed all that has been done and done during this period we can be very pleased. That just in 2019 and these previous 3 years have not shown and the results are certainly with this crisis, Covid would not be able to deal with the earthquake like this, and when we add it all together then we see that everything that has been cumulated in the previous period has just given us the opportunity to help both entrepreneurs and citizens and to manage the situation very well. In 2019, it was a year that now from the perspective of 2020 we can be one way and nostalgic because the fact is that 2020 will bring a much, much harder and worse picture. The real growth of gross domestic product is 2.9% and, as previously and said, gross investment and consumption of domestic and state consumption, exports of goods and services, as well as imports of goods and services. In that period we know in 2019 she also had a record tourist season. We must also note that industrial production increased by 0.5% and was significantly increased, increased and construction activity. When we talk about other indicators, macroeconomically, then we can say that inflation was somewhere at 0.8% and that there was a strong decrease in unemployment, so the average number of unemployed was reduced by 21.9% compared to 2018 and the number of employees increased 1.5%. Also, what should be said is that compared to 2018, the balance of the current balance of payments was increased by 61.4%. The foreign debt amounted to around EUR 40.9 billion. When we talk about this particular public debt, then at the end of '19, it was exactly that much, and that was about 73.2% of GDP. What colleagues now mention can be very easy to look at on Eurostat that Belgium had in 2019. 98.6% public debt, 98.1 had France, Cyprus 95.5, Spain also, Portugal 117.7, Italy 134.8 and Greece 176.6%. Then what are we talking about? What did we not do and how did we do well? Total revenues were made with kuna 139.9 billion and that is 1.6 per cent more than the annual plan. Of course, the largest, the largest amount is tax revenues of over 82.7 billion kuna and that is what is important to say that in the structure itself is the most significant tax revenue, a value added tax of 50 almost 55 billion kuna. It is also important to note in all of this that the revenues are of assistance, and these are therefore aided by the EU institutions and bodies increased by 41% and are a significant increase compared to all previous periods. There was also an increase in income from assets. When it comes to spending, it is important to say that they were 139.9 billion or 100.6% of the expenditure planned for 2019. In this expenditure structure, EU funds are important, so the expenditure of the state budget is 13.3 billion kuna and this is an increase of 3.4 billion kuna. When we talk about just European funds, then we have to say that by February of this year, it's really over 100, and it seems to me 7%, and that the positive difference that we have made in terms of the funds paid in the European budget, that we have received more for more than 37 billion kuna than paid, which is also important to say, what is the benefit of EU membership, and it is also important to say that more than 48% is paid. In the context of expenditure, it is very important to mention that in this period of 2019 there was an increase in expenditure on both material expenditures, but also expenditure on employees and expenditure on subsidies. Compensation for citizens and households has been made with more than 49 billion kuna, and when we mention that pensions, pension incomes, as well as social care benefits have been increased, that maternity and parental benefits, allowances for children and everything else have been increased, that is, in the whole of that tax reform package since 1.1.2019, so all this reflects on the expenditures of the state budget. It must also be said that in 2019 2 billion guarantees were paid to shipyards. What I would still like to say is that despite all this, a surplus of 1.6 billion kn or 0.4% of GDP has been achieved. The public debt therefore fell to 73.2% or 12% of points compared to the previous period and these are the achievements of this government. When it comes to the application of fiscal rules, then according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, three fiscal rules, structural balance rules, proper expenditure and public debt rules are considered. The structural balance represents a deficit or surplus of the general government which does not include cyclical economic effects and one-off and temporary measures which have an impact on revenue or expenditures of the budget. Therefore, the Committee or structural balance was thus respected as it was significantly exceeded, the budgetary objective was 0.6% and the budgetary objective was 1.75%. Also, the expenditure rule does not apply because in this case, when the structural balance is equal to or greater than the medium-term budgetary objective, since the budgetary objective is exceeded, the correct expenditure is not applied and the public debt rule is also met because a reduction of 2.7% of the points of excess dynamics required by the reference criterion for the reduction of debt for the previous three-year period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35476	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We're continuing with the SDP Attorney's Club. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the debate will be held by distinguished representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35477	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. There was already an opening speech about whether this late on about some of the reports to speak for 2019, it's not even a problem that we're just discussing 2019, but it's a bigger problem for us today that we don't have answers how to endure 2021, is it, that's the question I asked the minister, how to prepare for season 2021. So the minister has skillfully avoided the answer, here we are going to secede, a little bit here, a little bit there, someone there is tourism, investment, etc., I know it's not easy for him, it's not easy to answer such a question, so we're here to discuss, and that's what I was actually saying in 2020, it was a year of shock where in fact all the negative activities related to COVID have gone to the state budget and amounted to 30 billion kn, but what we really expect today in this House of Commons in our debates, we help the government get over the year 2021. That's what I said the last time, in 2021, it's actually going to be a challenging year because it's going to be a year to get back and what instruments we're going to be able to bring back that economic growth, economic activity. These are the challenges, so I asked which instruments I can make to secure the tourist season. A few days ago we had a report or one information through a daily newspaper that banks simply closed the funding, sources of funding to prepare the tourist season. We know that, in fact, we see by the figures of the 2019 budget that most of the budget depends on VAT, it depends on tourism that we actually have the highest flow of the national VAT budget of 55 billion kn, that in that part the positive balance was tourism and how sensitive public finances are to tourism. This is shown in the 2019 budget and is actually shown for 2020. And actually what we really want to get answers about, when the recovery plan goes, we're already discussing it in January or February, so that we actually try to support the government and dynamics that as soon as possible the recovery plan? As the preparation of the tourist season will go, especially when the main sources of funding, the main sources of funding for small and medium craftsmen and entrepreneurs who can't, the state can't unfortunately take over all of the funding through HBOR and through HAMAG, it's positive, but they can't simply because so many demands they can't process and they can't give a billion to two billion kunas and through the Ministry of Tourism and through all agencies, but they can't be the main source of insurance of the tourist season and so I asked a very clear question, how to ensure a large number of Croatian entrepreneurs welcome the tourist season to eat a tourist season somehow, somehow I say are Croatian citizens or those who are somehow able to endure tourism if it wasn't good. The second season it's that part, the dangerous part, the other God can hardly bear it if the second season not to, it doesn't make any revenue. And that's why I asked about instruments or our legal decisions to ensure that. Let's not forget that the banks are in the reprogramme to start the wars, not only won't they give credit because they've frozen by 31.12. We had this report from the CNB and told the governor very clearly that the moratories, maybe by the first quarter, are now, by the end of this first quarter, so in the 4th month there are wars, do we have an answer to that? There are wars going to the tourist workers, there are wars for the citizens, there's a drop, there's a drop in measures, there's been a crisis for a year, that's what I'm talking about. So my question was about the government's instruments and we're here on good faith to open these questions, is it really this budget that shows us how vulnerable we are, what's going to happen to the reprogramme of a number of citizens is the bank 50 billion in the reprogramme, right? So 45 billion they're going to let go to charge now in a month, right? And 5 billion will unfortunately what we were actually saying, where will 5 billion of these 10%? Otic will deal with debt dealers, go to debt resellers if the bank will get rid of one part of those loans. So we have serious, serious economic challenges to say in 2021. And that's why I've said it multiple times in 2021. be the most challenging year of an independent Croatian state, is there actually going to have to be a full-time return to certain economic activity. Here we were actually talking about measures and I say, I have repeatedly held my position, that and unfortunately we are left with the only source of funding for the economy are EU funds. And as much as anyone here doesn't want to accept the EUR as a currency and look forward to not accepting it, but... Croatian citizens should be told that unfortunately this is the only salvation for Croatia right now to get the EURo. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is why our credit rating didn't drop today, why our credit prices, interest rates aren't 6-7%, etc.? Because investors, investors investing in Croatian bonds recognise that Croatia will better deal with the crisis if it has a common currency, if it makes better use of EU funds or has a source of funding to get out of the crisis. And that's why the perception of investors in Croatian bonds is better if we're EU member and that's what we have to say in plain terms, the salvation for Croatia today would, I've said it several times, negotiate with the IMF, and then unfortunately there would be both cuts and pensions and giving and allowances, etc. etc. Yeah. So here some fears about the EUR need to be demystified and told very clearly to Croatian citizens that this is a good way, that this is a good way, but with all this support in this direction we expect from the government the recovery plan as soon as possible here in the Parliament, we expect the government to finance the tourist season if banks are short of funding, if they have a risk, and right now in the accounts of the CNB is 60 billion kuna, 60 billion kuna of liquidity and says CNB we have done our part of the work, but that banks do not want to give Croatian citizens it is no longer our problem to eat, and there is now a problem how to finance the economy, and liquidity... Is there? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What will happen to Croatian citizens when the war starts from 1.4, 1.5, what will happen to these Croatian citizens, do we here in the assembly need some legal solutions so that this is not too much of a blow for Croatian citizens? We've seen in, and what's actually covering us again somehow, and that was 2008, you see what happens, what happens on the real estate market or in construction works. They, they're a powerful driver of economic growth and we'd be falling a lot more if construction activities weren't so strong, they proved very resilient even in this crisis. And where did they show that they were strong? They build apartments and what apartments do they build? On the edges of the City of Zagreb. What happens on the edges of the City of Zagreb? Real estate prices fly to the sky, over EUR 3,000. Why? Because the city's citizens, fear of earthquakes, fear of overall activity, are moving to the edges of the city. What's going on? The apartments there are sold at EUR 3,000. And so this whole balloon that we have a 10% crisis of economic activity, blocked citizens, credit problems, you have one anomaly on the construction market, as much as it encourages construction works you have to encourage that citizens simply to solve their housing issue must enter into the price of 3,000 EUR per housing, per square. And in these issues, we actually want to help the government and what instruments, which is why I have asked all the time that it is very clear whether the government has instruments, whether we as a council can bring some legal solutions to help the government with these specific measures, but these are issues that are actually of interest to Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens what will be 2 months from now, and for that we must also have the answer here today as Parliamentarians and you as government as this, but you will have a partner in us if we find those answers together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35478	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec. We're moving on, next up is the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35479	Good afternoon, everyone. And I think that, in fact, somehow as many of us are here in the assembly, here we are, until now until a colleague of the Grumoja came along even this whole part was empty, and since Minister Maric, who is usually with us at this debate when the motionary is the Ministry of Finance, shows how much this has become a side topic in parliament, and I don't think that's good. In my opinion, I say a report on the implementation of the budget for any year one of the most important documents parliament adopts and discusses and I think it's a shame that in fact this kind of treatment has received this report for several reasons. First of all, what time is it in the middle of the day that we are now discussing it, secondly that it actually has less interest of clubs and parliamentary representatives obviously now and the finance minister, and third of what is most important, and that is when we are discussing this report. It is not normal for me to discuss the budget report for that year 14 months after the end of the fiscal year. It is not even normal for me what Minister Maric said today is still good, that it is not too late because it is actually the custom to discuss last year's budget in September. So 9 months is normal, and this is 14 months, so it's not that bad just 5 months later than usual. So, I, I can't accept that. So I just can't accept that we can't get this report sooner. First of the government and the Ministry of Finance, on the other hand, that as a parliament we were unable to put it on a plenary debate of what, 5 months or more. It just becomes a groundless debate. We are now talking about something that is spilled milk in some way, something that is completely irrelevant from the perspective of today's economic situation, today's epidemiological, health, social situation. So it really bothers me because it is just a report on the implementation of the budget that is one of the key elements and tools that Parliament has to control the work of the executive authority. For a number of reasons. First, to control and assess the work of the executive government in the way economic policy, tax policy was conducted, from the perspective of income. On the other hand, to control the work of the executive authority from the perspective of expenditure. What's the cost, what's fallen, how the activities were even carried out by the executive and from the perspective of spending the funds. However, we do not clearly have the context or the need to discuss what is manifested in the interest of parliamentary representatives in view of the moment we are talking about it. And I think it's a shame, that it's a shame and we shouldn't do it like that. And if we can draw at least, at least a lesson that she's been discussing the report on the implementation of the state budget for 2020 this year, and not God to come to us in 2022 just like that. Now, I could, I won't talk for long, I could say this now that the government boasted that the public debt had reduced it to 73% of GDP, that there was little shortage of Covid to drop below 70%, but that we would probably now go, as 85% as the minister estimates, that there was boasting that the ESO procedure was a third year surplus, that it was now reportedly 1.6 billion in 2019 and 0.4% of GDP, respectively. However, we also see that expenditures were a billion kunas higher than what was planned in the budget. I'd say a little bit about expenses, though. For example, expenditure on official travel compared to what it meant in 2018 is 304 million kuna on as many as 362 million kuna. It's a very interesting increase. I don't know what he's justified for. Neither from the perspective of the EU presidency, nor do I see any reason for that. On the other hand, expenditure on material and energy is a very interesting item in that classification. So 4.89 billion kuna were expenditures in 2018, the plan for 2019 was 200 million kuna more and 5.1 billion kuna respectively, and eventually the execution was 5.63 billion kuna and 530 million kuna, respectively, more than the plan, and 730 million kuna more than last year and 2018 respectively. That is quite, quite a breakthrough of the plan that the Government gave itself in terms of expenditure for 2019 compared to what has been achieved and what has been done. So I'll repeat, the plan was for 2019. 5.1 billion eventually were $5.63 billion precisely in these energy expenditures, energy and material. Also, I have always found the most interesting item of expenditure for external services increased by 13% compared to 2018. From $5.85 billion to $6.62 billion. It means 23% growth, for example in promotion and information services. So 23% were growing expenditure on promotional and information services, and I'm very interested in how exactly such services were going, who got these jobs, whether it was the same as we saw now for foreign promotion and vaccination promotion services, how these jobs were assigned, to whom it was again related to the party structures of HDZ, etc. On the other hand, growth was even 13% in intellectual and personal services. I'm also going to say the same thing for the end of the functional classification. For example, in activities in the functions of the state, in activities related to environmental protection, what was achieved in 2019 was as much as 10% less than planned. So it was planned to be 1.3 billion kuna, and eventually it was realised to mean about billions and 188 million kuna. So it was growth, big growth compared to 2018, but the submerge in terms of planned and in terms of being achieved by even about 10%, that's the biggest submergence, meaning the biggest difference in terms of what was planned in relation to what was achieved from all functions of the state, meaning of all functions of the state or activities in this function classification of expenditure. So it also shows that it was obviously less worked and that it was obviously less of a priority than usually in this government when it comes to environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35480	Thank you, Honorable Representative Tomasevic. We are now continuing with an individual debate, the first reported for individual debate, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35481	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. It is very unusual to discuss the 2019 report at the end of February 2021. A lot less would have been, it would have been simpler if we hadn't had that unfortunate 2020, that corona or COVID-19. This report for 2019 has somehow melted in the context of everything that happened in 2020, about who snows persistently on CMROK Mr Bandić is working there, working cannons and then it's outside +18 and it's not known if it melts faster or faster cannons can produce so much snow. Why? Because for 2019, when we look at this report without the crown that was in 2020, then we have all the option that everything is wonderful, that everything is fine, that everything that is so that we have achieved our success and then the crown that was 2020, and which is still, unfortunately, and where we were in that one hard lockdown one period, showed that we're actually doing everything on one flimsy, not to say glass feet. So, for example, the Committee for the fiscal policy of the Croatian Parliament in its report warned that the expenditures of the state grow faster than potential economic growth, meaning that savings from previous years have been spent and not less space for a stronger impact and the functioning of fiscal policy in crisis conditions and the crisis should not be stressed, exactly what happened to us in the meantime. And the growth of expenditure faster than potential economic growth is exactly the dangerous spiral that keeps us in trouble all the time. And in 2020, it showed exactly the scales of our problems that we have. I'd rather rather not now and now that we can discuss something else, so what we have to do, we have to get experience out of 2020. You know, when you experience such a crisis and these exchanges, then you have a series of things and these things are the things that the country experiences. It is no wonder that I also referred the replica to the minister when he was, when I talked about GDP in 2019 and ended up at 2.9, everyone says that around GDP needs to be 4% to come and catch a connection with other countries. The crisis we've been through, which we've been getting out of for 11 years, has shown that we weren't ready to catch a connection with some other countries. I am absolutely sure that the fact that we were a member of the EU during the crown helped us and I would like to discuss something called the recovery and resilience mechanism in this debate we have in the Croatian Parliament. It is a 672m-euro mechanism. Since February 19th officially in office, so we are today February 24th. The deadline for the submission of national programmes is 30 April, after which the Commission will also approve the councils. The main criteria for assessing the plans are the measure in which they comply with the objectives of the mechanism. First of all, with green and digital transition, economic social cohesion and resilience, job creation, improving the resilience of health systems and policies for the next generation and people and young people, including education and skills. In doing so, at least 37% of the funds must be invested in projects and reforms that support climate objectives and 20% in digital transition. Croatia can receive 6 billion euros of grants from the recovery and resistance mechanism and around 3 billion euros in loans. That's what we have to be prepared for. That's what we have to do. You know, to win the lottery, the basic condition is to buy you a lucky one. And then the second condition is to meet that happiness, and then the third is to pay. Without that, you can have a winning number, a winning combination, but you won't. Prime Minister Plenkovic said from this speaker that the plan, the plan and the debate of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament and the tendency to bypass, would already become traditional, but which should not be bypassed and those not allowed are Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens react from their impotence. Lately, of course, one of the caterers has been filling pages from all the media, that was the expression of his impotence because they know more how to proceed. Mr. Plenkovic may have a plan in this plan that we can support but should know It would be appropriate for this Croatian Parliament and we represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to know the basic elements of that plan. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35482	Thank you very much, stay, please, distinguished speakers, you have several replicas. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35483	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we were just talking about being late with these 2021 reports for 2019, and I was saying in my debate that when we discuss measures for the tourist season, this caterer actually expressed a cry about how to prepare the tourist season, how another year we lose our income, and that's what we're stressing in today's debate, means what measures it is, when the government is going to come out with measures, how to prepare the tourist season when this budget has shown us how sensitive we are to tourism, how important it is that people already know how to prepare the tourist season, and I think that this whole today's debate is if the government responds to this debate, that however, people are going to prepare, that it is still one contribution, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35484	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35485	Thank you very much. So, I have to admit, I feel so little I don't know what word to use, but I'm going to use the easiest possible words, a little flabby, that now we're talking about this report with some gleam and energy for 2019 after it happened to us in 2020. So what we're saying, we need to talk about the context as far as we go. So, in 2020, it's there, it didn't happen to us, it happened to Europe, it happened to the world, and everyone will come out of it in the best possible way. It has proved to us that our economy depends on tourism. That we hang out on those few months where the tourist season will be. I have to remind you of last tourist season, regardless of the crown, we were one of the countries that was open to it all together. And equally, so this is what I read as cry people who say let's see what happens, let's just kind of see what's waiting for us. Maybe this recovery plan that the government came up with together, or the prime minister with its associates, is great, but you can't say if it's good or what it is when you don't know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35486	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35487	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, do you agree with Minister Maric that the focus should be on cutting expenditure and do you think that it is possible because health care is already missing between 10 and 11 billion kn today and since the minister did not have an answer to the issue of preparing the season, it is obvious that the minister has no vision of helping the Croatian economy, he also intends to keep the state of the Croatian economy and GDP in such a way that we are dependent on personal consumption or on the one in the malls, literally. Do you think it's better to boost investment, net exports? What do you think about shutting down Croatian production, from sugar production, from shipbuilding, from refinery, from Petrochemy in the last four years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35488	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35489	Thank you very much. So, the debate on the implementation of the 2019 budget is hard to work in the context without even asking the questions that we are asking, without, say, Prime Minister Plenkovic, because these questions that you have asked are questions that we have been asking for some time. We asked these questions when it was debated on the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, we asked what kind of Croatia we will do in 2030, whether, therefore, one of the models that some have proposed said, Croatia could be the country where the pensioners of Europe will come to live, so I don't know, in Normandy, they will rent in Paris and live in Croatia because it will be cheaper for them. And it would be fair to say these ideas and visions because if we had to know today what we would be in 2030 and build on that a series of things that are related to tax policy, education and a number of others. We didn't get that answer then, I don't think we'd get it today either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35490	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35491	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I'm going to ask you something that you've been particularly concerned with lately, of course justifiable. We're aware there's no money. We're talking about 2019, maybe even better if we don't talk about 2021 and the recovery plan because there's just a disaster waiting for us, maybe in 2023 when we talk about it, we'll have a better chance. I'm going to ask you about the recovery plan of the city of Zagreb. How to recover Zagreb when the money is gone, the state's money does not have a famous EU Solidarity Fund in which we swore to give money, which we were silenced, of course, to return only to the situation that preceded the earthquake? So, something that we're completely under-sufficient and contrary to the renewal law that we voted for that requires construction reconstruction over the one that didn't work out why everything fell apart in the earthquake?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35492	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35493	Thank you very much for that question. The answer can be simple and can be said in one sentence, which is if one is headed by Zagreb for 20 years and has no idea what kind of Zagreb wants in 2025, let alone 2050, but the kind of Zagreb wants for itself and its godmothers and friends, it is time to go, but it will leave behind, and at this time there are debts that are in the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has a budget that is over 10 billion no matter how high or not high, we've been doing some analysis of how many debts, these are both loans and everything else, it seems to me that another such budget is. Not that it seems to me, but that analysis should, in fact, be done. But there's a string of things. One of the things is that in the city of Zagreb there were some too many big steps and large investments and the earthquake was only seen as a parade. Mayor Bandic has a great parade when he doesn't have to work, but when he has to work, he's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35494	Thank you. And the last one who wants to rephrase to you, distinguished representative Marko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35495	Honorable MPs, esteemed vice president. Well, I'm sorry to hear you're talking about the national recovery plan as a lot, but maybe you understand that because you and your government lost a billion euros in this envelope while you were away. It was clear in the regulation that the countries that entered before 2013 and in the crisis lost more than 10% of GDP, they received 10% more. You didn't fight for a billion euros then, we could now have a billion euros for Croatian citizens. And when you're talking about the lot and you won't get away with it, it won't do you any good, you've been panicking the same for the Solidarity Fund, so we got a record amount. We have now received the largest share of the fund's grants in the EU's national recovery programme. All countries will send a joint 30.4th proposal, the proposal is agreed with the commission and will be sent on time. Don't panic, if you're playing with that lotto, you've been gambling with the last envelope.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35496	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35497	So the paper suffered all sorts of things. There's a big difference between paper and reality. Likewise, you know very well because you were at the head of that ministry to have several phases, that one of the phases is bargaining and the final stage is actually the realization, that between the bargaining and the realization is a long way to go. You know very well... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35498	Comrade Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35499	I've never been in your word, and I never do, and when you guys get in there, it says something about you, not about me. But you also know well that the funds that we received or received, we received it in the account of the Ministry of Finance in connection with the reconstruction after the earthquake, we must realize, implement it in 18 months. Show the contracts signed for design. They're gone. So I'm not a panic person, I'm just a person who reads and talks about what's really the situation. In Zagreb it has been 11 months since the earthquake, show one, one building that is in systematic reconstruction. Zero. None.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35500	Thank you. I've given you a little more time because you've lost a few seconds to the incursions of your colleagues. We continue with individual debates, and the next is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35501	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are talking about the implementation of the 2019 budget, so I'm stuck with how powerful and how poor are trampled in Croatia. As the poorest are trampled on, I'm going to do it in the second part, but as it suits powerful multinational companies, so it would set up state secretaries, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, how do you comment that the reduced revenues for the teleoperate concession amounting to a billion kuna? Which is why you cut their compensation for using radio frequencies, radio frequencies, which is why, what's the reason? It means guessing only strong in the Republic of Croatia where the largest profits are made by teleopers in the EU i.e. in Europe, 42% of the margin, this might explain, I saw that he is an expert in this matter as a former minister, which is why teleoperate, foreign teleopererator, while our children have to wait from the hills in rural areas, do they have a signal when online teaching, that's not a problem? The worst internet, first in corruption and most expensive citizens pay the Internet, that's Croatia. A billion kuna, why did you forgive them, is it perhaps that the Misetic dynasty ordered, who ordered, who runs this government, who runs the Misetic or Prime Minister Plenkovic dynasty? Here you ask a number of questions given by a family that has an impact on T-com i.e. In HT, a billion kuna is forgiven, if the fee, is not reduced to the price of people's cell phones, no, not the worst Internet, which is the state of corruption, and the poor are not being helped. You saw what the earthquake revealed, you saw what the earthquake exposed in Banovina, it exposed all the bad policies. Subsidies, incentives, we never gave outside the budget any more incentives if we're going to watch, never again encourage, never again import, EUR 3 billion in food products. Who do they encourage? There was a mention of shipbuilding. Take a look at the example of Danke Končar where the workers of "Brodotrogira" work his hotels and do not receive salaries, and the "Brodotrogir" has been destroyed, but Danko Končar continues to dance his dance. So who runs this government, is it those who finance them or those whom they please? Why do we have such a thing, while the “Brodotrogira” workers do not receive their salaries for 7 months, the state has fulfilled all its obligations according to “Brodotrogir” in restructuring, all according to Danko Končar, and he does not pay workers and instead of 650 workers we have 200 who do not receive wages except some company that he has opened specifically for those who serve him, he has budgeted it? I'm asking you, I'm expecting answers. Can you give a reason why in 2019 the teleoperators for a billion kuna fee, concessions, were forgiven? So we charged him less. For what? Can you give us a reason? And in Croatia alone, they do not have a building permit to set up base stations, put them on health homes, put them on kindergartens, schools, whatever they think of. I can't behave like that in Germany. You can't tell me I'm against technology development, though, and let them behave like in countries where teleopers come from, not just profits and profits from them. The same is true of banks, I expected the minister to come here when we see what the economy is in, the interest moratorium and the loans are the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia. Now five billion kunas a year have this commission profit, clean, commissions and fees, five, five hundred and fifty hundred of them, no interest, five billion kuna, five billion kuna. So, they're insolvent, and our caterers, they're surprised at the prime minister when some caterer reacts, so how would the triba react when you hit the strong and the poor? You have trampled the poor from the “Brodotrogira” workers to the caterer and their workers. But the banks don't understand what Slovenia brought, the moratorium on interest and loans while the crisis is going on, what's the problem? Well, that's not supposed to move. Teleoperators don't smell the movement of these dynasties they manage, I mentioned the Mišetic Dynasty of examples that has a direct link to HT i.e. Deutsche Telekom to the government, direct link, ask your colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, which is why the teleoperators are forgiven by a billion kuna, ask around, and it is not a reduced account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35502	You have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35503	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, today I was at a meeting online with the OECD and some representatives were actually telling the truth about Croatia and corruption, I did not want to defile my country. We're talking about corruption in Croatia here. But I was talking about what you're talking about here. They asked us if we knew about cases of Croatian companies corrupting foreign officials. I said I'd never heard of it, our economy is too weak for us to export corruption, but corruption is being imported into Croatia. And you know who's corrupting? It's the ones you're talking about. And I just mentioned Deutsche Telekom, it's a company that isn't just involved in these affairs that you're talking about. It is amazing that the government forgives this kind of money to HT without Croatian citizens having anything to do with it. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35504	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35505	So the government of the Republic of Croatia has a direct link with Deutsche Telekom via HT, it's the Misetic family and it's the one who doesn't have the courage to say it's quite clear, it sees everyone. A billion kunas have forgiven me for the frequency of teleoperate compensation for concessions, a billion kunas. Well, Germany, when 5G was introduced, Germany, their company, Deutsche Telekom, charged 20 billion euros. How long are we for the introduction of 5G, is there any kuna? This is not against the development of technology, only in Croatia does the construction permit set up base stations. I only ask as a man that the same criteria are for teleopers as in Germany where they come from either in Sweden, whether in Austria the same criteria in Croatia or more. They can declare me against technology, against development. No, I am to make the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the same as the citizens of other states.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35506	Next replica Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35507	Dear fellow Bull. If someone feels problems with the budget, they certainly feel those parts of Croatia that need special support from the state. So I'm going to ask you to repeat again, given that you've engaged so much in the Dalmatian Burn, which all the projects you've proposed to support, and they didn't come true because there wasn't enough hearing from the ruling?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35508	Thank you very much for this question. Not only did I propose through the amendments not accepted but it was the government's sessions and in Split for a date on the Sinja-Imotski highway, the Ravca-Drvenik Vrgorak tunnel, which they brought four years ago 2 billion kuna to invest, 2 billion. Now behind me is Vice President Ante Sanader, co-worker at the county assembly, president of the HDZ 2 billion kuna, you know what was done in the county? Zero, nothing, nothing, they even laid stone foundations that they didn't have to have expenses on the arrival of guests, speeches, lambs, and all the tributaries. So I even contributed to them, the Split-Dalmatia County gave the biggest county is forgotten, only now that the tunnel from the tunnel of the non-existent to Vucevica, there Ante Sanader very well knows how long, doing road 40 million kuna, and the Cetina end of 50,000 people nothing, zero, nothing, nothing mayor of Bobana, nothing, di tent to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35509	Time. Not exactly, you saw it in the last election you're seeing it's not exactly how you say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35510	What's it like, then? Give me the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35511	You've seen the results Next replica. [[Intruder Bulj: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35512	The Honorable Chairman. You're not here to comment and say that or not, you're here to hold a session. He's been injured. 238, Art. 238, was injured. 24th, and the results of the election don't speak. The election results don't talk about the truth, they say that you have financial power, that you pay the media, that you buy the polls, that you love, that it just says Don't talk about whether or not it's something [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's made or not made. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35513	Time, I give you a warning because it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and if you think the elections don't need the state it's some new democracy. Marija Selak Raspoudić is next injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35514	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure also cited articles. It is an incredible abuse of a moderator position which is the position of HS president in the debate. You are not here to express your opinion, if you wish, you can speak from the position of the parliamentary representative. You're just here to make sure everything happens in the Rules of Procedure. This way you can stop for this pay phone and give the whole speech, and we'll all be silent and clapping, as the left-hand side does most of the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35515	You didn't talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my warning. I'm here directly invited and it's only logical to say my review. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Miro, were you an injury? What? Here's Miro's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35516	Thank you very much, esteemed Chairman Ante Sanader. From word to word, I told the truth, you hurt the entire Rules of Procedure because you as chairman have commented on my statements. You could have come and given yourself a replica, anything at all, but I think the Tribals would have finally given themselves a reminder because of this equative example of a violation of the HS Rules of Procedure that has legal power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35517	This time I'll give you a warning, so Mr. Miro Bulj warns because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35518	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President has just been injured by the representatives of the Bridge. 238. Insulting you. You have only corrected the incorrect data, and you know yourself you have visited many projects that over 5.5 billion euro of kuna funds have been invested in the Split-Dalmatia County. Therefore, if nothing has been invested is true, you've only corrected the data and colleagues what they're doing is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35519	Is you've told all the absolute truth, but this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either of you so you'll get a warning too. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35520	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman. You keep breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're not here to determine what's true and what's not true. Have a look at the projects Mr. Pavić announced at the government meeting in Split, and you will see that you have done nothing, you have invested zero kuna in the Split-Dalmatia County. And the election results we'll see now, I've heard there's panic, and you're especially afraid of the one standing in front of you, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35521	Mr. Grumoja, so it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you've already suffered defeat and you'll experience it again, don't worry about it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marija Selak Rasudić We'll see. [[You won't do it this time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35522	Once again Article 238, the first fellow MOSTs did not insult anyone, you will forgive us if we, as parliamentary representatives, have noticed that we know something about how it is modernized because we have modified many of the debates ourselves. And I will once again point out that this very chairman shares reminders with a hand and a hat that are not based on the conduct of the parliamentary representatives and I thank you in advance for another reminder that you will grant me in such a heat and with so much love after I turn off the microphone now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35523	And you obviously think you're in class and you can give us lectures. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning too. Next replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know, and today we've actually given up and we all know that 31.12. most moratories have expired, those who have managed to get these moratories to 31.3. most moratories on tourist loans point out, that when the war starts on April 1st, May and when the wars start, how people will be able to, have a fall of income will be significant again, and I see that you emphasized that part there, so here's your opinion. I see there are no intervention measures to further save tourism, so here's your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35525	Moratorium on loans and interest was the first measure in Slovenia, not so far from here. So the first measure and he thinks it's minimal what the tribal is done because the banks are solvable have huge profits, huge money has been drawn out, the sneaky fellow Lalovec you know well from pockets through fees and fees to our citizens and interest. 500 fees and commissions. So five billion kunas a year. And the moratorium on loans and interest, but also interest, we didn't put on interest. So whoever took the moratorium in the end would come up with a more expensive loan than it was. So a moratorium on loans and interest would be a strong measure. And that's why hospitality is in trouble. Tourist workers, the activities everyone deals with are in a huge problem. People's tribune help with that measure. This measure has been adopted in other countries, this is not populist, if Slovenia could not have moratorium on interest and loans to Croatia, the basic question here. And it would be good if there was a little prime minister out there who could be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35526	The next replica is the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35527	Dear fellow Bull, I wonder why you're so pessimistic. By ruling to forgive the concession, or by reducing it by a billion kuna, our citizens get nothing for it, our oil surrenders to Hungary, our gas refineries, our losers, state losers pump hundreds of millions of kunas, and traffic is gone, am I actually wrong or are you in a completely parallel world?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35528	Unfortunately, the rich behave here as a superhic, this government, with this budget they praise. They pump and forgive the rich for huge fees such as the most expensive teleopers in Croatia have a service for our citizens where they have the worst Internet, and where corruption flourishes. And that's that link between, that's that super-hycic policy. All on the burden of the poor. Or an example of shipbuilding in Trogir, Brodotrogir, workers live absolutely for 7 months without the salary of people living, while this owner Danko Končar buys hotels and these same workers make hotels for him who do not receive salaries, unintended funds that are given to make ships but their investments. So we had a problem with concessions here in Split-Dalmatia County, this is true, coalitions are created because of concessions either Ben, whether the Golden War, so it's all the people's triba to use, being of the benefit of the poorest, but in us it's vice versatile to our greatest good as the INA and what you've numbered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35529	Next individual debate, Nikola Grmoya, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35530	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Kujundzic, on behalf of the club, processed this report, but I would repeat some major thesis and slightly expanded them. Therefore, it is clear that these favourable fiscal results are not the result of the consolidation of public expenditure, meaning some responsible policy that goes towards cutting state spending, but only growth, they are the fruit of public income growth and that income from the EU but also income in the form of tax burdens. This expected budget deficit, which means the 8% of GDP deficit in 2020, could be significantly, significantly lower, that the government has implemented responsible policy, fiscal policy, and this story that they have disbursed, we have had several circles and tax reforms, of course we have always supported these tax redundancies, but that is some kind of, I don't know some big contribution to Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian craftsmen, the fact that entrepreneurs and citizens only in 2019 have paid 3.5 billion kuna of taxes more than in 2018. So, you've been filling the budget by peeling our citizens and then, here's Ante Sanader, our chairman, is going to brag about some kind of infrastructure projects. That is not even a tenth of what you have promised, and that does not mean a tenth of what you have chosen from the citizens, from the entrepreneurs and the craftsmen. And all these rounds of tax reform aren't enough, and within that tax reform, we get everything we've been through. Remember that first round of tax reform, my colleague Kristic and I are the only representatives who have warned about reducing the rate of disproportionate property. We were supported by a colleague of Lalovac's, I remember in that debate, and then we stopped you from reducing your rate, and what did you do? You have abolished that, in order to investigate the disproportionateness of assets for the period from 2005 to 2015, And now it can only be explored for the last six years. Where's Father's age? No more father's time. The disproportionateness of the assets cannot be explored for the period while Ivo Sanader was the Croatian prime minister, and the budget could be filled from that. These are the ones you forgive. Those who illegally acquired property, these big, these corporations that Mr. Bull is talking about, so HT, Deutsche Telekom. Why? It's the link in the Ban Courts. There was no meeting where I was, and there was no Misetic theme there, and we all know what influence the Misetic family has in Deutsche Telekom, and through it in the Croatian government and then these billions are forgiven, which is spoken of by my colleague Bulj. And those billions that were forgiven were to go to Croatian citizens, they were to go to Croatian citizens. And he's right when he says, so we're not looking, we're not against technology development, but he can't be in Croatia that he doesn't need a license to set up base stations, and in other countries, their home countries need it. And that's why I didn't talk to the OECD about corruption in Croatia on purpose today. Why? Because I don't want to muddle my country even though there's a lot to talk about and I've been talking about these corporations that are corrupting in Croatia. And if there were less of this corruption, if there were more of the tax cuts, there would be more money, so to the Croatian citizens, and we would start the economy. So we get most of the money we draw, I mean, we pull it out, we invest it in the EU, it goes into some public affairs, public infrastructure, instead of investing in Croatian entrepreneurship, in modernising business, so what if we get a new crisis? What do you think Ante Sanader is going to get us out of this crisis? Well, Ante Sanader won't get us out of here. We'll be pulled out by a healthy Croatian entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35531	Replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35532	The esteemed, esteemed colleague of the bush may not be able to get us out, but that's why he can pull us in or he's already dragged us in. So, I'd like to ask you something about what we fought for, which is HGK, the suspension of membership fees. We've seen how it ended, but I don't know why we'd complain, but 40 kuna to one entrepreneur like our prime minister said. Now you move on or we're moving on, we're moving on with the HOK. What do you predict will happen to this debate, will we be able to unite again at least to show this symbolic message how important it is for entrepreneurship to pass through and how important it is that opposition proposals are at all experienced, and we see now that this point is being discussed tomorrow and after which law, so what do we hope, another debate from 10 o'clock to 3 o'clock in the morning that no one will hear or see?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35533	Well, we had a debate about the HGK that many heard and saw because we also had a division in the ruling majority. I'd like to ask, here are the representatives of Mrs. Crescent. Vucimilović, representative of the Homeland Movement, we have from the Centre, we have from We can, the SDP, I would ask all the opposition clubs to vote, well, this yes, to support this proposal. Why does it matter? Let's not split and now fall for these stories that HDZ tells, this proposal is too simple, it's an amendment to an article, it's about abolishing mandatory membership fees. If we're unique, we'll at least make them come to some conclusion that they'll reform the HOK, and we'll call them this one. So let's show unity tomorrow in the debate at the vote, and we will certainly support all the opposition proposals as we have so far in favour of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35534	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35535	Thank you very much. For the politics of super hick, for the rich, take the poor, that's the case in teleopers and other cases. It happens that we have 6% of GDP in 2019, even the minister said that the increase in 2019 is compared to the previous year in terms of the signs of our people who have moved out, and only because of poor policies. Because to invest in a cetin end of an example, irrelevantly, in other places with, say, a fast road connected to the highway, that would be the most prospective environment for life from Savudria to, like, Prevlaka. Al does not invest, it is promised, it is not invested, it is not invested in our 2/3 and that is why we are not self-sufficient, we are not self-sustainable in 2/3 of Croatia, people are leaving, and we have to do everything to keep people in this area. However, the policy of the burned country and the empty areas is the worst that leaves this political elite behind Toma triba stat at the end [[Intruder: Time]] And they're looking into it from the budget. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35536	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35537	As a Croatian patriot, I was thinking about what kind of policy Croatia should lead economically and therefore as time moves away and as I grow older, I am a growing economic liberal. Why? So, when we have a state regulation, who can influence the rule of law and regulations in his favor? Great players, corporations, and small Croatian entrepreneurs cannot influence. Less states, less regulation, less chances that the Misetic family, Deutsche Telekom and others are affecting the Croatian government, and more chances for Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, so here's one I don't know if we'll agree to, but I'm somewhere on the trail. So I am for a strong country regarding the military, security, protection of Croatian citizens, but as far as the economy of a smaller state is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35538	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35539	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. I always tell my students that there is no healthy entrepreneurship without democracy, and democracy without freedom of the media. And that's why I will always stand up for you, and I'm glad to hear that about entrepreneurs and healthy liberal entrepreneurship and a healthy competition because that's what we advocate for democracy in our society, for freedom of the media, and that's what's key. But let's go back to this budget. The fact is that from year to year expenditures are growing, status quo is maintained, and therefore your suggestions are that this chamber system and not only the chambers but also some other institutions shake from time to time because simply this sleep and maintenance of stability does not lead us to anyone where it is good and forward but keeps us at the beginning of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35540	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35541	I couldn't agree more with everything you said. So, of course not only the chamber system, we have a whole series of parafiscal duties and everything else, which is why I said that any such initiative that comes from the opposition will support and we will be there for both the signature and the support in the debate and the vote. When we talk about the media, yes, we have a huge problem, so you in Croatia can't get a national concession for some medium if you don't have any link to the rulings. And I'm watching today HDZ complains about a fake poll. So how much money did you spend on rating agencies, how much money did you spend on all kinds of media, and now you're complaining about fake polling? Well, with the fake polls, we've been fighting your media since 2013 and you haven't. It says Ante Sanader that you defeated us, you didn't defeat us. We're still pummeling you to the final victory. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35542	Time. Is winning you the election it's true Dear representative of Anka Dark Taritash, here's your replica. [[You're commenting again.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35543	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. I wanted to give the replica on one subject, but unfortunately that siren call when someone says something to you, so this attitude towards entrepreneurship, or you're a young man, regardless of what you said, but a man learns while he's alive. So today we had an interesting debate about islands that also showed the role of the state. The role of the state should then be when something needs to be regulated, when it is necessary to help in disasters such as the crown, such as the earthquake, but in normal conditions let the state not help, let alone, I always experience the state as some kind of route, so the state is a route, and what kind of car someone will drive along that highway depends on its possibilities. The same role of the state is to encourage, help and therefore work to help investment small entrepreneurs and everyone else because who fills the budget? So they fill my people's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35544	Excuse me, Officer Miro Bulj's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35545	Thank you very much. You have injured the chairman. 231. If you're commenting, we shouldn't. You would be chairing all parliamentary deputies equally, not every time you comment. You have the opportunity as a parliamentary representative to leave the Vice-President of the Parliament to each other of your colleagues and to comment on it all together either through replicas or through other instruments. So you're breaking the Rules of Procedure all the time. And whoever wins, we'll see. Most of the time, there's no surrender.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35546	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning that's your third warning and you have a confiscation of words until the end of this debate. I was just reacting to a similar article. 238th, which in section 5. That's exactly what regulates it. The next individual debate is a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35547	I have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35548	Excuse me. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35549	Well, except you're commenting now and you're taking away the right to say something, but well that just shows that your fear is great, that's what makes us happy. And as for what you said, I agree here about the role of the state and I said where the state should play a role and where it is necessary, and where it would be better to have it less because it showed up where there's more there and corruption, there's a chance of entanglement. And then HDZ colleagues get angry about the frustration of our caterers, our entrepreneurs, and they're angry, you realize they're angry. They have a reason to be. No one hates you, no one here ever told you that you're not human, no one wanted to dehumanize you, but you're not doing well, and you don't want to be told that. I have to tell you, you're not doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35550	Following individual debates, Marko Pavić is the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35551	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So the election was how long ago? 6.7 months, citizens gave us confidence and apparently think we did something right. And that something good we've done speaks enough and responsible fiscal and monetary policy. When we look at 2019. The implementation of the budget where we have achieved the surplus of the general state needs to go back a little bit to the past and see how that has even arisen. Today, I asked Mr. Sipu Mayor when the highways were, when we bonded on the highway, I reminded myself that they were 2017. – 2018. So, the previous government of Mr Plenkovic, 2017, is going to refinance the highways, stings on interest so much that there are no further discussions on nationalisation, monetisation, concessions, highways there, they have not gone anywhere and a sustainable model of financing has been found because the Ministry of Finance has saved on interest. And the work of Deputy Prime Minister Maric now personally set out to respect and appreciate when I realized that at the annual level, the Ministry of Finance saves on interest more than I share active employment policy measures. And it is precisely that such a responsible policy that, three years in a row, we are achieving a surplus of the general state has led to the result of 2020. And I'm not afraid to talk about 2020 and 2021 at all. Why? For starters, we held up and raised the credit rating. The previous government put him down three times, we raised him and held him back in a crisis year. So we kept the trust of financial institutions. We introduced Croatia and congratulations to both you and Governor Vujčić, we introduced the Croatian ERM II mechanism. Everyone forgets when it couldn't be owed, when the crown started last year, the prime minister called Christine Lagarde that we had yesterday heard on the European Parliamentary Week and is agreeing to enter the ERM II mechanism, a 2 billion-euro swap loan is being agreed. What does that mean? This means that we deposit 15 billion kuna to the European Central Bank, they give us 2 billion euros. After that, we go into a rebalancing where we manage to keep the spending side, and all the time we're cutting taxes to entrepreneurs, and on that basis we get cheap borrowings, capital access and credit ratings. All this leads to the fact that the institutions in the world of countries to many others who have not been in charge, where they have torn down credit ratings and the EU countries are just increasing our credit rating with small interest rates. Knowing how much we will get from the European funds, EUR 24.2 billion from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and from the multiannual financial framework, we are moving to never make a historic payment to the private sector with 13 billion kunas and 9 billion dollars paid out for 4 billion dollars. When we talk about EU funds that were clogged and reflected in the 2019 budget and look at the results here on 11 February 113.96% of the contract. Someone asks, the opposition keeps asking for 48.26% payment, so almost half paid and what's important for all Eurosceptics 37.9 billion kunas more money received from the European budget than we've paid. And to remind you, we took over the state of 2016, 9% of the contract, 1% of the payout, 114% of the contract, 50% of the payout. Therefore, congratulations to the Ministry of Finance that this is how she led the state and that we were able to react well in this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35552	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35553	Your Honor, I really don't understand why every HDZ representative on every argument says but we got the election. So let me tell you something contrary to those 16.4% of voters on which you now rule the state is another Croatia. And she's evicted, displaced, destitute, disreputed and in charge. You mentioned that you helped entrepreneurs, so what the entrepreneurs think about your measures also showed recent protests. Understand that the message is that even entrepreneurs are no longer satisfied with these cosmetic changes and with the reduction of a few feet. Entrepreneurs are looking for structural reforms, and this particular government is running away from them. And let me just say something to you when you're already congratulating each other, and so does the Ministry of Finance, the real indicator of success is standard, standard of living and the satisfaction of all citizens not only voters and HDZ members. And it's only 16.4% of you. In the next election I hope less. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35554	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35555	Thank you very much. My colleagues Oreskovic, I can understand your frustration that you will always be in percentage, 2 and that you will never participate in power, but it is up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35556	Next replica, Nicola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35557	Thank you. Dear fellow Pavic, when we talk about the election, and if that's any argument to you, so you begged us last Friday to be there for the quorum, you were whining, so you called over the phone not to break your quorum. When you split up means around the HGK, then you emigrated to the media the Prime Minister that he would never forgive us. Watch out, you win the election and we need to keep you quorum. So when you beat us what you call us more people of God and then you still complain when we're not here. When you beat us like that in the election and the crown of the elections you've organized in conditions that are not normal. Come on, get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35558	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35559	The Honored Chairman was injured in Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grumoy, insults the MPs. I hold it when he speaks to Mr. Pavic to address himself in plural. I know that I haven't moved or whine to anyone and that's who tells me I'm being insulted. If it's a gentleman's normal conversation, let him talk home, not here to us. He insulted me today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35560	Okay, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35561	Injury. 238. Comrade Brkan, you are a member of the HDZ Club, since you have never once shown autonomy in your vote, here I demand that when it comes to being an HOC to show that you are autonomous, so when Branko Bačić calls me, I will not identify it with you. Since you always vote as Branko Bačić says, I hold when he calls me and whines Branko Bačić, you're whining too. [[Intruder: Time]] and that you're calling me. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35562	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, according to the article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder of taking away your words until the end of this debate. The next replica of the distinguished representative of Vesna And the answer, I'm sorry, here's the answer. [[Intruder Pavić: We have an answer]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35563	Well, thank you very much. Well, Mr. Grmoy, I've only referred to your findings that we've lost the trust of the people, and the elections have been recently. So we've clearly formed most of them, that's where we have most of them. I'm sorry that you took advantage of Mr. Tudjman's death or his condition back then. For the sake of public pressure, you may have come some other time, but what was the argument is that if you're saying that we lost the citizens' trust that we just recently got it, they gave us trust unlike twice when they didn't trust you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35564	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35565	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Pavic, I don't know why you're angry, so the fact is that every little bit you don't have a quorum, I mean that's a fact, it's pure mathematics, which is 1, 2, 3, we're counting on it, so we get to 74, but well, I won't get involved in it. As for interest and borrowing, I have pointed out several times that every economist knows that we have been in a low interest rate period for years and that's good and they are still low and we hope that they will remain that way. And I don't know about the money from EU funds, so in 2019, this report says that expenditure financed from EU funds had a 9.5% share. So let's not think that we'll solve everything with EU funds because we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35566	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35567	Thank you very much. Well, respected MPs, the fact that I know is that you, as an opposition, have never gathered 75 hands in the history of this call to date, on any government interpretation, on any point, you have not collected 75 hands, so that this doctoring, and your representatives are sitting at home, we respond to each vote and vote. Yours, count your ranks who sits at home, who is not here on Fridays at the vote, who doesn't earn his salary, count it amongst your ranks. As far as the surpluses are concerned, I'm really here to congratulate the ministry. The share of EU funds, you are right, is in GDP and in the budget is small, but it is developed. And he's developed and he's not going into consumption right now, he's going into development projects. We saw this morning which means a billion kuna for the development of ports on islands, it's you... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35568	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35569	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, you explained this well, these are your discussions and what we did in 2019, I think we are equally responsible in 2020 who was more challenging, that we are equally responsible and in this 2021, and we will continue until the end of the term no matter what our dear colleagues from the opposition, because they may not even want to understand what we are dealing with, perhaps their best status has been described by a fellow member of the Most, Mr Rasdić when he said that when he saw what problems the government is dealing with, that it is best that they are in opposition and in deep cold, because that is what he said in one week and I remembered it and they are acting like that, they would lead the country from the opposition to care that they have some details to deal with during the day, so to the following details etc. And mostly everything's black, nothing's wrong, they're the best choice, etc. Here, it's almost local elections, so we'll see how anybody goes, mostly you'll see, when they get one councilman, they'll say they won.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35570	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35571	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. I really have to react because my colleague, Boric, made a lie. If you were really reading those weeks, and it was “Globus” and not gossip, then you would see that the same weekbook corrected that title because it was an incorrect quote. So what you're saying isn't true and demeaning and insulting, is the specific untruth of a parliamentary representative who's not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35572	This was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you get a third warning and you take away words until the end of the debate. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35573	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Boric, I'd like to agree with you just from the facts, and here we have often debated here until late night and had several impellations of governments, ministers. There's a vote, 45-50 hands, we can't see it anymore. We've never seen 75 hands, that united opposition, so I agree. And the responsible governance of the state is just saying that people believe us, that they have given us responsibility and that we are responsible for public finances, but also that we are going to the maximum hand and youth, employment measures, that you can get 130,000 kuna to start our own company today, and that this is funded by EU funds. When I was a minister and talked to other colleagues, so here's Minister Alok Sharma of Great Britain told me they don't have such, such a good measure in Britain for young people, to start a job. So it's not all black, it's not all white, but it's also black. We're working on getting answers and better. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35574	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35575	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Pavic, you spoke about how successful and fiscal and monetary policy was, and in reasons where you can see what interest rates were once on the duties that we had previously had, that they were from 5, 6 and 7%, and that now all this is refinanced by 1 or maybe 1.5 to 2% is all proof that trust in the Croatian state in the government and the rating that has been achieved and which has been raised twice in fact reflection precisely on those interest rates because it is the risk price, the risk of capital, and that is what many do not want to recognise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35576	Thank you very much. So that's not only what we claim to be responsible for managing the state, but also what three credit agencies claim, according to the World Bank, claim players on the capital market. The difference, perhaps it sounds a little between 5, 6, 7% interest rate and 1% when it's being transferred to billions of kunas exactly what I said that I was the Minister of Labour who was then surprised that Minister Maric is inhaling on interest more than we give for active employment policy measures, which I said in the previous replica than in many more developed European countries. Therefore, this very responsible approach, the approach to the introduction of EUR, the access to creditors, led European institutions to trust them and that this trust did not reflect on public finances last year and that we could serve everything and still go into tax reform, relieve our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35577	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35578	Thank you. Dear Representative, I ask you, given that you were a minister and you have mentioned it several times, competent amongst other things and for EU funds to explain to us the difference between the planned funds in the EU position funds and the EU funds refunds and the executions that are in 2018 and 2019 in the budget there is a difference that is summed up to a billion and a half kuna. So we planned a billion and a half kuna in those two years to withdraw more funds from the EU than we finally realised. But it's not the only question. The question is where the deficit is seen and reflected in particular, and why the Ministry of Finance did not respect the 2018 revision recommendation and a special report on the use of EU funds with a report on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35579	Dear colleagues Bencic, you know well that the European budget is planned at a seven-year level and you still get n+3, so you can use a year 3 further, which means 10 years, and that the state budget is planned at a one-year level with projections for two more. If some projects have gone slower in some year, they will be compensated later, so far Croatia and this should be explained to the citizens, it has not lost a single eurocent because it has broken rule n+3. None of the indicators were washed away, no Eurocent was lost. When we talk about absorption, so we've already agreed more than the entire envelope, we've paid off half the funds, we're looking at the dynamics of the projects. That's why we deliberately agreed more that if any of the projects were to go slower, we would pay off the other ones. Therefore, there is no fear that we will lose one eurocent from this envelope.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35580	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35581	Thank you. Dear Representative, I would like to ask your opinion with the experience of the Minister, such good results from the 2019 budget as they strengthened our country's position in these negotiations for a new envelope, the EU envelope and those eventually received EUR 24.2 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35582	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35583	Thank you very much, so of course they've strengthened their position. That they also strengthened their position from the creditor's population. It was a pleasure for me here yesterday at the European Parliament's Week to boast that we in this House, in this House, first adopted a decision on our own resources to enable Brussels to be in charge of national recovery programmes and that we could boast that we were the first to adopt it and that we were the leader. This good governance certainly has consequences on favourable and credit ratings and negotiations in Brussels because we are a credible partner. When Croatia, when Prime Minister Plenkovic tells me something in Brussels, it is believed. And this good results and continuity of public policy led to the fact that even when we had a deficit last year, we didn't crash our credit rating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35584	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35585	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so today when we talk about the implementation of the State budget for 2019, I think it's worth remembering what the government did until that year and that year, by the year when we were all affected by the pandemic they would say health and economic crisis that caught and not only the Republic of Croatia but the whole world. In fact, we can see that in 2019 positive developments in economic activities started in 2015. After six years of recession. The real GDP growth was 2.9% we had real growth of gross investment in fixed capital above 7%, exports of goods and services higher by 4.6%, increased and industrial production, positive movements and plus recorded in retail sales, construction activities increased by 8.2%, and what is extremely important to us all who are by the sea where tourism is the main activity that is also 2019. was another record year in a row with an increase in arrival rates of 4.8% and a number of nights of 1.8%. When we look at the implementation of the tourism ministry budget of one of the ministries whose budget is the lowest, but we need to see that over 134 million kuna has been allocated to fostering tourism development, to strengthen the tourism market and human potential in tourism above 7 million kuna, programmes to subsidise credit programmes in tourism over 9.5 million kuna, the competitiveness of the tourism economy over 23 million, over 24.8 million kuna has been allocated for effective human potentials. Furthermore, subsidies to companies, cooperatives, farmers and craftsmen only within the tourism ministry over 14 million kunas, a co-financing programme for investments in continental tourism infrastructure over 4.8 million kunas, the Tourism Fund over 21 million kunas and so on. It can also be seen in detail in terms of the budget for each of these individual items, as compared to the previous year and what are the results. So on every basis, I don't know when we're talking about a co-financing programme for investment in continental tourism infrastructure, you'll see exactly how much we're in 2019. Due to these investments, they had a higher number of arrivals, a higher number of overnight stays, etc. Movements in the labour market also marked employment growth with a continued strong reduction in the unemployed. The number of employees increased by 1.5%. When we talk about subsidies allocated to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, we have almost 30% higher total of 730 million kuna and this maximum amount is allocated precisely to the active labour market policy, to the active employment policy and to support employers for employment, self-employment, completion and preservation of jobs. Around 232.9 million kuna is more isolated than in 2018. only by implementing active employment policy measures for young people. When we look at social care benefits and they are increased, critics would surely say because there are more people who need this help than because there is an increased personal disability and an allowance for help and care. Reduced expenditure on the guaranteed minimum fee precisely to reduce the number of users. The benefits for the unemployed have also been increased, but not because we have a larger number than because the average paid monthly fee has been increased, and the number of users has been reduced and this amount has been recorded by an increase of 42.7 million kuna, but only by an increase in the average minimum fee. These are all figures and there are even more that speak about what and how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia did in the previous period and in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35586	Several replicas, the first respected representative, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev. You listed several projects and decisions of the Government based on the fact that years before and before 2019, and in particular in 2019, we had arranged and arranged finances from surpluses of public debt cuts, GDP growth, etc., etc. I'd like to add two more things to what you've exhibited. The first is that, thanks to such work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and such a relationship with public finances, reduction of interest costs, reduction of expenditure in the state budget, there has been the introduction of a national pension that started this year, and what is also very important and should be pointed out that there is soon a return of taxes on young people to those up to 25 in a 100% tax on income paid for 2019, 2020 and between 25 and 30 half of that amount. That speaks enough about how well the state can run its finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35588	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35589	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. The truth is the national fee for the first time introduced by this government, and it has been in place since 1.1, and what especially joyful women are doing since the largest number of users of national compensation are about to be women. These are persons who could not, for different reasons, have a minimum of 15 years of internship and, thanks to this new right, they will achieve these minimum 800 kuna benefits, which, of course, with an increase in GDP in the coming period, can also be increased. And we have a number of others and indicators that talk about what's been done before. You also mentioned young people, we also had a retaining of the GDP growth rate to about 3% and GDP per capita rose from 61% to 65% of the EU average, etc. We don't have enough time...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35590	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35591	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, Your Honor. You colleagues were the mayor of Vodice, you've been in the assembly for as long as possible, what my experience as minister of regional development was, when I visited local and regional self-government units just for the sake of government tax reform, and then the EU funds that their budgets had grown significantly. How much of this is an example of your Vodice, for example of Sibenik-Knin County, which I am sure you are following, how much tax reforms have contributed to the development of projects in your area, how much they have enabled better standards for citizens, better tourist seasons and exactly what the state should offer to our citizens, and that is to JLS, which is support and partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35592	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35593	Thank you very much, fellow Pavić, so it is difficult to answer all of these questions and topics that you have touched from investments that have been made from European funds, so we have financed from the construction of kindergartens in settlements to 5,000 inhabitants to the protection of cultural heritage to those who say, soft programs that are very important for our pensioners, and you have also touched the amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government units where the share of municipalities or cities increased from 60 to 74% in the last changes, the share of the county from 17 to 20, the decentralised functions remained at 6%, there have been numerous shifts of all these years only once at 6 million kunas the city of Vodice received more than it had in the previous according to the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35594	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35595	I thank the president. So listening to HDZ praise each other, and thus governmental measures, I come to the conclusion that our citizens, like in that movie "Matrix", drank a red pill, so they see reality differently, and unlike HDZ, who all of them drank the blue one. Comrades, you mentioned in your presentation how isolated it is for a personal disability and for an allowance for other people's help and care. Well, that's okay, that's how the state fulfilled its social role. But it wasn't done enough and it wasn't done properly shows that we have citizens at risk of poverty and 1/5 of the population in poverty itself. I also want to say that the frightening information about the number of children who are unable to afford a warm meal in schools. All this points to the fact that all that this government does during this and the previous governments is not enough to make Croatia a prosperous country. And I repeat again, structural reforms are needed from which this government escapes. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35596	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35597	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, we are not beating each other, but we are talking about numbers. The figures say social care benefits were made in 2019 amounting to 2.6 billion kuna, and this has been increased because personal disability and compensation for assistance and care have been increased. When you spoke of the poor, all the measures taken by this government or the previous government contributed that the number of the poor fell by an additional 230,000, the number blocked from 2011 to '16. increased by 135,000, decreased by 91,000, and their previously increased debt by 30 billion kuna decreased by 24 billion kuna. They're facts and they're numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35598	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35599	Thank you very much. My colleague Yurichev, you don't have to explain to Mrs. Devereaux. Oreskovic, she received 0.0025% of all voters in the Republic of Croatia in the elections and is important to herself and we respect that. What I wanted to say in your debate means that what you said and what we are doing as measures and as programs has its results in this 2021. Here I am recently told by the caterers, all those who are on the measures that are even too pleased with the way it goes, that within a few days they get from the reported, means fixed costs, paid communal compensation and everything that goes like giving, I don't know, local self-government, etc. And that it works. They're worried about it, they wish it didn't work. And I used to ask where it all came from, but the stability of our public finances and the work of the ministry clearly works, and it's the most ax to them. They'd want us to be the worst, the politics the worse, the better for them, so someday they'll come to power, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35600	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35601	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric, I am really spoken to by a number of craftsmen and caterers from our area and say that these measures are extremely good, out of the 4,000 kuna they receive + contributions for which they have been released, and now, in recent times, the overhead costs, and even the rents. In November alone, 455 million kunas were settled, supported by 40,000 employers and 152,000 workers, in December 624 million kuna for 48.4 thousand employers and 165,000 workers and so on. The projection is that more than 2 billion kunas will be paid for the student-roller period to support job conservation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35602	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35603	I would like to thank the chair, dear colleagues and colleagues, in fact, just that, I would like to return a little story to what we are now discussing, which is the implementation of the state budget for 2019. Somehow, the focus was lost from that material when we were discussing it, and now it's actually more important that this was too late for us even though we heard the explanation from the finance minister that everything had arrived and sent to the assembly in time, but for justifiable reasons, parliamentary elections and everything else, it's only now that we're having a debate. However, there is no return to focus on what this report is doing, and that is frankly the 2019 record year that will be difficult to repeat and thanks to which we today are inheriting and some positive results and all of this pandemic crisis and earthquake crisis are much better tolerated. Well, that's why I'm going to repeat because of our citizens that it's important to point out that it's in 2019. real GDP growth was 2.9%, industrial production was in 2019. increased by 0.5%, tourism achieved another record season in a row. The average number of unemployed decreased by 21.9% compared to 2018 and the number of employees increased by 1.5%. Public debt is at the end of 2019. It continued to be 73.2% of GDP, but compared to 2015. decreased by 11 percentage points. Personal consumption has been increased due to the growth of available income supported by favourable labour market developments as well as the successful tourist season. Total revenue of the State budget in 2019 A total of €139.9 billion was achieved, which is an annual growth of as much as 8.1%. In particular, it looks forward to helping international organisations and EU bodies to grow by 41% year-on-year, showing significant progress in the use of EU funds. Total expenditure of the State budget in 2019 The increase is 10.3 billion kuna or 7.9% compared to 2018, the increase is largely the result of better absorption of EU funds. Good business was also done by extra budget users, HZZO, Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the total surplus of extra budget users is 2 billion kuna. In line with the revenue achieved and the expenditure incurred by the budget of the consolidated general state, in 2019 the surplus of €640.8 million or 0.2% of the BPD, we heard that it was even a deficit. This surplus would have been even bigger if in 2019 they had not materialised one-time obligations based on the protested guarantees for the Uljanika group and in the amount of 2 billion kuna. Such good budgetary results have not happened by chance, they are the fruit of good and careful work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry of Finance, they are the result of a strategy to facilitate the work of economies, tax reform packages, agreements with social partners and refinance debt on the international financial market. Our citizens are in 2019. felt all the positive trends seen on the indicator of increased personal consumption. And after a record 2019. pandemic 2020. And everywhere in the world, the state budgets have experienced a disturbance. Thanks to the good results in 2019. the budget 2020.g. and, in general, the overall economy of Croatia has suffered much better closure due to epidemiological measures. Good 2019. has also created a prerequisite for the government to save jobs due to the covida-19 pandemic to pay 9 billion kuna directly to employees' accounts and another 4 billion kuna contributions. This measure was used by 500,000 workers and has contributed to the preservation of jobs. Good budget 2019. As well as good government policy, the Republic of Croatia has also contributed to reducing the consequences of the catastrophic earthquakes that hit Zagreb and the Banovina area in 2020. In addition to all the tragedies and difficult situations caused by the earthquakes, I believe it is comforting that from the Government of the Republic of Croatia we have not heard a single statement that there is no money to help the disabled, for the restoration of infrastructure facilities, however catastrophic the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in this budget 2019. has shown responsibility and courage to manage public finances well and quality. And that is why I am convinced that our government will see to it that 2020 and 2021. They're on a good level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35604	Here we have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35605	Thank you very much. I agree with you that we should deal with this report for 2019 because it has information that is very interesting. For example. The data relating to material costs that have increased almost 12% in absolute amount is 1.6 billion kuna, and the largest share refers to expenditures of hospital health institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia at 712.9 million kuna, which tells us that the problems in our health care are not since yesterday, they accumulate. Unfortunately, they didn't get rid of themselves in years that were good, and when it could have been a lot more painlessly solved, and now we're where we are, we're having an epidemic, we're having a coronary crisis, we have 12 billion kunas of loss and problems in the health system, and if we had solved it in these good years, we wouldn't have found ourselves where we are right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35606	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35607	As you said yesterday, health problems exist for a long, long period of years, but what we saw was that the government of the Republic of Croatia did it to help its health as much as it could. After all, our citizens, at no time in the Republic of Germany during the duration of this pandemic, did not have to ask for other countries' assistance as requested by the Czech Republic at present, and I believe that this is exactly the good and healthy management in public finances in the term of the government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, which led us to this pandemic crown crisis, at least in terms of health conditions, and I think that we have brought it much better than many EU countries that have not had so many problems in health care as we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35608	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35609	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Brkan, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well you just said that maybe this report comes a little late, but it's good to put it in context, put it in the context of responsibility and years before that they led to such good results in 2019, just like everything happened last year. You are the mayor of Makarska, mine are from Imotski, joining us tunnel we know that and that is a large part of the government's progress, can you describe on your example the city of Makarska in which government reforms specifically related to local and regional self-government units have led you to have more resources for your projects? How much European funds have meant to you for development and services and everything you provide to the citizens of Makarska?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35610	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35611	I thank you, Your Honor. In short, 2017, when I got the citizens' trust to run our city on account I had 480,000 kuna unpaid salaries for workers, employees of the city administration and millions of outstanding bills and court disputes. Smart public finances management of both the city and state, and thanks primarily to government measures that have strengthened the budgets of local self-government units, we have brought Makarska today that we are stable, liquid, all of our obligations are closed and we can freely say that all the development projects we have agreed and started have enough resources to pay. One of the great things is the government's decision. The Ministry of Construction that a municipal contribution can be spent in the pandemic year as a general expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35612	Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Brkan. I'm asking you more in the form of a commentary, we've heard about 2019. Smart financial management, state, so what do you think is like 2019? managed there years before that period in '13, '14, '15 that at that rate, we had started to use EU funds much earlier, which would also have affected our situation now in this recent crown crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35614	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35615	I thank you for asking. Look at the crown of the pandemic crisis that happened to everyone, if we were more prepared than we are right now, we'd probably have more resources at our disposal. But that's the fact that since it started, we've been talking three years before 2019. that it has already started with positive trends, that it has already been preparing for any stress of our country to be more resilient and we are more resilient, that is definitely because compared to the 2008 and 2009 crisis. When we were down, and now I think we're in a much better position. The government has helped a large number of citizens with their active measures, and I also believe that this crisis will last even shorter than it has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35616	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Siniša Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35617	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs, State Secretary. So here's today's talk about budgeting for 2019. and I am really sorry to hear about this report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019. We don't talk before, here's the reason they're listed here especially by the minister, so here's the opposition if there's any objection that can certainly be discussed at Parliament's presidency. But like I said, the results are great and we need to talk about them. So we're talking about 2019, not 2020. Total revenue in 2019 They amounted to 139 billion kuna, and most importantly, we had to say for the second time the surplus of the state budget of 49.5 million kuna which we didn't have backwards seems 25 years, it's very important to emphasize. What's even more important to stress is definitely, and these are receipts from financial assets, excess contributions from over 5 billion kunas. So a surplus in borrowing that definitely improved the state of our budget. What should be pointed out here, and some colleagues said, the difference in the implementation of the budget i.e. in the revenue of the budget compared to 2018. It was an increase of 10.5 billion kuna, which is a very significant increase if we look at 2018. so we're looking at 2019. Some colleagues have talked about the composition of that income, I must stress that about 82 billion kuna means over 59% of the income from taxes, meaning income from taxes. Some colleagues said that we only survived thanks to European funds, which here figures say that it is not true because if we look at the revenues from European funds then they are 14 billion and 800,000 kuna, which means that the original revenues are tax revenues, the basic revenues of the 2019 budget. When we further factor out the structure of these revenues, some colleagues said it was a full tax press, then we see that out of these 82 billion kunas, 66% of these walks are. 54 billion kuna is a value added tax i.e. VAT, so it's not about taxing on labour, etc., it's about the opposite of 2019. We had significant discharges, and we continued in 2020. tax presses are exactly on labour tax, which means that this government is very socially sensitive. When we look in the direction of income, I will return to the beginning of the surplus of the state budget. Thinking about the surplus of the state budget then he certainly contributed, and what we're talking about is the receipts of a financial asset where we've borrowed cheaper, but not only as a state, because regardless of which we're all a country, means every single individual, every business entity of the local self-government means all of this goes into debt, but ten years ago we're in debt of 10%, today we're in debt by interest of 1.5 to 2%, so it's a big, big debt difference. It's definitely also visible in this budget, so from that surplus of 5 billion kuna in debt, and yet in disbursement of the borrowing of our citizens. As Head of Local Self-Government they spoke and colleagues here it is important to highlight this financial decentralisation that has contributed to stabilising the budget at local level, where the stabilisation of the budget at local level again directly affects the increase in activity from that construction to the easier withdrawal of European funds, so it is worth supporting this budget and, as I said at the outset, I am sorry that it has not been talked about before. Because the results are great. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35618	We have one replica, the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35619	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. So how do you interpret the European Commission's view that the growth of GDP in Croatia will be 5.3%, and then 4.6 if we don't have enough good foundations, would we be judged just like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35620	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35621	Anyway, you wouldn't. My experience in several visits to Brussels is that they know better what state we are in than we may know, and we, very well, monitor the financial indicators of income, the expenditures of each Member State. Credit agencies do not give any favourable credit ratings by giving all credit rating agencies and thus the EU gives a favourable credit rating to the Republic of Croatia and that is the wind in the back, and that is what definitely gives us hope that from this crisis that hit us in 2020, and that is not the case for any EU member state, and that is not only the coronary crisis but also earthquakes, that we will find out from it and that we will continue to be stable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35622	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35623	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit that tonight I felt like at the theater when some colleagues and colleagues had their performances here, but while I was reading materials related to this point of today's agenda, I felt the same way, and I believe as most of us that it was a different dimension, that it wasn't a situation that was here 15 months ago because the financial and economic indicators told us at that time that we had reasons for optimism, we were looking forward to the period ahead because we were convinced that we could be better in all areas of our daily life. All pointed to this real GDP growth, growth in retail trade, record tourist season, employment growth, growth in construction activity is largely encouraged by the eu project. In February or March, the whole world actually came across a pandemic and a situation we never knew before, but we never expected. Why are we talking about the pandemic and the coronary crisis again? Because after studying this report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019, It is certain that the coronary crisis would be much harder to endure and more economically difficult to feel that since 2016-2019. We did not have positive movements in economic activity and GDP growth. We certainly couldn't bear and bring all these active measures and support to preserve the jobs we're talking about, we'd probably also have various black scenarios that would lead to great unemployment, a huge economic downturn and the question of what would happen to the new financial envelope that we have available this year. I'm also wondering about the credit rating because we just got an increase in the credit rating from 2019. This report certainly shows a responsible attitude towards public finances. A series of tax reforms from 2019 since VAT reform, profit tax, income tax where personal deductions and reduced tax liability have been increased for young people with tax reforms in the past years that have actually started in 2020. They should have felt in a positive sense just this year 2021. I said I should, but I'm not going back to the crown now, so I'm going to focus on the report and, of course, as mayor, I have to mention here the help of local and regional self-government for what's in 2019. 82.1 million kuna is set aside and these are funds that greatly facilitate the business of counties, cities and municipalities. There has never been a rise in the budget of local self-government units, and on the other hand, income tax rates are reduced or personal deductions are raised. I claim that all these items that I have listed are with a number of others, which refer to 2019. to contribute significantly to this, i.e. last 2020 and this 2021. It passes with smaller scars, but to rise faster after this covid-19 time and to recover economically faster. I also agree here with some of the speakers that EU membership will help us in this, but also a responsible relationship with public finances that is visible from this report. One thing I want to draw attention to is state property. Revenue from the sale of non-financial assets in 2019 They amounted to 1.1 billion kuna, which is 77.1% year-on-year increase. The practice of selling state property that was out of use is certainly a good way to go because it is not only a source of income but also a way to revitalise abandoned property. It is necessary to support the sale of inactive state-owned assets, as well as the lease, rental and other forms of inactive state-owned assets. In this act we have direct income, but also indirect through employment, through tourism and other activities on a local scale. I don't have much time left to touch the expenditure, but I will highlight some of the data from the report that they say, the expenditures for employees financed from EU funds amounting to 369.1 million kuna, the material expenditure from EU funds 801.5 million kuna, expenditure on EU grants of 3.7 billion kuna, etc., I would like to say that our EU membership benefits are visible. We have in 2019. from these materials around 14.06 billion kunas paid out of the EU budget while around 3.8 billion kuna is paid into the EU budget. I just want to say that I hope that we will soon have a chance to discuss this report on the implementation of the state budget as it was in 2019, and the estimates say at the end of 2022 or early '23.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35624	Time. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ankica Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35625	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Blažević. By listening to your discussion and presentation, and knowing that you are the executive head of the City of Pakrac, I am interested in these tax reforms that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made possible how much they have affected your city budget, and what would that mean to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35626	I don't think this minute is enough to describe the state of the city budget there until 2016. how much was the deficit about 4 million, but in 2017 we managed to pay back all these debts, live to keep the budget positive. I'm just going to tell you that our original budget until then until these fiscal balances to this new law on the financing of units of local administrations and self-government was somewhere around 11 million kuna, and after that reform it grew to 19 million kuna. So we managed to do what counterpart Brkan was saying, follow, pay suppliers, follow all the projects that were supposed to be co-financed by eu funds without any concern that might lead us to some financial difficult position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35627	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35628	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about the implementation of the 2019 budget, but as the introduction would say one thing, so what we are conditioned to withdraw European funds for the next period at EU level is respect for the principle of rule of law. I will briefly read it about the principles which, among other things, have been established by the European Court of Justice or by the Court of Justice of the EU, so that is the legality which implies a transparent, responsible and democratic pluralist process of law making, legal certainty, etc., but also means that all public authorities always act within the limits established by law in accordance with the values of democracy, etc. The Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Croatia says "The Minister of Finance, or the Administrative Authority for Finance, is producing an annual report, and by 1 May of the current year for the previous year must deliver it to the Government," I have no doubt, absolutely no doubt that the Ministry of Finance did so. The following paragraph reads "The Government, or the Mayor, Mayor and Mayor, shall submit to the Assembly or representative body an annual report on the implementation of the budget by 1 June of the current year for the previous year". In the papers and in the materials that we have obtained here, I see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent this material to the president of HS on 29 October 2020. Of course someone's alibi can be an election, and I can see there's no alibi. Why would an alibi be there? The mandate lasts one finance minister, one government until the new government's trust in new legislation is passed. What's the problem? The problem is, of course, if we have a prime minister who instead of doing what needs to be done walking around in Croatia and says that the pandemic was defeated a year ago, so it's almost a year ago. Well, then we have a problem. And don't get me wrong, I'm here to exculpate Mr. Maric's finance minister, he's not responsible for it. He must have done his homework. And now I'm going to look back on saving the shipbuilding. You must know that I am in possession of a contract that is "3. May" sold to "Olienika", that I purposely say to warn of a thing, for the issue of spending, on the restructuring of shipbuilding of Croatia's shipbuilding Jadranbrod, it is precisely necessary to report to the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy on the spending of funds, I know until when it was done and when it was read and when, and after that, since those reports have been ignored and thrown into the basket. And this guarantee and this rescue of shipbuilding to excuse is the rescue of something the previous HDZ government has done most wrong. There is no heroism here on the rescue of shipbuilding, but someone has turned a blind eye on the theft that has taken place and about which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance have been reported regularly and do not ask me for copies of the reports. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35629	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35630	Your Honor. You quoted the law well, but you didn't tell all the facts. It means how much memory I serve, and it can be checked in professional services, the implementation of the budget the Government of the Republic of Croatia brought in in time, in time to HS, with HS disbanded on 18th May, allow, and normally when the government was re-formed then the new government had to re-deliver the same document to HS. But that document, if memory serves me well, was committed in time and was not discussed in view of the disbanding of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35631	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35632	I don't go into free interpretations of the law. The law is one, if there is this reference, it remains because it is addressed to the Parliament. The other thing is when he's going to argue, but it's not going to be sent back. Why would it go twice? There's no need to send twice. But I would take advantage of the opportunity related to this replica for what reason, so that at least on the website of the Ministry of Finance in the consolidated text, to move the word headship, because on the web pages of the Budget Act, it still says "Government or Headship is submitted to the Parliament" etc. So let's at least fix that part if we can't fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35633	Following the final debate, the first team of HDZ MPs is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35634	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague. I would like to point out once again that this period since 2016-2019 has been very much achieved by a number of positive indicators and surplus budgets, the whole financial situation and the budget has been consolidated, and how personal spending will be improved, tax reforms have been allowed to raise the remaining capacity of personal consumption, to raise the standard, and also to act through the Income Tax Act, through demand write-off, through non-taxable deduction, support and taxes for young people, as well as through the Income Tax Regulation, certain measures have been taken to increase non-taxable support for both newborns and other rights. It was also acted in the VAT Act where the extended value added tax coverage of 13% in the catering sector also increased the threshold for the application of the taxation procedure according to the fees charged to 7.5 million kuna and all this was the period where and in profit tax the rate was reduced from 20 to 18 and 12% respectively. In this period, we can say that GDP per capita has increased by 2,100 euros by 2020, which proves that the standard has been taken into account. What I said earlier, public debt in our country was 73.2% at the end of 2019, but EU countries had much greater public debt starting from Belgium to Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain. What I would like to point out once again is that precisely the European Commission, which estimates us regardless of this crisis and pandemic and the earthquake that occurred in Croatia, estimates that our growth rate in 2021 will be 5.3 and 4.6% in 2022, respectively. which gives us some encouragement because it is actually the third rate, we are the third country to grow GDP in the EU. They're ahead of us according to their assessment of Spain and France. Therefore, when we talk about it and here there has been criticism about how there are no more documents from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for recovery and resilience, then I can say that colleagues are now working hard on this document which now has more than 700 pages and is trying and looking for all possible solutions to include all the models. Our right to this mechanism is over 9 billion euros, of which about 6 billion is non-refundable, and the rest are favourable loans. It is very important to agree well on this document which will come here and which we are obliged to deliver as Government by 30.4. to the European Commission and I believe that it will be done in quality and well that we will have the opportunity to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35635	The next final debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35636	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This report is related to the implementation of the 2019 budget and we can say that it all looked much better in 2019, but unfortunately all of this went red and fat and I'm just going to say that the decline in the amount of fiscalised accounts was 26.7 billion kuna or 13.6%. So now the state secrets are so easy to account for, right, I can see through his eyes, so the fact is, we're where we are. And I'm not going to be dealing with some kind of catastrophic statement or prediction right now is not my intention, but the fact is that we didn't use those good years for reforms, that's a fact, and they were ideal. The macroeconomic opportunities were indeed not only with us but in the whole environment very good and of all that was good then were only left and low interest rates because the capital market was what it was and until when it would last we will see it. It won't last forever either, let's face it. So I'll remind you, we can't do this homework, public administration reform, justice reform, health reform, education reform is just part of this reform story, it's a homework that we have to do. We should've done it because it was good, and I think we're gonna have to do it in a slightly worse time because the state is too expensive. Investors bypass us, there was mentioned our credit rating, yes, our credit rating is still not investment in the highest category, but not investment. So investors are bypassing us in a wide port. The Corona crisis, of course, has exposed problems like any crisis exposes all of our structural problems and these are all problems that will not be solved on their own. Sooner or later, we have to start working on it. The subsidies were there talk of subsidies, I'll look back at those given to agriculture 4 billion kuna, that's not a little bit, but there's no positive shifts, there's no proper management to finally achieve self-sufficiency, and we've seen how important the role of agriculture is and how important it is to be self-sufficient, and we're not, we're just in some basic war cultures. It is also a fact that in these documents that we have already had, and related to the three-year period, to projections for this three-year period, there is no aspect of these reforms that we are constantly talking about and that is not good. For the next three years, we have at our disposal significant funds from the Recovery and Resistance Plan and should focus them on projects with the greatest reform potential and contribute to GDP growth. If these funds are completed again, and there is a sign that they will be in public sector projects, then they will further strengthen the role of the state in an economy that is still too large. So a number of corruption affairs point to the continuing extent that this is harmful not only to the economy but also to society as a whole and thus to the designed investment plans could further worsen such a non-competitive economic structure of the country and reflect negatively on long-term fiscal sustainability. All the time, stability is promoted as some kind of success, and maintaining the existing situation through this syntagma of stability is a stay at the start of the EU according to all relevant parameters. We don't need immediate stability, no matter how risky it sounds, we need to start reforming because without it there are no positive shifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35637	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break by 21.20 and move on to the next point. It's 9:12 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.19 HOURS]] The State Audit Office Act. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Deputy Chief State Auditor, Honorable Nedjka Rogosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35640	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs good evening to you. The State Audit Office carried out a revision of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2019 and submitted the report on the audit carried out to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the deadlines set by the Law on the State Office for Audit and in June 2020 respectively. The content of the annual report on the implementation of the state budget is set out in the Budget Act and the Regulation on the half-yearly and annual budget reporting. The audit of the annual reports on the implementation of the State budget was carried out in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions and also in accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office with a view to expressing its opinion on whether the data in the annual financial report were accurate and realistic and whether annual financial reports or annual financial reports and its constituents were drawn up in accordance with the rules governing the annual reporting. For the purpose of issuing an audit opinion, the State Audit Office or auditors have checked the area of planning, the accounting of the state budget reporting, the achievement of revenue and the execution of expenditure in relation to planned, then the borrowing, the issuing of guarantees and the granting of appropriations from the budget stock. If we want to analyse the findings that the state auditor found during this audit, we can group them into three groups. One group refers to the findings or irregularities related to the presentation of the data in the annual financial report. The second group would refer to the need for improvement and better regulation of a particular area in the Budget Law and other implementing rules. The third group of findings also referred to the implementation of the recommendations and findings made in previous audits. Irregularities affecting the opinion on the annual financial report can be said to have been applied in the way data is recorded and presented in the annual financial report. It was therefore one of the irregularities that the transfers of funds between the budgetary users of the state budget are not a rule shown on the planned accounts of the accounting plan, which affected the correctness of the shown income and expenditure structure. Which means that there are no changes in total revenues and expenditures, but if we look at the structure within individual incomes or expenditures, we will see that these irregularities are reflected in the structure. Thus, revenues and transmission expenditures which should normally be equal to those shown are higher than 24 million compared to revenues. Also in the context of staff expenditures, expenditures amounting to HRK 7.8 billion relating to salaries and other expenditure on primary and secondary school employees have been shown. Since primary and secondary schools are mostly budgetary beneficiaries of the budget of units of local and regional self-government, these expenditures should have been mostly shown in the context of expenditure to assist budgetary users of other budgets. In addition, irregularities related to the granting of support to employers amounting to €30.51 million were identified, as prescribed by the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. In particular, those support is not reflected in the expenditure but rather as a reduction of income from pension insurance contributions because the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2019 has not been regulated in a proper and transparent manner. This irregularity was also identified in 2018 and the irregularity related to the granting of support and the recording of salaries for primary and secondary school staff. However, they could not be removed during 2019 because at the time when the state audit gave these orders and recommendations, the 2019 budget was already implemented. However, this irregularity has been removed in the adoption of the 2020 budget and we can believe that these two recommendations have been implemented. Furthermore, it was found that the revenues from consular services were not fully shown since they were shown in the amount of expenditure incurred, so that they were shown less than 20.6 million kuna in relation to the actual costs actually incurred. In addition, irregularities have been identified in relation to the realised exchange rate differences and these differences have also been identified in terms of differences arising from contractual relations, resulting from public debt transactions, are not consistently recorded in the accounts or shown in financial reports. Since some exchange rate differences are recorded as revenue or as expenditure, some are shown as receipts or expenditures depending on whether positive or negative differences have been shown. However, if we look at what he has prescribed, as regulated by the Budgetary Accounting Regulation, the realised exchange rate difference should be recorded either in income accounts or in expenditure accounts, rather than in expenditure or in receipt accounts. This method of recording also affected the total, total revenues and receipts, as well as total expenditure and expenditure. For all irregularities and failures identified, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations to which implementation would contribute to increasing transparency in the use of budgetary resources. Moreover, the State Audit Office has seen certain facts regarding the transfer of funds from the State Treasury to the giro accounts of budgetary users in business banks. This applies to budgetary users who do not have the status of the State Treasury, the State Treasury, and the funds are transferred to them in a way that the competent divisions under the financial plan grant these funds to budgetary users, rather than on the basis of real needs. As a result, the implementation of the financial plans of these budgetary users does not really correspond to the funds spent because the funds were not spent but remained in their gyro account. In addition to that State Audit Office, it noted that certain provisions of the rules on budgetary accounting are not sufficiently clear or insufficient, which is why budget users are not able to draw up financial reports, but are also acting differently when recording business events. For example, as a result of unclear regulations, certain budgetary users, when write-offs, account for expenditures, and when write-offs, show revenue while others reduce or increase their own sources by the amount of written-off claims or commitments. Moreover, the budgetary regulations set out what constitutes the cost of the acquisition of non-financial assets, but it is not clear that the value of the financial assets is clearly determined. In the first part, we refer to the recording of shares and shares owned by companies so that certain budget users record such financial assets according to the purchase or acquisition cost while others point to nominal value. Furthermore, given that it is not explicitly prescribed that foreign currency cash and foreign currency claims and liabilities contracted in foreign currency recorded in kuna books at the end of the year are mandatory to comply with the applicable central exchange rate of the CNB, certain budgetary users do not implement that harmonisation and individual implementations. However, those who carry out this coordination act differently. Some budget users shall record their exchange rate differences as revenue or expenditure, and some shall also be recorded through a source of ownership. It is also noted that the implementation of an annual list of assets and liabilities is listed by some budgetary users, while others do not list the assets and liabilities that have been reported in the off-balance sheet, as this is not clearly regulated by the implementing rules. It is also proposed to the Ministry of Finance as a competent ministry to regulate those areas normably, which would contribute to increasing the accuracy and transparency of the data presented both in the financial reports of budgetary users and in the annual budget implementation report. In the context of the revision, I also said that, whether or not they have been followed, all of those tasks and recommendations given in previous audits have been checked. The audit also found that 54.7% of the recommendations and orders given were followed, partially followed by 7.8%, and 37.5% of the tasks given and recommended are in the process of execution. The largest number of tasks and recommendations were carried out, and the implementation of certain recommendations included the adoption or amendment of certain acts and regulations so that some of the tasks and recommendations that we stated were essentially incorporated in the implementation process in the new draft Budget Act, and since the procedure for the adoption of the Budget Act did not take place within the planned deadlines these tasks and recommendations were incorporated as such in those acts, but it is not since the law has not yet been adopted we cannot say that these recommendations have been implemented. Also, some of the tasks and recommendations carried out are well pointed out that information is included, in order to include information on tax expenditures in the proposal for a state budget. Data should then be included in the general part of the state budget on total planned expenditure and allocated expenditure allocated to funding sources and the functional classification. It is also necessary to regulate the powers of the Head of Budgetary users to make available to non-financial assets of budgetary users in a regulatory manner and to regulate and prescribe activities relating to the establishment, adoption and publication of the financial plans of the budget beneficiaries of the state budget, as well as the budgetary users of the budget of the local unit. Moreover, what is more important here points out that the State Audit Office, during the 2018 audit, has given the report, the order to install one of the prescribed elements in the annual report on the implementation of the state budget and the report on the use of EU funds for which the content and methodology of the assembly should be prescribed. This implementation is in practice, this recommendation is in the implementation process and will probably be incorporated into the Budget Law as well as the Regulation on the half-yearly and annual reporting of the state budget. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35641	Thank you very much. Here, wait a minute. We have a few replicas for your debate. He's the first representative of Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35642	You have brought forth a series of irregularities that have been established here, but we have debated here at this previous point, and we are here now to warn what is actually going on with the implementation of the budget or what is being spent on Croatian citizens' money. And so we want here once again, the word was taken from us at this previous point, to warn that the Croatian taxpayers' money, Croatian citizens are being spent irrationally, untransparently, and that this is the credit of the gentleman behind you of the Croatian Vice-President Ante Sanader and the team who both in Split-Dalmatia County and in all other counties therefore falsely promises to Croatian citizens certain projects, draws money through the burdens and now terrorises these measures where we have double criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35643	You don't have to answer because this wasn't this replica, this was a free speech. Miro Bulj next replica, you have the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35644	Thank you very much. Here we also saw this that in the implementation of the budget in 2019 we have a series of irregularities as you counted from that for schools, for primary and secondary school staff, you basically said in the state budget, you said 7.8 billion kuna instead of doing this at the donation level according to whether budget donations to the counties mean they don't even work in the county and not those who should do their job. However, the fact is that in the state budget we have a series of respected, a series of irregularities such as The release I don't know is you noticed that, the reduction of concessions by a billion kuna. You have established the legality of this, a billion kuna to teleoperators is a reduced concession, so can you tell if there may be any irregularity there because Croatian citizens are damaged for a billion kuna while these rich people are forgiven by a billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35645	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35646	Thank you very much for asking. In the framework of the report on the implementation of the annual state budget, we have not identified any irregularities related to the statement of revenue from concessions. It is possible that, through the revision of a particular ministry, the responsibility of which is also to worry about the collection of concessions that we are required to verify in each audit, that if there are any irregularities, we will be able to see it through the audit of a particular ministry or any other budgetary user or budgetary user at local level, if there are concessions that partially generate revenues from units of local or regional, regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35647	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35648	Good afternoon, so we've seen here a lot of recommendations that apply to some of the normative arrangements, additions to the regulations, instructions, even the adoption of methodologies of the law. Since this report was drawn up in the 6th month of last year, do you know if the ministry has already acted on some of these recommendations so far, has it already complied with some of its regulations and these normative documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35649	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35650	If you look at the last part of the report you will see that we have given one review table where at the time we completed the review with each recommendation each day we verified at which stage. The revision is now under way for 2020, all these tasks and recommendations will be re-implemented and already sometime in the 6th month, by the middle of the 6th month the report on the audit will be delivered to the Croatian Parliament where we will be able to confirm whether these, these orders and recommendations have been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35651	The next replica, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35652	Thank you. Here we have heard from the opening statement that some of the recommendations and the warrant were actually implemented in the 2020 budget, but also for this 2021, so I would like to ask you in such a general way a review, your opinion in fact answers the Ministry of Finance's recommendations and orders with a view a few years back, as much as you may be personally satisfied with the Ministry of Finance's reaction, how poor they are in meeting the recommendations, the findings, is there actually a shift over the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35653	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35654	I am a year's deputy chief state auditor, and I have previously dealt with some other area related to the audit, but by following our audit on the implementation of the annual state budget, we see that there has been a major shift. Namely, our colleagues are teams that know the problem of the state budget very well, and when they give some order and recommendations to the Ministry of Finance we have very good cooperation and every recommendation is well analysed and formulated whether it is implemented or not. So we can see that all our orders and recommendations from the Ministry of Finance have been accepted. They immediately took measures if there was to be a guideline or to supplement the rule as simple as possible, but when it comes to law-making, it takes a little longer. But we certainly don't have any support. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35655	The next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35656	Well, I think it's also when conditional opinion is given to, for example, local self-government units that it's a problematic political issue for every position, every authority in local self-government units, and I think the big problem is when the government gets a conditional opinion from the State Audit and that's for budget implementation. I think that's how I express myself to the Ministry of Finance. And now you're saying that there's been great progress, that's what you've replicated to a fellow MP, but I'm still looking at here, for example, your 2018 recommendations, which are still a good part of them in the implementation process. Now, I don't know if anything has changed since this report was left, but I can see there's even a good part of the recommendations that have been implemented or only partially implemented, so I'm also wondering how this is possible and what is the state of these recommendations since 2018, since it's been almost a year since you put together the report?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35657	As I said before, we can look at when the deadlines for carrying out certain tasks and recommendations were. Namely, when the revision is completed, we propose a plan for the implementation of the order and recommend it to the Ministry and to each subject of the audit, which determines some reasonable date in which that order or recommendation will be implemented. They also submit this proposal to us and we, or the audit team, assess whether this time is appropriate for the implementation of that recommendation. And we have some recommendations that have passed the deadline, but some activities have been undertaken, not until the end, on the other hand we have these recommendations that should have been implemented in a way that changes the Budget Law. It just hasn't been implemented yet because the law hasn't been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35658	Thank you very much. There's a debate coming up on behalf of the clubs. It is the first club of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We listened to some praises from the Ministry of Finance before this item of the agenda, and now we see that the State Audit gave a conditional opinion on the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. 'Cause there's an irregularity, so it's kind of weird now, isn't it, in some way? As it's all great, everything's great, everything's wonderful, and yet the auditors say it's not exactly like that, there's an irregularity. We have heard a lot in detail what irregularities they are, I will not repeat them, and in principle I would refer to some information and some indices related to the transparency of the budget and it is not disputed that Croatia is among those countries that are making progress in the amount of information and the quality of publicly available information relating to the state budget. It stands and we are all aware that when the state budget and anything related to government budget reports is on the agenda, then we have this one thick bundle of paper that is tied up, which are printed because this is the state budget that can't do so much less. The budget openness index 2019 was 68 for Croatia, which is a significant shift, 11 points more than in 2017, and here we took 21st place on the world scale and we are in a group of countries that publish a significant amount of budgetary information. I'd say we stand well when we're on the 21st scale, that's not too bad. But to see what this index measures, it tells us to what extent the public can access up-to-date, comprehensible and sufficiently comprehensive information on the budget through the web pages, and it goes on a scale of 0 to 100, based on no less than 109 issues that assess availability, exhaustion and timely publication of eight key budget documents, which are the guidelines of the economic and fiscal policies of the draft budget, adopted budget, budget guide for citizens, monthly reports, half-yearly budget reports, annual budget reports and the report on the audit carried out here now. What is extremely important and what everyone emphasises is that public involvement in the budgetary process is crucial, extremely important and that is the one element that actually helps to raise the level of transparency. So when we discuss the State Audit report at 21.47, it doesn't really help us to get our public involved in something that's connected to the state budget because I doubt this is over-tracked on one of the platforms. What concerns the whole story is the role of the Parliament and how the Parliament is assessed because that index has shown that the institutions that oversee the budget or control by the Parliament are relatively limited and there we have won only 47 points and it cannot be good because it is precisely the Croatian Parliament that adopts the state budget, and we are the worst rated there is. So perhaps we should do something about it and to strengthen the role of the assembly, it is proposed that MPs get a proposal for a budget of at least 2 months before the start of the financial year, and also for this speaker there have been a lot of objections every time there is something about the budget that these materials should be more transparent and has a lot of objections about the format, form, whether it has to be scanned pdf which defacto picture or it can be in some other form, I leave it to the Ministry of Finance, but in order to help transparency and some possibilities of comparison to us MPs I believe would. What do public finances experts suggest? It means to include in the draft budget information on tax expenditure with an explanation of the basic objectives of each individual tax expenditure, the target group to which the estimated amount of lost tax revenue relates. It's a good recommendation that for 2020 would be very useful means everything is good when we're growing GDP, when incomes are growing mainly tax revenues, but what if it's not so, and we see that there are such years. Here's the last one, and I'm afraid it's going to be this one because it didn't go very well. Also include detailed information in the draft budget on the financial assets of the State, means the list of assets and value assessment and the non-financial assets of the State the list of assets by category. It would also not be bad because we see through all these reports that Croatia's revenues from their assets are not quite as significant as they are, and they are not that big, although the state owns quite a lot of property. And the last is to improve some content, the comprehensiveness of budget guides so that citizens can actually see what they are interested in, to make it more transparent and to make it easier for them to manage. The audit has given some, the state review has made certain recommendations as some colleagues have already noticed, it is quite transparent in this table view and I commend you this way it is really transparent, but a little confused by the fact that certain recommendations are already being made several times and are constantly being repeated and what has drawn attention to me this way is one of the recommendations that you pointed out in this report, which refers to borrowing and other entities, which affect the level of public debt, and that also in the public debt management strategy should cover and review the meaning of borrowing of these other entities that affect the level of public debt other than the Ministry of Finance, because it is not the Ministry of Finance only you know there, some things can be stolen and can come to a slightly distorted picture I would say this way I would use that word. Also, I am pleased that we will soon receive a new report because the fact is that certain recommendations and certain measures are repeated year by year and it would be interesting to hear and interesting why this has not been implemented and in some timetable when implementation is expected because suggestions are good. So all the state audit proposes is well, I personally didn't find any objections, I'm not an accountant, I've worked for a while in accounting, I know it means but well this is a state budget, this is something else, it's something else entirely, but all the measures and recommendations the state audit has given I think they're in place, but they're repeating and it would be good to hear from the Ministry of Finance what's going on here, which is working on that plan. Well, that's what I'd say, I'm glad there's a secretary of state here, so maybe he could give us a few words on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35660	Thank you. The next debate is Mira Bulja on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35661	Thank you very much. I welcome the representatives of the state audit, colleagues and colleagues to implement the 2019 budget we had at the previous point, however, the audit said quite differently from what the minister presented to us here. So there's a series of irregularities, so it means there's a budget for 2019 in execution, but I'd like to say that in one, if we got the information, it's probably about the extra budget. Users such as Croatian Waters, their projects, such as Croatian Roads, such as the meaning of Croatian Forests and many of those which are extra- budget expenditure which are part of the budget. When we are making a budget, we have certain projects, investments, certain resources in the budget that are in that part, so in this part, mainly as regards projects of importance for the Republic of Croatia, it would be good to see, in fact, that once in the reports, we will see all these irregularities that are happening, but we need to know that there are a number of irregularities in the public, especially when we are talking about projects of Croatian Waters that have become unfortunately the purpose of themselves. Croatian roads, Croatian highways that are huge and losers and essentially citizens of the Republic of Croatia and taxpayers do not show much satisfaction, and the results are not very visible either. Of course, all irregularities and conditional opinions are contrary to the ministry's position, however, to the fact that when we talk about state audits, the revision often here in this not only of budget execution but generally state audit when it reports to us parliamentary representatives in a series of irregularities in which she has spoken, in which they speak and even where there have been major irregularities, the State's Attorney's Office has been informed, so it should be informed, however, I do not know exactly how much the activities of the State's Attorney's Office have been in this regard. As far as support and incentives are concerned, it is one question that should always be asked, it is probably dragged through books or state budgets in the way that should be drawn, but we as parliamentary deputies always have to ask ourselves whether that money when we see that support and incentives are important, I do not say mainly in certain branches that are important, and these are agriculture and economy, and in particular agriculture, the fact that we do not have results. If we were to continue importing too many food products to the Republic of Croatia, we would, in particular, have food products so that we would have a tribal to see what the bad results are about, and we are never giving more support or incentives. So it would be worth seeing if they get the incentives of those who should, the tribals get this one. I have no problem in co-financed our examples of farmers to the food industry as the problem is now we see the Slavonia project that brought about sugars and it was announced to me that for the Dalmatian Zagora and Lika and Gorski Kotar, so I would ask that this project like Slavonia project, which was announced by the prime minister and we see that it has all put out what the tribune to put out not only industry but also our farmers who are doing the production itself. So these support and incentives in agriculture would be essentially those that should produce results. And it's visible so I have it here, the distinguished representative of the state audit said that these support and incentives don't give any results, as far as your work is concerned, I know that you can't see too much of what's been done through the books and what should be done in accordance with the State Budget Act, but this and what comes from the law as your obligation and what you have to say, you've listed a lot of irregularities. But these support and incentives are very important because we are not a state that is not self-sufficient, which is a huge problem, we were in a crown crisis and I believe that these budget items, mainly in terms of support, should be this one in line with the real situation on the ground. This is the key that we are talking about and this part of the budget users where I don't see the results mainly on a number of projects that are being announced. Whether it is registered, it is not registered or we see that as regards secondary and basic education, 7.8 billion kunas are paid to employees to register for education in the state budget, which should essentially be decentralised funds, donations, decentralised funds according to regional and local self-government. according to the founders of these educational or school institutions. So we've got a number of mistakes and shortcomings and double running obviously, or double or being mistreated. Now the question is what happens in the founders of these school educational institutions. So probably also in health care, I haven't heard.../incomprehensible/... and we have health care determined according to the regional self-government, so according to the counties, decentralised funds as a donation of course to health care. So there are too many irregularities in the budget in yours, and it's completely different to me, it's completely different in essence. It will be easier than I can say than what Minister Maric said when budgeting. Here he boasted about the transparency of the budget, where he boasted about the legality of the budget, however, this budget has a conditional opinion from the state audit which means that the budget, the implementation of the budget, is not legal. So it's basically a story, it's not legal, it's not unconditional opinion on this budget, it's conditional opinion. And at this point, what would the MPs now say to me here to the representative of the Ministry of Finance? To have a budget, to carry out a budget that is subject to certain conditions and irregularities. And it's not a good message, and I hope mainly when we're not, I don't know what's going on with these budget expenditures and I'm still, the one with extra budget users, and really when I see all those projects that are promised, I think here I'm watching a number of projects run, a number of projects that the government brings to its sessions like Split four years ago, here's a fellow Sanader he was sitting in front of the picture when they promised 2 billion kunas, 2 billion kunas of projects. Is it also booked, is it a government book, who knows it's registered or it's not a tribale check now, so here's how much of it is accomplished if you can if it's in your area, if it's not in your area, mostly I don't see that road, I don't see these released projects only what I see from the Wolf's Tunnel to, I see from the Vučevica exit, you know if Vučevica, Ante Sander knows well, means the Vučevica tunnel exit, i.e. exit from the highway to a tunnel that doesn't exist. 40 million quadruple road, it has a project, it is done in Croatian roads, it is now for 2021, but it is not because of the Cetina region, it is not for the property end of this fast road compound, and it is not the tunnel Ravca – Drvenik which has been opened several times so far, you have said that you are the year in the audit. That tunnel's been opened one four, five times so far, and now I don't know how he's registered, because Branko Bačić is setting up the cornerstones in 2005. And always on the budget when I was making amendments, those exact amendments that the government made as its proposal. which suggested that 2 billion kuna projects for the Split-Dalmatia County, when I was giving amendments then the habit of responding is project documentation being produced because project documentation is being done. So can you check how much of this project documentation has been made so far, how much has this project documentation cost and been archived? If 15 years says nonstop says there is project documentation in the production, the project documentation is similar to your strategies, even those strategies would be worth checking how effective they are and how much they cost Croatian citizens. I mean, I just don't know if it's your job legally prescribed, but it's promised so much that I don't know if there'll be more projects, they're letting go of those billions. Most of the time, out-of- budget users are very important, and of course it's unfortunate that in 2021. We are talking about 2019i on the budget which has not been carried out in accordance with the law. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35662	The next debate is representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35663	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the State Audit Office, respected colleagues and colleagues. The report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 is presented before us. Report as for 2018 is a conditional opinion, so there are shortcomings. If we look at the report from the year before, we see that some things are repeated. In this respect, the transfer of funds between the budgetary beneficiaries of the state budget has not been properly demonstrated on the intended accounts of the budget budget plan, which has affected the correctness of the shown income and expenditure structure. The revenues and costs of the transfer should be shown in the same amount, and the costs of the transfer of funds are higher by 24 million kuna, and in the year earlier these transfer expenditures were as much as 100 million kuna and 600 thousand kuna. Let's say, a slight improvement. Furthermore, the support granted to employers amounting to €35 million prescribed by the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar is not shown in the context of expenditure but as a reduction of income from contributions to pension insurance. A year earlier, it was $17.8 million. So it repeats itself year after year. As part of the staff expenditure, incomes of 7 billion and 800 million kuna related to salaries and other expenditure for primary and secondary school employees have been shown. Since these expenditures should have been shown in the context of expenditure to assist other budget users... have affected the regularity and demonstrated structure of the expenditure of the state budget. We also have a grudge against consular services, incomes are shown by 20 million and 500 thousand kunas less than they've achieved. Part of the exchange rate differences realised and the difference arising from the application of the currency clause were derived from public debt transactions, not recorded in the manner prescribed by the budget accounting regulation and the accounting plan, which affected the amount of income, expenditure, expenditure and the difference in revenue and expenditure of the state budget. The transfer of funds from the Treasury to the accounts of budgetary users in business banks is not identical to the real situation because in certain cases the implementation of the financial plans of the budget users has been increased by neutralised funds in the accounts of the users in the commercial banks. The budget accounting gaps relate to the recording of changes in the value of the volume of assets and liabilities, the recording of write-downs, claims and liabilities and the presentation of financial assets relating to shares and shares in the principal and securities. Conformity of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency or subject to the currency clause on the day of the establishment of the balance sheet and the list of assets and liabilities to be recorded under off-balance sheet records. This is a series of irregularities in the implementation of the state budget. This level of irregularities to put this in a private company, I have a feeling that someone could get fired very quickly, the head of finance first, and the owner wouldn't have done the same well. So much for carrying out the state budget. The state budget as well as its implementation should be if not impeccably then at least with fewer shortcomings because if we expect everyone to comply with the laws, work by the rules, regulations, the rule of law of the state should be a model, and the state should, for the second year in a row, as far as I have been able to verify, have a conditional opinion. The SDP Club appreciates the work and efforts of the Office of State Audit and will support the SDP report, and those carrying out the execution should wonder how they do not have a positive opinion in parallel. All those involved in the audits know what opinions the audit brings and that conditional opinion only means that a number of irregularities have been identified, and a negative opinion audit is given only when serious infringements or illegal actions are detected. This is not good, but let it go to the souls of those who carry out the budget. And I fully commend the work of the State Audit Office in the way they work, making sure that they are disabled with the staff as well as that they are among the least paid, and let us consider that people who work in the State Audit Office must have much greater knowledge than those who regularly control and warn those who make mistakes in parallel and who have much, much higher salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35664	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35665	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the State Audit Report on the revision of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019. We've talked about this execution before and how late it is, but here it is. This report was completed at 6 months last year, and here we are today talking about it. The audit expressed its conditional opinion and this is the second year in which the Ministry of Finance has been given a conditional opinion, so they have found some technical problems with the statement of revenue and expenditure, or how the report states the audit carried out for 2019 identified irregularities and failures relating to the preparation and implementation of the state budget, the accounting framework, the reporting and the financing account and the State guarantee. And last time, then, last year, we had a conditional opinion on the State budget implementation report for 2018. 64 recommendations were made at least on this report on the day this report was drawn up in the 6th month, carried out about 35 of them, although most of the deadlines were completed by the end of 2019. So, as the colleague mentioned earlier, the State Audit is doing its job, doing the job as it should eventually fall to carrying out the recommendations. The findings in this report point to serious failures in the Ministry of Finance and problems both in the legal frameworks and even in the Law on the implementation of the state budget, which according to the finding in one place has not been regulated in a proper and transparent manner. It's interesting now among the findings to see some details, first those who point out that we have even some black holes I would call it or literally don't know where the money goes because budget users' accounts in business banks don't seem to be controlled. For example. in the report, in certain cases, the funds allocated to the accounts of the budgetary users in the commercial banks have significantly deviated from the funds referred to in the payment requests provided by the competent departments, the audits of certain budget users found that certain budget beneficiaries had funds at the end of the year in their accounts, and the balance sheet had no commitments and then did not return those funds to the public budget account but continued to use them in the following financial year. Moreover, the finding that significant financial resources in the accounts of financial customers in commercial banks given these significant resources with a view to increasing transparency and economics is the opinion that budgetary users should provide data to the Ministry of Finance on financial assets in accounts in commercial banks annually. So there are some accounts in the business banks, we don't know what the sources of those funds are, and they don't match the amounts that are out there don't match the documentation. From the findings as I have said before, we have problems with laws and regulations, we are proposing amendments to certain regulations, some new instructions, compliance with the rules, compliance with the provisions of the budget law, so these are often findings. And third, it warns of the possibility of growth even the debt of the state budget due to exchange rates. There is a lot of mention of the call for transparency, it would be good to respect the guidelines for fiscal transparency in order to be transparent. One of them is that information should be presented in a timely manner that encourages and analyses measures and promotes accountability. One of the indices that measures the transparency of the budget of the state so-called State. Budget openness index for Croatia is that index in 2019. 68 on a scale of 1 to 100, we took some 21st place among 117 countries, although there is some progress in this transparency there is still a lot of work to make this budget even more transparent and open to the public. In fact, Croatia does not have any mechanisms in place that the public can participate in this whole budget process at all. She also mentioned a colleague before in her presentation one of the recommendations is an institution which measures the index to strengthen the role of the Parliament or is recommended that the representatives receive the draft budget at least two months before the budget year. We have already heard about the technique itself, or about the fact that the documentation can be in both machine-readable and excelled Excelses which can then be analysed more easily, not in PDF documents which are actually documents and scanned, and then you search them hard and search them, etc., so this is a problem not only at the state level but also in local units. So somehow incomprehensible, some kind of paper is being used that's then being re-scanned, and it can actually be saved in both the process and the whole paper. So here's the commendation I'd say of the State Audit, but two years in a row conditional opinion for the Ministry of Finance, I don't think that's good at all. You said here that when I asked if some of the recommendations were already in the implementation that I could find these in the table, I'm not sure this table that is shown here are the findings from the previous revision, not this one, so for these findings we're still expecting actually the answer of the Ministry of Finance in which these finds will realize whether these deadlines have not been seen here, they're not seen here in this report. Here's that, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35666	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35667	Good evening, everyone. Dear Vice President, the State Budget Audit Report, the State Budget Implementation Report for 2019, we already said that it might be more appropriate if we had come here earlier for a plenary session than it is. We heard the minister's argument about why it wasn't last fall, but okay, that's it. The conditional opinion either first or last time, but I need to point out, but we heard here through discussions of colleagues from other clubs how the budget is implemented illegally, how it's non-transparent, how the money is wasted, how the money is spent irrationally, I would just take one step back and explain it. It is not a revision of the way in which the state budget is implemented, but a revision of the way in which it is recorded and shown the implementation of the state budget has been carried out. So it doesn't mean that the state budget was unlawfully executed, but was only given, given the opinion that some things weren't exactly rightly stated in the report, that they had to be recorded differently. That's a huge difference. A huge difference is that the budget is being illegally implemented, that someone is doing something that is not foreseen by the Budget Law, then the case would probably have been passed on to the DORH long, long ago. We've also seen the number of recommendations and the number of orders given in this audit, so if we compare that to the 2018 budget review, we see that it actually decreases that number because there in 2018 it seems to me in total that there were 38 hundred recommendations, which results, this time 16. And we heard the opening in, by representatives, representatives of the State Office for Auditing that in the meantime some shortcomings, some shortcomings have already been removed. So we can't tell that story about registering salaries in schools that were founded by units of local and regional self-government to repeat it over and over again, I'd say it's repeated. Yes, it has been repeated, but it is not repeated, is it corrected in the 2020 budget, for 2021. A similar thing is about those support for entrepreneurs under the Vukovar Act, it has been repeated, but in the meantime it has been corrected and more, we no longer have these disadvantages in the reports of executions of the state, state budget. Of those 64 recommendations that have been drawn from the previous years, we have seen that more or less within the deadlines have been executed or partially implemented we still have them in the implementation process, here I hope that when we discuss the revision of the report on the implementation of the 2020 budget, that number will be even smaller. We heard something here in the debate, and we heard something from the introduction that some things in the meantime and they got rid of it and fixed it. I would just say that if the Republic of Croatia and our Ministry of Finance were not isolated, that if we look at cases and practices and across Europe it is not strange that conditional opinions are expressed on the report on the implementation of the state budget. So it's not the end of the world now if we get, if it's a conditional opinion for the budget report, it's still a fact, I'm not going to say the usual thing, but it's no wonder if we take the complexity of the state budget as much as it is a complex and broad topic, so all of those ministries, then divide, so the users, so it's no wonder that there might be something that's not the most awkward, I'm going to put it this way, most subtlely stated. But then again, it does not mean that it is unlawfully spent, and that the money of the budgetary taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia was spent in an illegal manner. I am glad to hear that we will also have a report on the use of EU funds before the meeting. I think it will be one of the more interesting reports that will come here in front of parliamentary deputies, given that it is always somehow mysterious to how much money is actually spent by the EU, so when they are actually withdrawn, how agreed, that this is finally demystified and that they are disclosed in one real report how much we withdraw funds from the EU to make it clear to everyone, that there are no more obstacles, derivatives, misreading. The new Budget Act is announced, we heard it will bring a higher level of transparency and transparency and availability not only of the state budget but of the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. I can't say anything but here's what I can't wait for this bill to come here with a proposal before the council and we'll advance our budgets. Both this state and our budget users are units of local and regional self-government. When we talk about the budget and how complex and broad the subject is, I have to kind of pull the parallel and my, with my personal maybe experiences, already here are four times I've had the opportunity to propose the budget of a single unit of local self-government, actively participate in making, actually here and I personally know how big and huge the job is, and I know how many years we always think that we should show, structure, transfer, and everything for the purpose of a easier, more transparent way of using the budget, execution, and so on and for the purpose of clearer and more transparent reporting. And then it's no wonder that the state budget has a constant need to improve, and also regulations that regulate this whole budget story, constantly have to be improved and, of course, there are these things and that may not always be done in the right way at the moment when the state audit expects it. As for the work of the state audit, I can't do anything else, we've heard here and from colleagues, but to commend the work, a zealously done report, as every time so far, what is actually expected of the State Audit Office. I also had experience with the work of the State Audit Office on my own case of my city and in fact recommendations, and we didn't take the audit orders as some kind of punishment but rather as a guideline on how to go right in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35668	Next is an individual debate, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35669	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the respected deputy chief state auditor with an associate. This report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2019 is a conditional opinion, however, it should be clarified to the public that there is no scale between conditional and unconditional opinions and that there is no conditional opinion on how some here interpret it. There are certain anomalies and recommendations that need to be corrected by the state budget. The state audit is very high-quality and has a lot of attention to each revision and everything they find and do in a way that actually helps everyone, and the state budget must do so in one way and implement it through certain regulations, because the Ministry of Finance then also creates rules on budgetary accounting and all that is found and suggests otherwise that there are certain consequences for all other budgets and budgetary users. The state budget as you know has increased the number of extra budget users and that is what further increases the coverage of the transactions itself and the budget as such. These remarks, which were made for 2019, were partly implemented in 2020 and were implemented in the budget, especially in relation to the salaries of primary and secondary school employees, because it is over 7.8 billion kuna and it is normal that the place of cost is actually where it came from, and we know that cities and counties are founders of primary and secondary schools. So it's something that life has shown that it would be more logical to show at the cost where it comes from, but it's not some kind of irregularity that's supposed to change really nothing has ever been hidden but proved in a different way. There are also these support and consular services and the like, but what I would like to point out is that always in execution and in the recommendations made by the State Audit automatically gives what I said to withdraw and amend certain laws, primarily the Budget Act, and then the regulations that then define it. It is very important here to say that in the record and in the assessment of property in many units of local self-government and users did not work. These are very demanding procedures, it costs a lot, and then let's say that such assessments must choose the path which and how it will be done, but in any case it is important that we fix the situation by showing assets and by creating a data base with quality information about the value, because it ultimately brings much more quality management of public finances, and also finance in the context of ownership within local self-government units. All this, therefore, that the State Audit has also established a quality correction and coordination with the State Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35670	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35671	I'm hanging out with the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As head of the local self-government unit, I always view the review as something positive, no matter what her opinion will be. So when we get the audit results, I get a clear direction on what might have been wrong, and how to fix it. And we make a deal and we always get a deadline that obliges us to make it right in time. With each audit, I believe that we are always one step better, a little bit neater, a little more transparent in budgeting any units of local self-government, but also this state budget of ours. implementation of the State budget for 2019 The subject of this audit report is precisely that budget for 2019. in the form of total financial operations of the state apparatus with all budgetary and non-financial users, the financial value of more than 139 billion kuna. But they controlled the preparation, implementation of the budget, the accounting framework, reporting, revenues, expenditures, the financing account and state guarantees and the budget framework, means the overall implementation of the budget. The report we are discussing in my opinion is a very good and quality document and it has fully met its objective, which is to give reasonable assurance that the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. drawn up in accordance with the prescribed framework shall report. As we have said in a large and powerful business which means budget implementation, the state budget is common to detect and errors within certain parts of the budget. This report identified errors in a series of errors within that budget. However, if you studied the report better, you could see that the moss was about errors in a layman's named enrollment on the wrong items. A colleague of Mandaric's just explained it in plastic terms. So we can see that things were shown in one paragraph, the opinion of the revision that they should have been shown in other paragraphs. Errors resulting from unclear interpretations of showing, achieving and spending of dedicated revenue have also been observed and guidance is also needed to address irregularities. There has also been knowledge that there is a need to carry out an analysis in order to take further actions in order to remove irregularities. The State Audit Office further proposes to the Ministry of Finance to establish a cash reporting system, also proposes to supplement the rules on budgetary accounting and the accounting plan, proposes to harmonise the provision of a guide for the recording of loans and the rules on budgetary accounting and proposes a number of other and useful things. It can also be seen that the Ministry of Finance has only seen some mistakes and has only taken action to remove certain irregularities. What is important is that the report has not identified any major fundamental irregularities which would lead to the implementation of the budget contrary to the Budget Law. The report made clear its opinions on irregularities, clear instructions and deadlines for their correction, and I believe that the ministry will follow the instructions of the audit. Besides, since we're already in 2021, I believe most of the irregularities so far have been thought and worked to remove these same ones. All in all a good, quality document that will help carry out the 2019 budget on the experiences of this audit I am convinced will be a much better audit at the implementation of the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35672	The individual next debate is the distinguished representative Ankica Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35673	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the State Audit, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, the State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. The audit objectives are set in accordance with the standards and guidelines of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions by verifying the accuracy of the data presented in the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019, the verification of the planning process for the implementation of the State budget, the verification of revenue and receipts, expenditure and expenditure compared to the planned State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019, the verification of the borrowing and the granting of guarantees and the approval of funds from the budgetary stock and the examination of the organisation and the management of the accounting of the state budget. The audit was carried out during the first half of 2020. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. covering the areas and this preparation and implementation of the state budget, the accounting framework for reporting, revenues and receipts of the state budget, expenditure and expenditure of the state budget, the financing account, the State guarantees and the budget stock. Based on the audit carried out of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. The State Audit Office identified irregularities and failures in the area of preparation or planning, implementation of the State budget plan, the accounting framework and reporting, the way of financing and state guarantees. Finally, the State Audit Office gave or expressed its conditional opinion on the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget for 2019. with specific tasks and recommendations. The report on the audit carried out also described the facts that led the State Audit Office to express its conditional opinion, and tonight we heard from Mrs. Rogosic, Deputy Chief State Auditor, specifically what are the reasons for expressing the conditional opinion. I have to put it here and say that some MPs do not have the correct criteria of opinion tonight, but they speak by heart when it comes to conditional opinion. A conditional opinion shall be expressed when there is a doubt of one or more positions in financial reports which is significant, but is not decisive to understand financial reports or if business has not been carried out to a lesser extent in accordance with the applicable regulations, it shall be referred to an unconditional opinion but also to a clear emphasis on the reason for which the conditional opinion is given. I personally believe that the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. 140 billion kunas to be commended, and we have also achieved surpluses, i.e. surplus incomes and incomes on expenditures and expenditures. And the fact that some minor errors have been identified and the shortcomings are not even resented, and I think that it is not all as bad and black as some MPs speak and criticise in their discussions. As we see in the report on the annual audit, the Ministry of Finance has been shown to have orders and recommendations on areas. In the meantime, certain shortcomings have also been removed since the audit and individual recommendations proposed by the state audit have been implemented, and some recommendations are under way. I also find that the implementation of the tasks and recommendations referred to in the previous audit, i.e. in 2018, is carried out in accordance with the implementation plan for what we can see from their status. I hope and believe that these proposals, suggestions, orders and recommendations by the state audit will contribute to further and even more effective transparency and economy in the use and availability of budgetary resources. Based on my personal experience with the work of state audit as the head of local self-government, I would like to commend their exhaustive and tiring work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35674	We have two replicas, wait. First is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35675	Thank you very much. My colleagues would agree with this latest finding that the tribunal should commend the work of a state audit that determines its work in continuity very well and thoroughly. However, you have concluded in one section that parliamentary representatives are insinuating something that happened in the budget. Parliamentarians do not insinuate but the implementation of the 2019 budget has received a conditional opinion of the state audit. I don't know how you're not unconditional, but conditional, which means that it wasn't in accordance with the law to carry out the state budget. And that's a legitimate question of parliamentary deputies. They're not insinuations. It is discussed how many mistakes are smaller, larger, whether to correct but the fact that the opinion is subject to the conditions clearly read by this representative of the state audit. Therefore, the tribals would be you. simply decide if it is unconditional or conditional. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35676	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35677	Thank you. I told my colleague Bulj here that some MPs are saying that conditional opinion is expressed when it's bad, bad, bad, bad, wrong, criminally this. Therefore, such an opinion can only be unfavourable and the conditional opinion has its own criteria and, therefore, the State audit report on this accounting report, on the implementation of the annual accounts for 2019 and gave its conditional opinion and is thus described. So we have unconditional, conditional, unfavourable and abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35678	Okay, next replica, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35679	Thank you. Here, the last individual debate tonight, so I'm sorry that a lot of colleagues have left, you've said all this nicely, and that they're actually hearing a lesson in basic definitions about the area of review. Here, I'm sorry that we're here maybe five, six at the end, plus the chairman and the lady from the State Audit Office to hear a nice lesson, which means conditional, unconditional, unfavourable opinion. You said that very nicely, it was very clear from tonight's debate. The implementation of the state budget is not questionable, it is not illegal but only some of the things concerning records, records of events and changes were to be recorded differently and that is why conditional opinion is issued. And I thank you for having a very nice lesson in basic definitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35680	I thank my colleague Mandarić, at least I who has already been head of the municipality for 20 years know very well the Law on State Audit and I know very well what I am when I came to the municipality and then for a time I had parole, and now 3, 4 and 5 supervisions unconditional opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-24-0.u35681	Thank you, we've exhausted the debate with this, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 96. Thank you very much, good night. Session interrupted at 22.42 hours.
