ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27257	You, too. Mrs. Andreja Maric will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27258	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the last few days, an old problem has surfaced in the media area, debts to wholesalers are growing again. The current debt is 5 billion kunas, of which hospitals owe 4.1 billion kuna and pharmaceuticals billions and 100 million kunas. Representatives of the wholesaler say they are now paying where they care in October of last year. Despite the 1.34 billion kuna partial recovery in December, plus another 300 million kuna debts continue to grow. Each month hospitals create a debt of 220 to 250 million kuna. Even 15 hospitals have payment deadlines for over 356 days, and there is already a problem with limited supply, and there is a serious threat of shortages of certain medicines when stockpiles are exhausted in storage stores. In view of this rate of payment, only every fourth drug is paid, so the reasonable cries of wholesalerry are that they cannot supply health care facilities indefinitely with medicines, equipment and medical products without being subject to their obligations. The Veledrogerys are demanding an urgent settlement of 2.7 billion kunas for the settlement of debts of hospitals and pharmacies. They are threatening possible executions towards the biggest debtors, which means that the primary function of the hospital, which is the treatment of people, will be extremely endangered. We have long warned the ruling to threaten the collapse of the health system, the coronary crisis has further deepened problems, but the resolution ministry i.e. The government does not implement the necessary reforms and does not address the accumulated health problems that exist for years. With regard to the financing of the system of mathematics is simple, if you spend on the treatment of the patient 1,000 kuna, and the state pays you 500 kuna, it is clear that the debts will accumulate. The existing limits are not sufficient for normal business and the system cannot function. On the one hand, you have general and county hospitals, health homes, pharmacies, emergency medical institutions for whose business is the founder, so County and City of Zagreb. The KBCs are under the hat of the state to resuscitate them. According to the Law of the Institutions, the founder of the institution is in full and not limited to its obligations, and according to the Health Protection Act, it is stated that in the exercise of its rights, obligations, tasks and objectives in the field of health care of units of local, regional self-government provides funds if not provided by the Republic of Croatia. The State determines the prices of medicines, the size of the limit, the categories of population that are exempt from paying contributions to health care and supplementary insurance, for which it does not meet all obligations itself, and the founders of health institutions, so the county should then settle all debts. So it happens in practice that the county is forced to transfer money from one institution to another in order to at least partially rehabilitate it, reach into budget rebalancing, etc. But that's not enough. The finance minister has not once provided information that in Croatia, health care is allocated to 861 euros per capita, and in other EU countries 3,100 euros and 9.9% of GDP, respectively, which is enough to function. What does that tell us? This is no longer how it goes. This system is no longer sustainable and the state must present reforms and clearly tell everyone how it will do it, whether or not it will hit every citizen's pocket, and not do it under the radar. Well, one example is a new supplement for those drugs that patients have never paid for before. I'll give you an example from my profession, many diabetic patients wish I could no longer pay for my medicine because his price has jumped from 80 kuna up to 130 kuna so they're begging for another drug. Let's say Metformin and Levotiroxin, which so far have not been charged, are now paying for several kunas, kuna per kuna. So, at the small door HZZO made reference medications at the end of 2020. which resulted in the collection, but the additional problem is that medicines are classified by groups, not by molecules, so it practically mixes pears and apples, and when a patient asks for a treatment change, you often cannot prescribe the best medicine, but rather a medium variant that is not being paid. So in conclusion, patients conclude quality health care, the modern 21st century, and the state has to make it possible. So the government is on the move, or the resolution ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27328	Thank you, too. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27329	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. This girl is Martina Štefančić, Martina Štefančić would be 31 this year, but Martina Štefančić never had a chance to go to elementary school, Martina Štefančić never had a chance to fall in love, get married, have her own children, Martina Štefančić was brutally executed, murdered in '92. in the Municipality of Borovo in Borovo Sela, in the arms of her grandmother only because she was Croatian. These are your Dario and Damir Paksec brothers, who were also in '92. in occupied Vukovar executed neither they had the chance to fall in love, nor they had the opportunity to marry and have their own family, their children or their grandchildren. Unfortunately, with them were executed and their parents and thrown into the well and today in the town of Vukovar the last name Paksec is gone, their line has been destroyed forever. This is Tomislav Miklos, eight years killed in October of '91. He died along with his mother from a Serbian grenade in the town settlement of Mitnica and he had never had the opportunity to fall in love, to create his own family, to have his own children. Yesterday in the town of Vukovar, a permanent installation was set up at the Pastoral Centre of the Franciscan monastery, an exhibition about children killed in the Homeland War in the area of the town of Vukovar and surrounding places. Thanks to the author of the book "Mama Don't See Heaven" Ana Galovic, biography, unfortunately short biography and tragic fates of 34 children's victims were killed in the Homeland War, their paintings, the way and place of death. And I think they deserve to be read their names at least in this Croatian state council. Igor Balaš 16 years old, Dalibor Černok 6 years old, Stjepan Rukavina 17 years old, Gratijela Jelić 15 years old, Nevenka Markuš 17 years old, Boris Vaselek a member of the Ukrainian National Minority was killed in Petrovic for only 5 years, Stevo Gegić 17 years, already mentioned Tomislav Miklos and his mother, 6-month-old Ivan Kljajic, Mario Kolarić 12 years old, Dario Peijić 11 years old, friends Antonija Vidaković 16 years old and Josip Bandić 15 years old, Đorđe Vidaković 13 years old, Josip Kovačić 11 years old, Antonija Zeko baby prematurely born in an incubator whose electricity flow was interrupted by the Serbian grenade dumped at Vukovar Hospital, Ivan Barbarić, Sabahudih Gršić 16 years old, Matej Aleksandar, Matej Alexander, si sibran and Zorica Pavica Pavić 17 and 15 years old, Goran Čović. Dragutin Balog, Tomislav Baumgartner, Igor Kacic were killed on Ovcara. Igor Černok was killed in the breakthrough, and after the occupation of Vukovar Martin Štefančić, Dario Damir Paksec, Franjo Matijević and Aleksandar Jagodić. I call upon you when you come to Vukovar to visit this permanent lineup, remember these angels, pray for their souls because I believe that the innocent look upon us from heaven from a better world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27440	Thank you, too. Mrs Vesna Vucilovic will be the position of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. For a year now, our Information Programme has started with three indicative numbers, several indicative numbers related to the covid-19 virus epidemic, and under the radar there are numbers that are far more alarming and important for Croatia's future. Official statistics from the State Statistics Institute in January this year published official data on last year's population movement according to which Croatia has reached the highest mortality, minimum birth rate and the largest natural decline since its existence. 20.721 is the difference between the number of deaths and births in 2020. I was waiting for a reaction, unsuccessfully, nothing. There's no reaction from the ruling, there's no concern in the media, there's nothing. Full silence and pain, but the crown, covid it every day and so on for a year. And these data didn't cause an absolute reaction anywhere. In every normal state, this natural decline of population from 20,721 people would be a sign of the overall mobilisation of all experts and the creation of not one but several proposals for the demographic revitalisation of Croatia. It is obvious that no one cares or is waiting for instructions from Brussels, and to be even more amazing, she is the Commissioner for Demography at the European Commission Dubravka Shuica from Croatia, not a single trace of her, not a single voice. No one seems to care that at this rate, if it doesn't get worse in just ten years, only by natural means, 200,000 inhabitants, these are the two cities the size of Osijek, the population of several of our counties. If we add emigration to that, then all the alarms would have to be on fire in every country that's considering its future. For the period from 2015-2019, According to official data from EUROSTAT, the population of Croatia decreased by 4.26 inhabitants per 1,000 population due to emigration. Only one country is worse than us, this time it's not Bulgaria but Lithuania. Empty spaces affected by war like Banovina and Slavonia are no longer only demographic but also economic and security problems. Despite all projects and investment-enhancing laws, regional inequalities remain present, they do not shrink. Life standard and purchasing power do not grow despite the billions that are poured into five Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sreme through the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sreme". 18 billion worth of projects have not stopped eviction or reduced regional inequalities, and then infrastructure projects are invested, which in the short term employ a construction operation, and in the long run only generate maintenance costs, new jobs are missing, and even more tragic construction is an economic branch that has a chronic labour shortage so that workers from neighbouring countries work on energy recovery. At our universities, young people are educated for professions that are currently not needed by Croatia, so they go abroad where they get a job as soon as they come without recommendations and appropriate party books. Something rotted in the state of Croatia, apparently smells more and more powerful, furnished tenders, manipulation of state property, guessing, various marriquettes of local leaders become a serious problem that eats our country at all levels, chokes economic freedom, competition and entrepreneurship. Until we make a local shift, we'll have a hard time making a positive shift throughout the country. The demographic problems and the devastation we're witnessing are a complex problem, pushes under the carpet and doesn't solve it. Until we understand the seriousness of the problem and start working on it, everything will remain like this. Let's not do that in 10 years. is now too late because we have Croatia, but the question is whether the Croats will be in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27512	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash, who will present the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27513	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you probably all heard that joke when television comes to record a contribution about one man and his usual day, but the problem is that he spends his day mostly with brandy or gemist and it's in a client or in a pub and a reporter tells him that he talks a little bit about cultural activities he deals with and then he starts, so you know first when I get up, I get up and I get dressed and go to the library and when I get there, the guys are already read. This ancient joke reminded me of some of the latest decisions of the civil protection headquarters regarding what can and who can or cannot work in Croatia. One of the things that can be done is sitting in a casino or a casino, but one of the things that can't be done is doing sports in a closed house. It's one of the absurd things I want to warn you about today. To be quite specific, this decision means that, for example, Six adult high school graduates can go to the casino or casino without a problem and sit there until they're ready to sit at the machines or tables and spend their money in the middle of the night and create addiction. Dependence on the cube is, by the way, one of the most dangerous and widespread addictions that can lead to material and psychological problems and, in difficult cases, encourage criminal behavior because of the need to obtain an increasing amount of money because let's not fool ourselves with gambling houses always wins. On the other hand, these same six graduates who may be sitting next to each other in class every day for half a day, and socializing in their spare time, I can't go to school or any other sports hall and play hack three to three because it's forbidden. To make things crazy, they can't hang out in either one of them's house because they're allowed to be people from two households at most. So, after school at this still wintertime it's a bad time these guys from this story can't even hack into the hall, not even home to one of them, but what I can do is go to the casino and hang out there for a while. And to be clear, I'm not talking about the fact that casinos need to close down to prevent people from doing it becomes a serious burden for all of us together, but what I want to emphasize and say is that the measures are once again unbalanced and under-thinking and there are always some who are allowed something, and others are not. So if the activity fills the budget then it can be done or if the gathering organized the church and then the people at the top of the headquarters can stand in that mass. Everything together is crazy, everything together is absurd and because official recommendations about training are in cases where they are allowed to be very detailed and strict. So, when it comes to training, you have to keep track of the people present with contact data and make a schedule for everyone who's going to be in the hall at some point, but even with that in detail, these six graduates from this story can't go to the gym. But where can I go? I can go to the casino, I can go to the casino, I can bet, and the three of them are like jokes from the beginning won't pick up on the basket where it would be okay to collect, they'll collect on the machine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27611	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27612	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. In events marked by several previous days, we missed a very important topic. Namely, it's an old person's fee or so on. National pension. In accordance with the social care strategy for elderly people in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017-2020. which provides, inter alia, for the introduction of a national grant for older people who do not make a pension on the basis of previous work or paid contributions. It has been estimated that in Croatia about 60,000 people older than 65 years. has not met the minimum conditions for the exercise of the right to pension. Among the elderly, the majority of people without a pension are women, since women were significantly less than men who participated in paid work outside the house, and their work careers were shorter and interrupted. Thanks to the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, monetary income has been secured for Croatian citizens older than 65. life of 800 kuna per month intended for all elderly people who do not have a minimum retirement period of 15 years and are older than 65 years. and they have no other sources of income. The principle of solidarity and social awareness we have introduced a national compensation for older people, but I must stress that in the previous term of this government we have increased all pensions by 12 and those by as little as 15%. Only the introduction of a national fee was envisioned primarily by the HDZ programme, which was taught by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2016 to 2020, and by the social care strategy for older people. In the previous year, we passed the National Compensation Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, which means that the first payments will now be realised in February for January. Although some speakers before me have also said in passing this law that they are pre-election tricks, we are going down like geese in the fog, yet today they boast that they have supported the same law. However, on Wednesday, February 17th, payment started for the first users of national fees now in 3091. In February, 2,195,000 kuna were secured from the state budget. The most users come from Vukovar-Srijem County, Osijek-Baranja, Zagreb, the City of Zagreb and Koprivnica-Kryzeva County, and users are as I have already said in the largest number of women, even 64.5% are women. The average age of users is 73. HZMO shall be responsible for the implementation of national fees or for the receipt and processing of requests and for the payment of charges to users. According to the projections of the task force in the first year of law enforcement, we could have slightly less than 20,000 users of national compensation. By 31 January HZMO received 6822 requests from which another 1507 could not be solved because of missing or incomplete requests. Once again, I would like to stress that the right to the national compensation for older people can be achieved by a Croatian citizen who turned 65. life with residence in the Republic of Croatia for an uninterrupted duration of 20 years. immediately prior to the submission of the application. It is important that the user is not a beneficiary of the pension, that the income or income of household members achieved in the previous year does not exceed 800 kuna per month, that it is not a beneficiary of a minimum benefit, that it is not a user of accommodation according to social care rules, and that it has not concluded a life or life support contract. The procedure itself for the recognition of the right to compensation shall be initiated by means of a request submitted to the regional services, offices or HZMO exposures or by electronic means via the E-Citizens system. This way I call on all citizens who have met the criteria that have not done so far to apply for the right to receive national compensation for older people, and we also expect the possibility of increasing this compensation in line with GDP growth and, of course, the recovery of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27613	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27682	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Marija Selak Rasdić, who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27683	Today I will talk about the Slovenian and Croatian covid of science, the attack on the constitution, medical waste and other illogicalities of the headquarters of civil protection. First and basic question to which we should get an answer in light of the dictating measures or the introduction of new ones do we or do we not have a county approach? Why can counties as we can hear introduce stricter and not be able to introduce milder measures and by what decision? I'll remind you that by art. The 16th Constitution of any restriction of freedom or right must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each individual case. Therefore, it is worse if the counties are to introduce stricter measures in terms of respecting the constitution than that they can mitigate it because who, then, will justify this proportionality of restrictions on the rights and freedom of individuals. The second question, what about crossing the border of Croatia's or Slovenia's crown of science? In Slovenia, if you have been over the crown for 6 months or have proof that you have been vaccinated twice, you can normally cross the border. But Croatian covid science offers a different approach, if you are over the crown within the 3rd month you can enter Croatia, and why is it in Slovenia for 6 months? And secondly, Croatian border crossings do not yet know those who have been vaccinated, so some of my friends who have crossed the border of Croatia and tried to go back and have been vaccinated, have had to test themselves and go into self-insulation so that they can stay in Croatia because we have not yet introduced the category of vaccines into our measures in terms of crossing the border. So is it because we cough as usual or because of what is more and more talked about, and that's the business of tests that are making these even more profitable? Another question that should also be asked is how many vaccines do we have in the first place? The report on the effects of the measures speaks of 6,800,000 doses approximately, and the vaccination plan speaks of 5,900,000 doses. Furthermore, should we obtain a Russian vaccine, or should we review the quantities of the previously ordered vaccine because we are talking about a million doses of additional amounts of the vaccine? Since we won't need the same amount then, the question of all the questions is what kind of contracts have we signed with vaccine producers at EU level and why do we have no idea about them? Will we review them if we are now forced to obtain doses of vaccines on the side, whether Russian or Chinese? And I will mention a detail, recently I saw "Dnevnik", in the Republic of Serbia where Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said they signed a contract with Pfizer that allowed them to transport on their own, but they had to commit not to resell the vaccine. And it's been explained to us that the fact that we had nothing to do with the fact that we had to get double the amount of vaccine more than we needed so-called. A racket to make us an attractive market by being able to resell or donate later. Aleksandar Vukic was not ashamed to tell the Serbian public what contracts he signed with the vaccine manufacturers on the "Dnevnik" and also discovered that these contracts prohibit the reselling of other countries, and we said we would resell. Whether Pfizer offered us different contracts or we have no idea what our contracts say, and in fact we will end up with a huge surplus of medical waste that we won't even be able to donate because the countries around us have been better off in this whole chaos than the countries that we belong to. So, what is the truth of the contract we signed with the vaccine producers? Do we even know if we are fighting for the interests of the Republic of Croatia and when we will have one universal science as otherwise listens to science that knows no borders, so that even Croats who have been over the crown in six months can normally cross the border, but that our system is finally beginning to recognize those who are vaccinated as those who do not have to pay expensive tests and pass self-insulation. This is just another one in a series of speeches that will unfortunately follow on all the illogicalities of the civil protection headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27772	Thank you. As we said before after this presentation, we're going to move on to, it doesn't say anywhere, we're going to move on to carrying out, so we said, there are positions in the club of representatives and independent representatives and then we're going to continue with the replicas. The first is in front of HSS and HSU Mr. Silvano Hrelja, please. There's no in, there's no in the Rules of Procedure, and I've announced it before, there's multiple replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27773	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the payment of national compensation for the elderly was started, which was initially called a national pension. The right to 800 kuna monthly income has been granted by citizens of the Republic of Croatia over 65 years of age who have failed to meet the conditions for retirement. I am pleased that more than 3,000 people have achieved such income that they will not have to constantly prove that the poor, besides being a representative of the pensioners in HS, I voted for the law solely for these reasons. That fee, let's face it, isn't enough to tell someone without income that we pulled him out of poverty. Recognising government announcements and associations of 100,000 potential users in this major project are realised with only 3%. The good news is that the elderly are less income-free than they thought, the bad news is that the laws that even in the media are called by those who don't know how people live in Croatia. I must say, I have not yet experienced that one law has missed so much in judgment and that makes me think. Do the promoters know how many people live in poverty, how they survive? If they know what it means to live with 1,600 kuna, which is presented as the upper limit of income for an older couple, it would be a better story if the upper limit of poverty was set... 2,710 kuna. On the other hand, I'm thinking if that right comes true, you're old, and you haven't collected 15 years of internships, why condition the incomes of the household? This kind of arranged national compensation for the elderly is holy water, it won't help much, but it won't help. But there is no way to build on that platform the protection of the elderly, mostly women from poverty. That is why it is important in another way to arrange family pensions as I have suggested in this House of Highs in my proposed laws. We have the privilege of learning from others and it would be good when we compare processes, not amounts. Slovenia is still 2012 She left the concept of national retirement, but in another way and very, very effective care and protects her poor citizens and has family pensions. Finally, this is still social aid for those who haven't worked or worked for less than 15 years, now it's settled here, payment goes. As this state fulfils its constitutional obligations, in some ways closed this chapter, but we haven't solved anything. The time spent on announcements and self - appreciation could be much more beneficial. An answer to the question could be asked, and why are those who worked social cases? At the end of the speech, only a few figures remain for the national compensation of 800 kuna. 26,500 people receive a pension of up to 1,000 kuna are 9,000 family pensioners, 93,000 receive a pension of up to 1,500 kuna and 31,000 and a third of all family pensioners. What about them? What do you do? It's a challenge we need to know the answer to as an orderly society. These are numbers, and behind each number is a person with his name and name, with his suffering, suffering, sickness, lack of property. Stand men, make the gentlemen of the government aware that they stand men and deserve to know how they live. It's our duty to help all of us. Croatia has no future when 2% of citizens have less than 1,500 kuna per month, and they scream news of enormous wages, bonuses, corruption and job setting. Unfortunately, we're filling pockets already, and then there's no empty pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27800	It is now up to Mr Marin Lerotić, who will be the position of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u27801	Thank you, dear Vice President. A few days ago, he published new data on GDP developments in Croatian counties for 2018, which clearly shows and results that the Istrian County has the largest, highest GDP per capita in Croatia after the City of Zagreb. This is another one in not clear and unequivocal indicators that Istria represents an economic development locomotive in Croatia but also the result of quality and continuous management in Istria County. Such figures are not a fruit of some coincidence but a result of the valuable work of our citizens, entrepreneurs, tourist workers, farmers, IT workers and all those who contribute daily to the development of the economy in Istria. The Istrian County and our cities and municipalities have long recognized the potentials that Istria has and many programs help our entrepreneurs and business owners. When I mention the IT sector and just last week data were published on the total income of the Croatian IT industry by county for 2019, according to which the Istrian County is at the very top of its income in the IT sector right after the City of Zagreb. This creates excellent preconditions for the accelerated digitisation of the economy and public administration in Istria in order to further step up and achieve even better results. Some companies like Infobip from Vodnjan are proof that we have the potential for the world's very peak in the digital age ahead of us. It is obvious, therefore, that Istria has a lot to say in a number of economic sectors and activities and that we do not want to just limit ourselves to a tourism sector that has been perfectly complex in Istria for a number of years and as such recognised worldwide by the highest standards of excellence. However, I must say that Istria could develop even more strongly, and thus pull the rest of Croatia behind it if the regional development system of Croatia was more just and not based on a discriminatory development index that punishes those who are most successful. As it is now regulated by the Regional Development Act and the Development Index Regulation, this system is not encouraged and acts in fact by limiting, limiting to the future development of Istria. It is clear to us that solidarity should also be shown to those parts of the country that, for some historical, geographical or other reasons, are not at the economic level that we are all seeking. Istria has shown solidarity in countless times over the last 30 years, and we will certainly continue to do so. But the need for solidarity against one must not be turned into discrimination against another. The solution that we all know is being imposed, but also for political reasons, it does not want to be implemented. This is about decentralisation of powers and responsibilities at regional and local level, certainly with appropriate fiscal decentralisation. Because all countries, developed countries in Europe are decentralised, and Croatia's national policy unfortunately insists on pushing the opposite direction and maintaining a failed centralist governance model, which is one of the most important reasons why Croatia is at the bottom of almost all the scales. This crisis is an opportunity for a strong turn in this matter. It should finally be recognised that the state-wide model is not good, and Istria can be an example of establishing a new governance model where excellent results are achieved in the synergy of the public and private sector through a regulated system. As a state, we must use the huge potentials we have and reduce bureaucratic obstacles to finally move forward. Istria as Croatia's most developed region definitely wants and wants to contribute to the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u30952	We move to the last item of the agenda today, which is: Selection, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposals for a decision. There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u30953	I thank the esteemed vice president. Here's the first lead, right? The second is, here's the first time I've seen you, so congratulations. [[Intruder Voter: No, it's different.]] Thank you. We have several proposals for decisions with the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the HS, a member of the Committee, Branko Juričev Martinchev, is hereby authorised, and Tomislav Okroša is elected as a member of the Committee. The motion for a decision on the appointment and termination of the heads' mandate and the dismissal of members and the appointment of a member of the HS delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is appointed Ante Bacic, and is being resolved as a member of the HS delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the same Ante Bacic, as a member of the HS delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, is appointed as the magistrate Zdravka Busic. The proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member and the selection of a member of the HS Legislative Committee is resolved by an Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, and Tomislav Okrosa is elected as a member of the Committee. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the HS, the Vice-President of the Committee Ante Bačić is hereby resolved and Veljko Katazi is elected vice-president. These decisions will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of their adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u30954	I thank you to the board president, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I am merely announcing that tomorrow's session will begin at 9.30 p.m. with a report on a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I wish you all a pleasant rest of the evening. Goodbye. The session was interrupted at 6:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34472	Dear MPs and respected MPs, I wish you a good morning, we continue our work. First point: Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 91. The Proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I now call upon the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, here is the respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34473	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Therefore, as has been introduced and mentioned before us, the draft Act amending and supplementing the EU Regulation of 2016 on indices used as benchmarks, something which came into force in 2018. I'm going to try to intro just give the frame as much plastic and as simple as possible. So, above all, this regulation that we transposed into our legislation in 2018 also aims to promote sustainable investment and those segments that play a significant role in the financial sector. Therefore, just to focus investment on these sustainable therefore green, in line with green policies and sustainable investment and thus achieve these objectives, which is the ultimate carbon neutral economy by 2050. So here we are talking about the application of green policies to, in the financial sector as regards certain operations in the financial markets themselves. So, the reference values mentioned here as the main two changes and additions are usually relevant in the financial markets to measure the performance of the securities or the investment fund, so first of all, we know the most famous ones when you go to the bank, so when they determine your interest rate, we now have one of the three things that we applied this regulation from 2016 or when we brought it to 2018 is, for example, the national reference rate, so the index in determining interest rates is particularly variable, which is actually telling us which is the zero cost of funding that banks in the interbank market achieve, then on that basis is calculated certain costs, margins and comes to a final interest rate. As you know, then you get one percent, most of all, 2-3% relative to the reference rate, so there are different indices. As for the different and stock exchanges, we also have the Zagreb Stock Exchange, so we also have Adria, so they use these certain benchmarks. Of course, this is all aimed at, in fact, preventing potential market manipulations of these benchmarks in terms of their inaccuracy and inaccuracy, which in fact violates market confidence in the cause of loss and consumers, investors and thus disrupts the economic system. So, in particular, what we need to understand here is that we are talking about the whole EU, a financial market in the EU that is far more advanced or more developed than just the capital market in Croatia, but such potential manipulations are harmful when it comes to cross-border transactions due to a direct impact on the functioning of the EU internal market. So, previously, we have had cases of manipulation at the very reference interest rates, so Euribor, Libor and the reference values in the energy and oil sector, they have just spurred the need for more transparent benchmarking procedures. So someone has to tell us what this base is. First of all, what we have here in front of us in these changes and additions is introduced precisely with this objective of the proper functioning of the internal market for consumer protection, of course two new categories of low-carbon reference values, so when we talk about these green policies that is the reference value for climate transition, which actually enables a sustainable transition to a low-carbon circular economy and a reference value that will bring investment portfolios into line with the Paris Agreement's objective, so in terms of limiting the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius... Speeds in the pre-industrial period, so what's more or less known to the public like this. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, by introducing these two new benchmarks, the EU should actually make the EU more attractive to investors in a way that sets a high standard of transparency and builds a long-term path for sustainable investment. These new categories are now trying to say the simplest things are actually voluntary labels intended for them are voluntary, the labels are specifically intended to direct the choice of investors who want to adopt a climate-based, climate-aware investment strategy, so it is specifically prescribed by the previous regulation, but also by these new regulations regarding the two values that are, which are supervisory mechanisms for which we have the HANFA, with the same administrators who can report that they get a certain reference value when investing in certain securities any transaction in the financial markets of capital or something like that where they say that if you invest in this, these financial instruments they have a reference value mark to you in accordance with the Paris Agreement or the climate transition itself, so that you know that you are encouraging and investing in something that is in accordance with the agenda that I mentioned and 2050 of the low economy itself. So that's what's most basic, so first of all voluntary, on the other hand means this particular proposal now, which is before you, the amendments and additions are explained in fact by the roles of the competent authorities given the new two benchmarks, so with this objective that I said, of course, and all that is in the area that these supervisory authorities have, as well as in that part, which are some of the violation provisions of other supervisory provisions that can be fulfilled. So what we would like only to finalize further notes, we apply the following benchmarks that were resolved on the previous regulation, that is to the Crobex family, so di is the administrator of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, also at the national reference rate where it was before and now it's from 31. 3. In 2020, the administrator of the CNB and ADRIAprime therefore again means Slovenska i Ljubljanska i Zagrebačka Stock Exchange where the administrator is also the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Here, it is, in short, something which is certainly a future in which, in accordance with policies and the EU, it is also intended to encourage investment in sustainable development, green policy, green economy, and in this way, the European Commission and the EU intend to give this very kind of ha, I can also say the seal that we will know when investment is there, that it is real, because the main reason that actually appeared when we established these harmonised benchmarks is the kind of prevention of actually manipulative green marketing, as Green Washington says, so where something was advertised somewhere and there were certain certificates that something was in line with the green policy and how it was seen, now this introduces order to really know who is administrator, who can be provided on the basis of scientific hard-core data, that something really follows the policy and thus direct investors to act or know exactly what they are investing. Here, please, if there are any questions, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34474	Yes, thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34475	Thank you very much. Reference values for green policies should mean that this regulation within the EU and we in Croatia will probably have the same benchmarks and indices. So here's my question: Will electromagnetic radiation be regulated? ionizing base cell radiation? In Croatia, 890 times more radiation is allowed than for example. in Paris or, for example, if the harmful projects we have in energy, how are they sanctioned, in what way? ... Someone who has CO2 and too much exhaust gas, which is going to happen, and of course, how can you get in the way of these green policies when we have a corrupt octopus of waste mafias such as CGOs that destroy and manage waste and, of course, environmentals? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34476	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34477	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Bull. So, in addition to the opening act, this part is unfortunately not in the domain of either the Ministry of Finance or this amendment in question and the addition of the law, certainly we follow all of it in accordance with our powers to bring the data and procedures ourselves in line with the general green policy. As far as these examples of you are concerned, it is not the subject nor the work of this ministry nor these amendments nor the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34478	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleague Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34479	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable State Secretary, has injured an article. 238, where he says it's not the theme of this green policy. If you're not ready, if you're not worth the reference then someone from the Ministry of the Environment, someone from the Ministry of Economy, you came here to tell us yourself that it's not the subject and the topic is. So he would ask the chairman to come from other ministries because there is indeed green politics and finance and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34480	Buddy Bull, you're getting a warning. I won't explain much because it's clear to everyone that you deserve it. Let's move on. Dear representative Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34481	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, the capital markets in Croatia are a topic that could be discussed. The fact is that we are now dealing with this topic of sustainable investment, although Croatia for example. Last year, it has been the biggest natural decline since it existed, and I think it's a burning issue, but here I am dealing with sustainable investment, so I'm interested, if you know of course, in what proportion of sustainable investment in the Republic of Croatia is compared to other EU countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34482	I thank you for your question. So certainly the data which is worth mentioning and worth checking, so surely I can't say by heart, that's certainly what I said in the introduction, that unfortunately these provisions, the regulations that we are transposing, don't have so much influence on us given our financial market situation and capital markets in relation to the EU and both globally and globally, but certainly that doesn't mean that we don't need to either follow trends or go deaf on what the objectives and actions of the EU are, which we are, of course, part of the legal gain, so that we will certainly check your inquiry and provide you with the information, I believe that we will be able to get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34483	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34484	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, the price of capital is formed, the non-risk interest rate plus the risk premium. Non-risk interest rate, what you were actually saying, NRS or average cost of funding or EURIBOR or RIBOR. I am now very interested, so in the future when interest rates or capital prices are formed for businesses, whether this premium, because this is a premium on environmental risk, or a premium on CO2 emissions, are given and will be calculated in the price of capital according to our companies, or other words, they need an immediate indication that they have to change their technology or, in the future, through this non-risk interest rate, this additional premium will come because it is some kind of future, so that they can immediately start preparing to change the structure of their assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34485	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34486	I thank you for asking, that this is something logically imposed as the next step in which, if we want to encourage something, we must have certain benefits if we want to invest in green, why we do it, and how we think about it. Of course, this is now voluntary and this is not about any added premiums, I believe that what is in the next plan and the EU Commission's implementing acts themselves, that it will go in this direction, that, therefore, certain mechanisms are created for both the premiums and the costs of capital and the operation itself on the financial market are worth the certain reference value that we are talking about here today. This is currently the first step in which we only allow certain administrators under the authority or approval of the supervisory authority, with us it is the HANFA, to place this authorized kind of certificate that something is in line with the reference values of the green policies, i.e. these two concrete ones that I have listed the right information, accurate information to investors. The next step certainly, soundly what you said was to be followed from a certain financial aspect of investment security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34487	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34488	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. So this proposal provides for the application of the regulation from, therefore, an amendment to the '16 Regulation. in November 2019, which, as regards the reference values that we have on the one hand for climate transition and the benchmarks in line with the Paris Agreement, we can say, a new specific benchmark which certainly aims to boost the EU's transition to therefore sustainable finances, i.e. A very important new reference value that will be of great importance to future investors, i.e. investors. So was there just taking care of this new reference value, especially by harmonising with the Paris Agreement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34489	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34490	I thank the honourable representative. So, absolutely yes, this is also listed as two basic benchmarks, only the first one concerning climate transition, and the second one is the Paris Agreement and the notion of global warming and, of course, limiting the temperature to what is considered a pre-industrial period, and that is something that is certainly going to need to be further developed in the implementation so that not only will we bring from the EU level certain financial frameworks that will stimulate the green economy, but will affect the market itself that will autonomously, that way you also follow those policies that we have all committed and that we are going in the direction. So certainly the Paris Agreement is one of these essential and recognised as an essential component of these regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34491	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34492	Your Honor, A respected secretary of state with an associate. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, just please, attention.]] So here is the regulation, in fact, showing the goal and movement of both the EU and Croatia towards green Europe and green Croatia, so the aim of this regulation is, among other things, through the formation of this new reference value decarbonisation in essence, the environment and that is what is important. So this is how assumptions are created on a voluntary basis, whether we're going to raise the standard and actually preserve the environment for future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34494	Here I agree, only a brief addition to the esteemed representative Peric, so first of all we want to give security and right on the financial markets, particularly Europe, but also in potential and Croatia for that part of the investment that follows exactly this green policy. So, here most of all, someone will be able to put these two benchmarks, that their investment, business and operations on and, specifically here in the financial market in line with green policies and less carbon dioxide emissions, but above all, in the Paris Agreement, as regards global warming, and that is now just the key to really monitoring it from a certain financial side of the aspect and the security of these investments and more favourable, which is a colleague, the distinguished representative of Lalovac said, the very smaller premiums itself possibly on such types of investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34495	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34496	Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned several times global warming. Will you explain to the Croatian public and respected colleagues what is the danger of global warming?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34497	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34498	I appreciate the question. If anyone can do it in 40 or 60 seconds, this professional and scientific subjection. So what we can certainly say as laymen and read from the media that are the consequences of global warming according to scientific data, I will not be going into other people's resources here, so if we are talking about just increasing sea levels or certain climate change, so sure that what we can monitor is that the economy and this financial aspect of ecology, why all this is doing, surely the economy suffers from certain climate disasters, the economy is first on impact, that we don't have to talk about here, we had in our not-so-far future certain disasters elemental, and when I'm talking about climate change, then we know what it means, from the flood, etc., which they have an effect on the economy, and then only that economy must go in the direction to activate and the negative consequences themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34499	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34500	Dear Proposer, Green Marketing, or Greenwashing, is one of the fundamental arguments that is why we are currently making these amendments and amendments to the law or compliance with EU regulations. Do you have any data on the situation with Green Marketing in Croatia, have you done any research that will show us how many frauds we have on the Croatian market and are you planning to do such research in the future, or follow the situation with Green Marketing in Croatia, to justify these changes and additions, but to create one environment of smart and fair business in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34501	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34502	I thank you for your excellent question and for your determination. So first of all, this is what I said and the transposition of European associations that they have just noticed this phenomenon. We don't have to wait for this to happen with us so that we can react, if it isn't so far, I can check if it's ever been recorded. As far as financial markets are concerned, false advertising, investment in certain financial products so comprehensively I say that they do not have their basis, a scientific basis, surely this will benefit us something that if it has not already happened to us, it will not be possible. At EU level, this has been observed, which is therefore a phenomenon in view of their comprehensive financial market, that there must be many more such examples there, and they have reacted. We're moving here and if it hasn't happened to us, even better, but this certainly won't happen again, or we'll have authorized bodies to monitor it and that will give all the recommendations and measures later broken for those who make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34503	Comrade Kleman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, you said yourself that the application of this law is on a sufficient basis, if we all understood correctly. We normally hold that we should really make this a much stronger commitment to both financial institutions and those who, with these reference rates, can work because definitely through the European fund, through the green economy that we mention a lot in this next period that will be one of the levers of our development, should give our economies a chance so that those who apply the green economy can really access better funding than they can today because then there is really no point if financial institutions, funds on a voluntary basis will apply to this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34505	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34506	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Kleman. Yeah, that's exactly what the next step that would be common sense, namely this is voluntary labels themselves are voluntary, namely someone who wants to attract an investor and wants to use their own green agenda and the environmental impact in accordance with policies, they'll certainly want to put it and have reasons to do what, right now it's regulated, we're just here to introduce you exactly to those kind of, these aren't even certificates, they're certain to know which label, who approved it, that it can't come to just someone literally write something in the green font and says it's something green now, right? So, I think that makes sense, but the next full sense is that you absolutely follow it through the premiums itself, which is what your colleague Lalovac said or through the very cost of financing such projects, it would be full application and meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34507	Thank you. We've come to a part of the end, Secretary of State, so please return to your seat. I will now invite the presidents or the committee's rapporteurs to take their word if they want to. No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the club representative of the Homeland Movement and respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34508	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. A colleague Selak Rasudiæ asked about the green marketing, you have examples of how much you want, you go into any chain of commerce, green this, eco what, why, because this is a way to sell your product more expensively. In terms of sustainable investment, we do not need to be overly boasted because we are not very active here, but in the area of products sold on our shelves, there is much more so that it is present in Croatia, perhaps even to a greater extent than in other EU member states, but we return to this regulation. In fact, it is a regulation that we need to transpose, it is not a directive, we do not have much space, but it also tells us how important it is to the EU, so they have not adopted the directive, but the regulation, so let's remind ourselves why this regulation was adopted in principle 5 years ago. In particular, the determination of the price of many financial instruments and financial contracts depends on the accuracy and integrity of the benchmarks. It has been found that there are serious cases of manipulation of these reference interest rates, so it is then because these benchmarks can also be subject to conflict of interest, and it is pointed out that the use of discretionary rights, a weak management system and increases the vulnerability of these benchmarks compared to manipulations. Accordingly, there is a legitimate concern that doubts about the accuracy and integrity of the benchmarks can distort market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors and disrupt the real economy. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Something Lalovac spoke of an objective danger, meaning that there is a certain increase in interest rates, the current situation on the market is such that in some ways there is no such concern because we are still witnessing a record historically low interest rates on financial markets. These amendments and additions, in line with that Regulation, introduce reference values for low carbon emissions with a view to transition towards sustainable investment, and here I will reiterate this sustainable investment because it is extremely important in the EU. Well, then I'm going to get what I said at the beginning. So, let's remember these numerous labels on products that mainly serve for promotional purposes because they mark these so-called products. Eco-acceptable products but only EU eco-label is a label that guarantees consumers. All other labels are de facto part of this green marketing and they are brought by the producers themselves to manage to collect their products, earn more, sell them at a higher price. And now by introducing these certain minimum requirements, at EU level for benchmarks, and related to climate transition was actually expected and all of this sounds a little, you know, complicated, indices, benchmarks, this, that, sounds like something very professional, narrow, which deals with the narrow circle of experts, it's de facto one part of the concept of socially responsible business that refers to socially responsible or ethical investment, the concept is dated back to the 1970s, developed in the United States, has spread to the Anglo-Saxon states, and in the continental part of Europe exists somewhere since 1990. The EAG of Factors, Environmental, Social Corporate Governors or means Environmental Social or Social or Social or Management Goals and in this context should also be seen what is before us today, because de facto, if we look at the definition of Eurosif that he brought in the first half of 2016, then it would be, quote, sustainable and responsible investment and access to long-term investment involving EAG factors in the process of research, analysis and selection of securities within the investment portfolio. The combination of basic analysis and the evaluation of the ESG factors, with the aim of achieving long-term contributions for investors, benefits are achieved for society through the impact on the behaviour of economic operators, means it is no secret that the EU concept of socially responsible business in all segments, as well as in the investment segment, promotes through a number of its regulations and directives and sees this as one strategic framework and tool which will also achieve strategic objectives, mainly related to climate transition and the Green Plan. In the portfolio of these funds are economic operators that implemented the concept of socially responsible business in the segment of environmental impact management and natural resources, ethical labour practices and international business practices. It is also important for these funds that the economic operator’s production programme itself so that they would never invest in arms manufacturers, e.g. or tobacco products, regardless of what some other elements of this concept have implemented. In this way, it aims to promote positive changes in society and achieve long-term acceptable growth rates and contributions for investors. All research shows that the market values of such economic operators and funds carried out both in Europe and Asia or in the United States in the long term have more yields than classical funds. Regardless of all these various indicators that we can find in the media and on the websites, social responsible investment is still a market niche that records only moderate growth. If a broad definition of socially responsible investment is applied, then the market share in developed countries is 10%, the rate of growth in the US is stagnating, in Europe it is relatively high that Europe is currently making Europe a leading market for socially responsible investment in the world, this is particularly true of France, which has defined certain things by its laws, relating to the investment of pension funds and therefore has this very high share of socially responsible investment. In the action plan, on the construction of the Capital Markets Union, the EU Commission points out that new long-term and sustainable investments are needed to increase the competitiveness of the EU economy and allow the transition to a resource-efficient low-carbon economy. In this context, it is stated that capital should be directed towards sustainable investment through environmental social governance bonds. This document before us is basically a continuation of work on transparency and standardisation of parameters in the selection process and measuring the effectiveness of projects financed by green bonds. The European Investment Bank's contribution, which has been actively involved since 2007 and has been constantly working on these processes to improve transparency and standardisation. In line with everything mentioned in the EU, we can expect a rise in socially responsible investment and a wider range of financial products in that segment, how much this will affect our capital market and investment here in Croatia, we will see this. It would be nice to know what part of the socially responsible investment in Croatia, even if by some broad definition and finally, remains really questionable what we will achieve with the implementation of this regulation, and I will give you only one example that refers to the label I mentioned, which is the EU Ecolabel because if we look at it, then probably not because in Croatia it carries 19 products and 6 services, in EU 77 358, which means that we are going somewhere, we don't know where, many times we carry some things, we don't have a lot of choices here, it's about regulations, we have to pass it on as it is. How much this will reflect on Croatia, the Croatian economy, how important it is at this point, here, judge for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34509	All I ask is that we clean up the pay phone so now comes colleague Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34510	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. I am talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the EU Regulation on Indexes used as benchmarks. And now the average citizen when he listens to this debate, he doesn't understand too much, and I asked you a question that would be good for everyone to explain and that the average citizen realized what is being discussed today in the Croatian Parliament. So it's a single agreement called the Paris Agreement, which, if I'm not mistaken, signed Croatia with 200 countries in the world in 2015. The agreement was discussed a lot, and at one point when former US President Trump, left the Paris Agreement, now allegedly Biden is returning to the Paris Agreement. And the purpose of the Paris Agreement is to improve the ecological situation on our planet, on planet Earth. The main problem is global warming, not just global warming, but raising the global level of the world's ocean, the global sea due to global warming. For those of you who don't know, ten thousand years ago, your sea was a hundred yards lower. At the end of the pleistocene, at the beginning of the holocenary. So at that time, they could walk from my Sibenik, for example. to Ancona. Only 10,000 years ago. Some geologists will say, and 20,000 years, but now it doesn't matter that much. Before 2000, at the time of Rome, the sea was about 2 meters lower, and today many of these rustic villas and some shores of Rome are located 2 meters below sea level and today experts who deal with this issue claim that sea level will continue to rise and that the sea will rise or that sea level will rise and become various projections, I will say. Fortunately, they didn't come true. Here I have recently talked to experts, the most innovative Croatian in this field, and projections of the sea level growth in Croatia and globally, not exactly how it should have been, but there is still a very great danger if we only had a sea level of 1 m which still exists in 2150, would have meant submerged all the seas, all Croatian cities, from Istria to Dubrovnik, and that would be a very big problem, economic, environmental and any kind. And now we sign a Paris deal to reduce production, production of greenhouse gases. Glass gases are primarily CO2 gas and other gases like carbon monoxide, so here's methane and so on. They're big molecules that absorb the sun's radiation well. Now the question is, who produced that CO2 gas? Is it made by Croatia? Of course, Croatians also produce it, but I will stress here to a significantly smaller extent than it is produced and produced by the British, English, German, American or Chinese today. And the key thing is, the key question here is the question of sovereignty again, that we will especially approach identical conditions or we have joined the implementation of the Paris Agreement and we are not equally responsible for the ecological disaster that is happening. We're not the same. Because V. Britain and France and Germany, not to leave out a country, and the United States, all of these are our partners and the EU and the NATO Pact, they've evolved to our harm, they've potentially damaged all of us, and when they've developed their societies in dirty economies, and now we're going to introduce a new rule, and that's the rule of let's go to expensive environmental technologies. In order not to get the wrong idea, I am very well-aware and I am in favour of this agreement, but let's be proportionate to the financial weight of this agreement and we don't do it. Or we work to a significantly less extent than it would be fair and fair. Still, to comfort you a little, there are worse than us. There's worse than us. The countries of Africa, the countries of the Third World are in an even worse situation, they are not guilty of anything, so they will participate in this agreement or participate. So, the environmental danger exists definitely, but here we still have to ask the question and the fair approach to solving this crisis. Now the same particular question, you're from the Ministry of Finance, and it might be logical with this law, here's a little bit of consulting with my colleagues, who should defend, say colleagues and the Ministry of Finance, but I think it would be good here if someone was protecting the environment and there's no one because there's one question here, more and more is present in the scientific community that says we're crossing for example today. on electric cars, great, and I will someday hope to buy it, in 10 years, 15, the sooner, the better, and all of us experts tell me that the production of electric car batteries means that it is produced somewhere, that it consumes a lot of CO2 gas and that the production of electricity that recharges the batteries of an electric car, that they again produce or consume gas or CO2 gas. What are we doing then? Let's move on. Says the energy announcement of houses, so we wrap houses in that styrofoam, the styrofoam and these very coverings, these glass wools, for their production are produced in the industry, or consumed by the most CO2 gas. Now I wonder if we're crazy, is it really in our interest to protect our planet from ecological disaster or do we still have some secret lobbys that are going to lay down houses in a Styrofoam and we're going to grow global temperature and sea level? Here I heard recently, the same scientific community is talking about the remains that won't allow the Sun's radiation to enter the house and warm the house and it's bad in winter. So do you agree with me? In addition to what these residues mean, this type of product is also consumed or produced by a lot of CO2 gas. So this issue is very complex and this issue should be discussed more often in the Croatian Parliament. However, here on my part two comments, I do not think that you have explained both to the representatives and to the entire Croatian public at all, which is why this whole story is at its core, secondly that I believe that there was also someone from the Ministry of Environmental Protection who did not participate, and the third most important thing, that I want you as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to influence our Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act sovereignly in this agreement or to try to protect Croatian interest because we are not guilty of today's or at least guilty of today's environmental situation on our planet and some pay to the greatest extent that the price of those who have polluted us or threatened us with their behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34511	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, we will hear a respected colleague, Boris Lalovec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34512	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State with an associate. It is important to say, in the first place, that the SDP Club will support this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Regulation 2016/2011 on Indexes used as benchmarks and that today would actually be a message to all those who invest, to all those who actually know that these ages are the most affected by investments in the time of the coronary crisis, that these values are the only investment values that are in the future to bear certain and economic growth and that one part of today's calculations in those investments will surely in the future and be the premium of the risk of how much of the company emits exactly its own production, emits CO2 or various other greenhouse gases, and that is, in fact, the main message here today, that this is on any voluntary basis, all of them entrepreneurs who will not only rank investment through certain investment portfolios but also small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will, in the future, in fact, in the future, in fact, be the future, the financial and in the future, the financial and financial impact of the banks will be affected. How quickly this will develop, depending on how quickly these administrators will develop, because this is a very complicated job and, as the proposer himself has said, that it is looking for the administrator, this is now only formally where someone will administer those benchmarks. As you know and this was said in the introduction, the reference values are now in Croatia only who are administering the CNB, it is administering the national reference rate, meaning the average cost of financing banks that are now negative or somewhere around the zero and Zagreb Stock Exchange which is actually administered by the Zagreb index Crobex, which is actually due to the actual value of investment in the Zagreb Stock Exchange, right. Now we will see who will appear on the Croatian market around these benchmarks but it is important that this legal solution is defined and that they are defined and that the CNB and HANFA, because they regulate financial markets, the CNB that part of the bank is related, and HANFA all that is not really banks, that they will actually control it, prescribe certain conditions, or those that will administer, must present the methodology to the public or the regulator on the basis of scientific data, the methodology as it calculated a certain reference value. Because every form of property and this is said here very clearly, every form of property will be weighted in the future by that price that it emits or damages to the environment. And it's very clear here said and that's good. Why? And why Croatia is and it is good that it has adopted this agreement, it is good that we are a member of the EU because these certain benchmarks in the past have been the subject of manipulation. Manipulation of big world financial players. And they were even convicted and paid huge fines, many banks paid huge penalties because they manipulated benchmarks, the EU decided to regulate it, it decided to regulate and it is positive and therefore introduces new two benchmarks. But why is this important to Croatia? Because we're very, very sensitive to ecology. And why are we sensitive? Because we're a tourist destination. And it is very important in Croatia who invests, how much CO2 emits, how much greenhouse gases are because the largest part, 20% of GDP, depends on tourism and we like to be proud when we represent our country with green islands, with clean shores, with clean we can, with clean air. And in fact, in this work and these small entrepreneurs who are going to participate in tourism tomorrow and participate in this pure story, the ecological story, should be rewarded. They should be rewarded with lower capital prices, with lower funding prices, because they participate in one industry, in one industry that brings not only well-being, economic gain to Croatia but also bring both environmental and health and the whole positive story for the Republic of Croatia. And because of that, those who actually go to invest, and this will be about investment funds that will invest in tourism tomorrow, a number of investment funds that will invest in a number of small or medium-sized enterprises, we should also encourage such companies to get a lower price of capital through those that will also reflect through these benchmarks. And in fact, this is the goal of the Republic of Croatia which is also the goal of Europe, and in this part, we are in line with these two goals, and since we are very ecologically sensitive and that we are talking, I think we need to push this story even more strongly because Croatia has comparative advantages here, we have something to boast about, we have something to be among the first countries, that we adopt it, that it is implemented, that Croatian entrepreneurs feel it, and that is why I say, support this law, not only through this part where it will be defined as a reference framework only where it is placed on a voluntary basis, but actually here, it seems to me to be. 14 The current law prescribes the powers of the CNB and HAFA to adopt a series of sublegal acts that are appropriate in the meantime, are governed by EU regulations and guidelines of the European authorities, meaning that as soon as possible, and in fact this programme, and that this law is very narrow with actually government programmes and those guidelines of Directive 2030 of Croatia and in fact for the use of EU funds, means this is a very narrow link to the Croatian direction in which EU funds will be used and that we are very clear today to all those entrepreneurs who will compete for the EU funds, you will have a lower price of capital, invest in projects that are not, in fact, harmful to the environment and the Republic of Croatia, and that this is ultimately visible to be seen in better contributions, because these investments that they are actually making more environmentally acceptable behaviour, they are more expensive today. We have to be aware, they're more expensive today than traditional ones, the ones that emit CO2. They are more expensive and that is why we need to tell them very clearly, you will have support, invest and I hope that all of this bill will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34513	Let's move on. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and esteemed counterpart Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34514	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. Here, we have heard, in some way, the support of all those who have so far discussed this law, which, if viewed as as narrow as a law that will define therefore reference rates in relation to therefore sustainable development compared to the emissions of greenhouse gases and harmful substances around us, then we can really end it in one minute. As my colleague Lalovac said, here, and who supported this bill's proposal, it is one framework that opens up one debate, one reflection on the Croatian economy, the economy of Europe and indeed should be paid full attention to it because what depends on us at this point, but everything that through the application of this law, through the financing of sustainable industries, will reflect both for our children and for the future of this country. We must also say that Croatia definitely has comparative advantages compared to other countries because it is not a highly industrialised country and as such it can go the right way into an ecological production, into an investment cycle that will certainly be supported with green, therefore with green economy funds and with everything that brings us now these more generous European funds that are contracted so some time ago by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and indeed generous, it is expensive ahead of us, and we must definitely use them in the best possible way by thinking about sustainable development and environmental production. It is also important to say that we must in some way, regardless of what administrators are defined through this law, which is CNB and HANFA, that we must find ways to agree to both finance and investment funds and banks to subport at lower interest rates through the calculation of the reference values of manufacturers and service providers to motivate them for the green economy. It is the only way we will be able to come to this law because if not, if it is really on a voluntary basis as we have heard it, we will not be able to realize it, we will come to the right application of this law because simply, we are aware that everything that today bears the name and mark of the ecological one is today in our economy more expensive than what it is not, and we with these benchmarks for the purpose of one better consumption, the promotion of such products must come to the point that the capital that is being built into that product must be more competitive than the capital in which that product is not being built in. So we simply need to have awareness that Croatia has potential for green economies, and this law will certainly contribute to both financial institutions and our institutions that will be administrators making one contribution to finance such economies. We are in some way recognizable by the tourist offer and we like to boast that we have the best, most beautiful coast, best food, environmentally clean food, that our environment is relatively well preserved. We can say that national parks are one of our most recognizable tourist products, and that must be one good magnet and one good promotion of our tourism, but also the whole country. So we must also keep in mind that through the tourist product we can apply this Regulation, so all that is spent through the tourist product and through, which we can get through the tourist product and the plasma at a more affordable price, we can get with one good promotion, so green promotion where we can tell our potential guests that we are taking care of the planet, taking care of our country, taking care of the environment. More or less I wouldn't be really obsessing about, with these administrative and bureaucratic terms that go through this law and tend, it's more or less clear there that it defines administrators in principle, which is the CNB and the HANFA that will oversee this, so this bill, and in that sense HDZ will give support to this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34515	Let's move on with the debate, now it's time for the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34516	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Assembly. It is clear that the implementation of these regulations refers to the financial market, but it is also clear that the fundamental issue with which everyone starts and ends talks about climate change, the issue of eco-industry and how to respond to the challenges of the modern era. In this respect, as part of these amendments and the addition of the law, it is stated that by establishing these harmonised benchmarks, and by making minimum standards, each of these benchmarks will contribute to consistency between these benchmarks, and to increasing transparency and preventing manipulative green marketing, respectively, and Greenwashing. First, of course, I will express my dissatisfaction with the way we make laws here or what is delivered to us in terms of descriptions and assessment of the situation that is the prerequisite for new legal changes and acceptance of any law. In order to have a serious and system of debate in any amendment and addition of the law, we should also have arguments and criteria that tell us something about the situation on our market on the basis of which we will decide whether these amendments and additions in the frameworks of the Republic of Croatia are necessary and whether we can improve something beyond the regulations that we need to implement in our legislation. This is just one in a series of laws where we don't get any reference to the current situation in our country, and we're expected to have some excessive discussion. We didn't get that, unfortunately, in our replicas. So we mention here Greenwashing, we have no idea what's going on with Greenwasching or green marketing in the frameworks of the Republic of Croatia or at the level of the financial market. There is some assumption, as I have heard, that there is no such thing in Croatia, that I will personally put it under great doubt, given how much we are coughing for Europe in implementing green policies as such. And we didn't even have a more detailed look at what green marketing is and what is the situation with green marketing in all other industries. I believe that the concept of green marketing is extremely important and that this is one of the key concepts that Croatian citizens are not sufficiently familiar with, and as far as we are currently overrun by the eco industry, and the eco industry rather than doing what it should have done is a basic task, which is to fix or demonstrate the industry that exists with some quality criteria it contains and thus offers products to the market has proved to be a profit industry. In that sense, I would like to remind you that Europe a few years ago was shaken by an affair about the Volkswagen cheating on eco-tests. Such things should be taken into account when we adopt such regulations, or we implement these regulations, which will try to create some kind of a minimum common framework in order to prevent future fraud. These frauds are now an integral part of our lives. The conditions in which the diesel tests were carried out were adapted to a better passing that involved limited release of harmful gases. They justified their escot and thus were able to achieve a better market price. But in reality, the situation was very different. As shown by the subsequent results of allegedly independent testing, Volkswagen’s diesel cars far exceeded the permitted emissions of harmful gases. The epilogue of this problem was such that the US federal judge approved a record $17.7 billion between the Volkswagen Group and the regulator, and the owner of nearly half a million diesel cars in America, and the German car giant was obliged to start buying those cars that had these softwares that cheated on the eco-tests. The diesel fuel that has been fuelled by the reduction of the EU's tax as green is precisely the kind of financial policies that should have been used by environmentalists, and in the end, what they have done is used by consumers. It turned out to be a dangerous air pollutant, making it undesirable. Not long after Volkswagen's confessions came the results of testing other car companies that pointed to similar failures, and the problem was extended to the production of other technologies, and was the result of Samsung's fraud over the energy efficiency of their televisions. But what is most interesting in the entire eco-bura that was then launched is not diesel fuel, except for the obvious and necessary natural condemnation of Volkswagen's cheating for profit, which is why today we are talking about Greenwashing and green marketing this phenomenon has opened a much deeper problem that will be a fundamental problem for our future, which is the cost-effectiveness of the eco industry. Diesel cars aren't eco-freemies, and they're not God or any of my TVs, and what now? We may be able to choose other televisions or drive by alternative means of transport, maybe even walk. But what about other aspects of life? What's the state of organics and drinks, clothes and cosmetics? Research conducted in its own time by the Institute of Public Health “Dr. Andrija Printar’ has shown that nearly 36 articles from general use, roses and lip pens, eye pens, powders, mascara and shiners, of 114 tested were medically invalid due to the illicit presence of lead, which we did not know of course. And where now? So are we going to the pharmacy for five times the cost of eco cosmetics? Volkswagen's case is important because he pointed out the Greenwashing case and became a paradigm for such behaviour, which is that he pointed to the key fact that the eco industry is the profit industry, if not the most profitable industry that has been conducting trends in recent times. Unlike the standard industry and that's what our citizens have to be directed with, whose driver is the driver of the eco industry is fear, fear of what? Of E numbers, chemistry and chemicals, gray sky, cloudy water, or the consequence of technological progress. In fact, we'd have an unbreakable cream without it being canned, evergreen fruit without it being sprayed, the speed of a gas-free gas-free gasoline, in short, life without the consequences of life. Bombed signs of climate change, genetically modified food and the carcinogenicity of life in general, we live in fear of our own existence. That staff is recognized and commercialized. Because fear is a negative category because it is always afraid of something, eco products are not determined by gain but by lack. At the time of the technological and scientific boom, the food that must have been most important to our citizens, which I showed yesterday on the example of "gauda gatea" was requalified. One standard yogurt other than probiotic bacteria contained an entire alphabet of vitamins. In accordance with the demand for motivated fear, the offer has changed, so salami is not advertised by what it contains but by its lack of preservative. In large letters, the creams say they have no paraben, an additive that prolongs the duration and which is often associated with the formation of cancer. In general madness, even smokers who use cigarettes traditionally testify to a more casual approach to life succumb to a lack of trend, so many of them started smoking eco cigarettes without additives. This, in some naive interpretation, could be a sign of a positive trend in the awakening of a civil awareness of a responsible relationship to life that the eco does not cost and not only costs, and therefore the question of what the consequences will have and this is what Lalovac asked as a question, the implementation of these regulations at the level of the financial sector. Not only is it costing, but it costs more than a mere product at the level of what our citizens understand. So natural apples cost three times as much as plain, as cranberries, bread, vegetables. Absurd is next. The less ingredients it contains, the more it costs. Or the more ingredients it doesn't contain, the more it costs. At this rate, we can soon expect that the eco industry will very successfully charge us for empty packaging, or preserved the most harmless nothing. Wolkswagen's cars, eco salami and deodorant in a drugstore costing 100 kn, only isolated examples that represent the overture of what is coming to us. If the ecological industry is recognised as an industry that profites from fear and is therefore always a step ahead of us, is it not the basic question that it is created as a deliberate appearance of an existing that is increasingly successful in harvesting fruit where the unhealthy industry cannot? Do we help by buying expensive eco-products or by driving eco friendly cars the current status quo in which there are two sister industries, it healthy and harmful with the common goal of locating our current needs and weak points, where each of our wishes and even more each of our fears is well charged? As long as I think it's normal to pay more, what should be a prerequisite for going out on the market, health will have more than a decent price because why change the status quo? Why would genetically modified food be banned if it proved harmful for everyone if there is already an illusion of alternatives, healthy eco-food and eco-products and even an eco-financial market that is not available to everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34517	The debate is over by clubs, so let's move on to an individual debate, first to speak to the respected colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34518	Thank you very much. This very important topic in which we speak, Croatia is very potent about ecological opportunities. However, the fact is that if we talk about benchmarks, green marketing, then it's very important what are models and ways and how to control the chief administrators of the CNB and HANFA, how to control for example. The presence of dangerous glyphosate herbicide in food. In the European Parliament where 48 euros of MPs were tested and all urine had the presence of this dangerous Herbicide that is related to GMO production. Of the 48th, 48th research says that in Croatia every other man has this dangerous herbicide. I also gave the Law on the ban on the use of glyphosate and glyphosate preparations, but it was not accepted and now the law is in production. We have meaning at this point the possibility of development, here's economic development and in agricultural eco-production. However, by marketing and we have more than 400 products of GMOs, of course it pushes Monsanto through its lobbyists and in the European Parliament, of course, mostly through soy, because we know what is done mainly in South America, that soybeans are produced which are resistant, which are treated with glyphosate, and simply that soybeans come to our market when imports and meat products, mainly from pork, end up on our shelves, that harmful poison, I think, of course, which cannot be associated with human life at all, it has a great influence on both water and in Croatia, on food, drink, even in clothing, in clothing. How do you fight this and how will the CNB know what product this is about on our shelves? Until our farmers can't place their organic products and at the same time we're hypocritically disabling farming. limit seed, domestic indigenous seed in a way that we try to do it ourselves and essentially collect seed production and, of course, destroy our domestic seed, destroy our manufacturer. Here I'm talking about agricultural products, and green marketing we know that in Croatia the only thing that's the same cellophane with European products, it might be a milky chocolate, the same cellophane, is essentially the same quality except that the price is higher. We have to do everything to do that today, here I am looking at braided prosciutto, pancet Dalmatian, our products are grown from our own cultivation. But there are no pigs and what's in there we can't sell, and on the market we have Dalmatian prosciutto, I'm just saying this is just a parallel. So we import through the meat of glyphosate and how do we protect that green marketing? So we have to work on this, we have to do everything we can to make sure that from growing up, I compared the example with the pig and the prosciutto or the panchet or the roast or the towering Slavonic, we have to compare it with our domestic product and these mechanisms interest me in the respected secretary of state. How will the CNB regulator or administrator regulate it? And when we talk about sustainable development, new i.e. environmental policies, the ecological economy, then we have to be very careful here. Import lobby, colleague Rasdic mentioned, i.e. Foreign producers such as the case was the production of the Volkswagen engine, of course they will do everything to sell their products on the market, which will show them ecologically clean, and in fact it has been proven not to be so. And in that, we must protect our production, our domestic production, our domestic economies. We're a tourist country, we've got too much surface land that's raw agricultural, we're trying to work on it and the triba regulator is working on it. and finance it and these are the values. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34519	Comrade Bulj, you have three replicas, first colleague Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34520	Dear counterpart Bulj, eco-certificates are extremely important, but not all have the opportunity to obtain an eco-certification. We have seeds from the OPG and announced amendments to the Seed Act which will de facto prevent the production of seeds on the OPG precisely because those who produce it will not have the opportunity to work on its work under the current bill and perhaps that production will be extinguished. What do you think we should do to prevent such a thing from happening in practice, or how to have real green marketing, and not this fake that is misleading our citizens under quotes eco product?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34521	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34522	My fellow Members, I would agree with you that it is not enough just to prescribe regulations that are essentially in other laws that we are allegedly passing through some EU directives where we are essentially limiting the production of seeds and the use of seeds in our OPGs that are also being beaten. And other countries have come to an end and said that our OPGs that have 100,000 will fail, and in this way we will gather the production of seeds where they will do it, where they will do it, so my peasant from Sinj who has OPG in the Sinjsko field will go to Varazdin, that he will do that seed. So it only collects seed and, of course, it's a coup against the OPGs, it's an import lobby, and that's why we and as a club of MOST, together, and you and I have asked to withdraw this harmful law that suits import lobbys, which puts the last nail into the coffin of the Croatian village and peasant, which is the basic human right to seed, domestic species.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34523	Thank you. My colleagues, Vucilović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34524	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bulj, it is evident that the Seed Act will collect production for our farmers, and we have seen the sugarcan finish, it has virtually stopped working, and in Osijek 200 workers are out of work this week. Is that Croatia's future? Is this the Slavonia project this government stands for? Ecologically green, and eventually workers on the street and tickets to Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34525	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34526	What's worse, yesterday the minister invites traders to collect sugar, so there's an even bigger blow to people, which is why I'm saying here we have to encourage domestic, domestic seed production of our own indigenous seed to make people cheaper to our production and that this product is competitive, not that we're shutting down our domestic producers as an example of sugarcane, and that import lobbys would have a margin. I'm just telling you one example, NP Plitvice Lakes, we know that the shrimp is famous and that we have visual fields like a brand, do not buy it from peasants and OPGs, defense cooperative potatoes in the face area, but they import it from Egypt and sell it for their own potato while Croatian OPGs in Lika fail. And that's it. So we're talking about implementation, we're talking about some things that are real. We in this way copying here under these lights only, in this house which the tribune would be a roof, copying laws in reality is quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34527	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34528	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with your discussion by my colleague Bulj, is it, as you yourself spoke of, unfortunately, very little promotion of Croatian indigenous domestic products which are not only this year is when interest rates fell, but we cannot forget before 5-6, 10.g. and 15 that they were interest rates of 15-20% and that and actually very difficult to distribute their products through trade chains, so there were some laws on unfair trade margins here, so I think that this is a set of some laws and about these benchmarks and about unfair trade margins, so I think it can still be done through a certain parliamentary debate and procedure legally can be encouraged and improved by the state of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34530	Dear fellow Lalovac. I agree with you that as Parliamentarians, we have an obligation to seriously discuss all segments, of interest, of margins, so we have what we have often said we have had 500 fees and commissions, the CNB 4 billion kuna has taken from our farmers, economics and us. Four billion, not interest, but commissions and fees, five hundred, four billion kunas a year. So we have ways and elements, the CNB didn't do its job, it didn't stop at the protection of Croatian farmers, farmers, and that's why it suspects here. That's why we have to discuss it. We are a tourist destination, we have the possibility of green production, i.e. production of our domestic indigenous products, encouraging domestic seed production, plow our fields and allow for best market placements, both Croatia and Croatia during the tourist season and in the EU as a whole. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34531	Thank you. We are now going to another individual debate, dear colleague Marija Selak Rasudiæ, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34532	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. In this individual debate, I will return to what forced us to change our legal framework and, in this sense, served as a driver for change and at EU level, then at Croatia's level, and this change regarding the financial sector is only one in a series that should create a greener Europe and the world. It's a UN conference on climate change in Paris. I will look briefly at her and the questions she has raised because these are issues that are very much about our citizens and these are issues that we should ask again each time before we adopt any legislative framework that should go ahead with time and which should be environmentally acceptable. For the first time in more than 20 years, the Paris Climate Conference aimed to achieve a legally unbound universal climate agreement aimed at retaining global warming below 2%. It attracted more than 50,000 participants, including 25 thousand official delegates, intergovernmental organisations, UN agencies, civil society and negotiators from nearly 200 countries, to work together to create a framework aimed at reducing the emissions of harmful carbon gases. So the basic problem of the Paris conference was the problem of fossil fuels, coal, oil and natural gas. The question should be kept in mind, and counterpart Zekanovic puts the question on the trail, and this issue will constantly arise in public debates and that question, whatever we think of it, the interest of both Croatia and all the other public is that skeptics question the very idea of global warming. The basic question that arises when we talk about global warming, but also about all the data that we are dealing with today and on the basis of which we make these decisions, who is funding research? This is generally one of the biggest problems in science today. So here I don't mean to relativise global warming, but I mean to point out that when we list any scientific relevant data today, especially that have wider implications for the market, we have to ask ourselves if this is the same market that financed these research. What we're interested in is that laity can hardly understand the complexity of climate change, that it's obvious that this time countries that, not only in terms of environmental pollution, but wars and all the other ones that don't build but also in this world are destructive. It raises the question to what extent such conferences contain credibility or some of the leaders of such events is eco-awareness a new way to collect profits through green technologies, therefore, because eco costs. Eco costs a lot more than just an industry. But what I want to focus on is that we keep asking ourselves who's going to suffer more because of climate change? Will it be poor or rich? To what extent it is political, not just an ecological issue, and therefore should be discussed in parliament. In fact, developing countries have no technology or can afford it, and on the other hand, the question of Western responsibility that moves industry to the east because it's cheaper. Of course, the issue raised here was the issue of Croatian green policy, that we speak one thing, and we do another, we also talked about the Plomin C thermal power plant on imported coal, research and exploitation of the Adriatic for oil. The issue of guilt and responsibility, in which way, we asked the question of financial markets, but also in general? Large countries need to bear a higher burden because they are larger contaminants. Is that how we share the burden of climate change or are we all going to submit one universal regulation as we do now? Of course, the question of an alternative that we don't even discuss at all, are we going to focus on renewable energy sources, which we are now trying to do, or perhaps even nukes, in which it predicates, say, France, in which summit was held at the time? In 2013, 19% of the world's total electricity generation was produced by nuclear power plants. They're more environmentally acceptable, but they have a big waste issue. Is our fear of nuclear power plants irrational? Just like a plane that's safer than a car, but we're more afraid of them. Of course, the question is eco-aktivism, its potential aggression, which sometimes leads to counterproductive effects. Yeah, but how do you warn about change? The basic question is, are we able and willing to think about responsibility for future generations? Whether or not we're even concerned about the fact that the Earth is going through 100 years without resources? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Can We Follow the Principle of Caution And the ethics of fear? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34533	You've got replicas, so you can stay here. So, fellow Bull, you're first, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34534	Thank you very much. You mentioned colleagues, energy, renewables. Of course, they can sometimes be harmful to Croatian citizens, but I would say one problem. One problem Croatia cannot hear, and the Mosta Club has proposed. It's the microsolars law. Croatia uses less solar energy, given to God, which we have, than Finland. At this point, we spend huge funds on heating to our families that are socially endangered, to invest that money on renewable sources, i.e. For solar energy, to microsolare, these people would be solved and those families would be energy independent. And as we give incentives to foreign wind power companies, to invest that money in solar power plants on roofs, all over Croatia, every facility would have these microsolares, energy and would be. an independent family. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34535	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34536	I agree with you, colleague Bulj, that our core focus should be on a self-sustaining individual, not society as a whole. A step above that is the individual who will be able to use renewable resources to make himself energy efficient and thus contribute to environmental protection. So, we haven't really had a serious public debate in the public space about microsolars yet, we've suggested it within our own program, but there's no hearing about it today. At times, more advanced individuals appear, even in Zagreb, and more on the coast that have already seen the advantages of microsolars, but it is necessary to think systematically through different policies, particularly this financial one, at the level of the state that will allow this practice to spread to all our population. In a situation of serious and economic and ecological, but also various other threats, a self-sustainable individual is also a security issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34537	Second replica, fellow Shimičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34538	I'd like to thank the president of HS, my dear colleague. You were talking about excessive CO2 emissions in the world. So who do you think is to blame for the CO2 emissions and how to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs change technology to produce healthy food= since we are a tourist country and that we have an extremely important ecologicality, that we care about the clean environment, that it is important and clean sea, because tourism is an extremely important branch for us, and without tourism we would actually be in serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34539	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34540	So, on the one hand, there are always state policies that should make it possible for different incentives to gain some kind of fair advantage for those who use environmentally acceptable products, but what is there is crucial that we do not turn away from what I tried to warn in my exhibitions, which is the nature of the industry, to allow additional profits to those who did not deserve it. We need to fight to answer all these questions about the ecological standard, or the prerequisite for going to the market, and not something that can or does not have to be on the market, on which we will be able to reward, punish, or someone will profit from it. Especially in Croatia where we still have to work hard on the minds of individuals because you have now asked the question of the tourist season, and there would be a lot to say about how we manage our waste during the season. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34541	Thank you. Here, you can proceed immediately and finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, again, so colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34542	So here, I'm going to go back to what we were supposed to talk about here. These are low-carbon investment strategies and low-carbon reference values to measure the performance of investment portfolios. The problem was that different categories of low-carbon index with different levels of ambition appeared on the market. Although some benchmarks wanted to reduce the carbon footprint of the standard investment portfolio through others, only those components that contributed to achieving the 2° Celsius objective were chosen as set out in the Paris Agreement that I had looked back on. Therefore, what has happened is that many of these units of the benchmark index, despite their differences together, have been promoted as benchmarks for low carbon emissions. This is what enabled Greenwashing, or manipulative “green marketing. ” I'm sorry that we haven't had a bigger and more serious discussion here about the problem of green marketing, which is a growing problem of modern times, because it happens to us to exploit and make the capital market more acceptable and cost-effective precisely that green, ecologically, which should have been upgraded and the negative side effects of growing and non-critical capitalism should be eliminated. So the same thing that was to be served as a means of combating the consequences of non-critical capitalism appeared as something that had moved forward with it and which had just become a profit industry. We're really bombed by the ecological today. We are today in a way that is both valued and forced to buy ecologically, to drive ecologically and to fight for ecologically, if we want to be aware of citizens. It would all make sense, and it would be very useful if we really built an ecologically more acceptable environment. But what's going on? We are talking about the classification of waste, we have implemented ways of sorting waste and into our school systems, children grow up and with different shows that show them how to behave in terms of waste disposal, and in practice everything we classify ends together in our ecological bomb here next to Zagreb called Jakushevac or anywhere else at Croatia's level. So, with us, it is still as common as the debates in this House, the exercise of ecological or exercise of democracy. We, even the ecological ones that we try to implement at some levels, never end up, which is the case in waste classification, so that we can benefit from it and the positive consequences of it in practice. What I want to conclude, to remind you once again, is that this is not just a debate on indices used as benchmarks, let a dry debate, away from citizens' eyes, about a subject that sounds irrelevant. This is a debate on the key issue of our present that will even enable us to create a healthy future. It's a debate on how to make the Earth environmentally acceptable and debate how to destroy the appearance of this environmentally acceptable, which is manipulative green marketing, and that's where I'm going to point what I think is key. Once again, as long as it is not an ecological condition to go out on the market at all levels, but only one option with which to be allowed and can be manipulated on the market, we will only have a barren attempt to obtain eco-profits, less and less like, and more and more of the real face of the eco industry, whose victims we all are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34543	... It didn't sound like it, ma'am. [[Specially enabled.]] Sandra Bencic, green-left block final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34544	Thank you. So, stopping climate change, green reindustrating the Earth with the imperative of creating quality and well-paid jobs, as well as establishing a circular economy, are key social and political and economic challenges that await us in the next 15 to 20 years. These challenges, if they are managed by the state and given clear and unequivocal guidelines for development and green industry and the green economy, can be the greatest opportunity for the development and modernisation of this Earth that we have ever seen and the opportunity that we will certainly not have, if we end up as losers of the green transition. When I say that the state needs to manage these challenges, then we're actually setting and... a clear requirement to give up the idea that only the market will solve everything, that green transformation can be made based on individual ventures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that the state should only give a financial or regulatory framework, it just isn't and it's just not enough. And the green transformation doesn't mean what's most often said here, the ecological dimension. It has a significant economic dimension, a significant transformative dimension, and also a dimension in which the financial sector will then have to play a different role than it has so far because the transition to a circular economy that we talk about so much here, and very often with that concept, it actually means the end of the consumer society. The consumer economy we're used to. Buy, use, throw. In such a society and in such an economy, yes, the financial sector will have a more significant and much more regulated role than it is now. This regulation is also an attempt to put the financial sector in the service of green transformation and to regulate itself in some ways. But what I am coming back again is what is the role of us as legislators and what is the role of the state in this process? We, for example, believe that we should have already made a detailed assessment of the impact of the whole Green Plan and of the green transformation on certain existing industrial sectors, an assessment of the lack of production capacity for the needs of the green transition, which we do not have, which we do not produce, what will we have to import? Because these billions that we're pummeling here, I repeat again, will go to imports of goods and services, if we're not going to use direct public investment to secure domestic production of these goods and services. Of course, the question arises how will we get the financial sector to invest in this. It's a key problem. Why? Because the capital market does not have a specific, how can I say, tendency to invest in what is long-term and which has perhaps stable yields, but not large and is not highly profitable and fast-profit activity. And green re-industrialisation and what it offers is certainly not or should be fast money on which the capital market is used to. And what in this sense would be our proposal, in order to meet these objectives and realise these challenges that we have talked about, is that the state must also provide investment potential, not only from EU funds, but we should define as a state what strategic branches we want to invest in, set up an investment fund in which we will also enable citizens who have savings, on which they have no contributions, have 220 billion savings in banks, without any contributions and benefits, as well as pension funds that have 110 billion, which also have no place to invest, but in bonds, because we do not have long-term stable projects in which they can invest and thus actually combine public investment in order to mobilise the potential and private investments and small investors, as well as individual citizens, that we all participate together in green transformation. It's the only way we're gonna make it. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34545	And finally, Mr. Secretary of State, Stjepan Curaj of the Ministry of Finance, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34546	I would like to thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, and your MPs. A brief look at the exposures, as well as the so far, the distinguished representative Vuciilović, has therefore become a problem with what has become of me thinking that more or less about all the Green Marketing issues, of course what we are talking about here right now is the financial market, of course it also appears at EU level itself, the notion of green watering or advertising without actual supported data, general thesis only, eco friendlyly, etc., which implies this notion of green marketing. This has expanded the subject of consumer protection, which is not directly related to these changes and additions, but all on the same trail of green policy. As for the share in the market and the ecologically responsible investment, we unfortunately do not have such a classification and defined what is involved in sustainable investments so that they can be monitored higher than that of your replica, of course, but it has not been possible so far because right now with this we are creating certain conditions directly transposing this regulation which is in force di we are determining which supervisory bodies, who are administrators, how they can, what administrators should do, in which way all actors can be classified on financial markets and to get exactly that and to be able to actually do a little better and to monitor them more effectively. Of course, the whole theme is questions and green marketing and why we are doing this, precisely to bring order to the market to prevent and manipulate these very classifications that something green, environmentally, is acceptable to the environment without real data and that it would practically go towards financing such same projects on some perhaps incorrect basis. So, this is generally seen, here we have limited ourselves only to the issue of protection or only to the question of the financial sector, so first of all, what is related to those opening statements, which I said, our institutions that first control it, which are working on financial markets and all the other participants. Otherwise, this Regulation is part of a pact of these legislative acts that actually makes up a taxonomy regulation, where, of course, a regulation on the publication of data may be much more important, where we are about to receive these particulars, so that they have information on sustainability itself. But to go back to the debate, therefore, the distinguished representative Zekanovic has troubled the Paris Agreement. As far as the sea's historical level is concerned, he pointed out a certain thesis of proportionate acceptance of certain measures in line with our role at world level, I think it is de facto and proportionate in its country, so everyone has to be limited to what it has, it cannot be required of Croatia to reduce emissions in absolute numbers when it's not even there, so it can only be a percentage and we can accept it, de facto we already have. This is a subject that is a little bit more or less in the debate went a lot wider, this is a lot of professional topics that talk about benchmarks or indices used in determining some basic values for calculating certain financial data as we have had opportunities and hear and it is difficult to plastic in which way it has an aspect, however, I think we all understand in which direction we want to go, of course, about environmental protection issues. Which is why we can absolutely agree with the question of administrators that we need this way and expect, in addition to those which are listed, the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the CNB itself, to expand here and to register others who will provide accurate, accurate, scientifically based data, to have some reference value in relation to these conventions or the Paris Agreement itself that we are introducing here as some Benchmarking that should be used to show whether certain investments, certain societies in this sphere are in place. Of course, the integration of ecology with tourism is absolutely clear, which is the respected representative of Lalovac and mentioned finally, that exactly the largest benefit of all of this is according to the investments, according to the funds, according to the investments, according to the incentives that what is really at the level of these benchmarks, that there is also more favourable funding and that it also encourages with the ultimate goal. Dear Representative Kliman also pointed out that this issue and reflection is now the very future of the country and the comparative advantages that we have in Croatia, especially with the integration, with existing already European funds, we know how much funds have been allocated and billions are left available to Croatia precisely with the purpose of this green policy or green policies, of course and certain reforms. Dear Representative Selak Rasdić, therefore, as regards the fundamental issue and climate change itself, the general state of course and again of the problem of the issue of green marketing itself, where the example of a more or less specific competing car manufacturer is, it also falls within the consumer sphere, is not in the financial sector, but this is one small part that we want to prevene, transpose itself to the financial sector itself, so it can be very nice to subscribe to these examples that are not only respected MPs, but more or less all MPs have also, the distinguished representative Bulj mentioned about domestic producers, for eco-certifications, so this is exactly what it is in the simplest way that citizens could understand these in the financial sector, the values have their own pan-day, or could somehow be influenced by the work. As regards the description itself and the assessment of the situation, which was pointed out by the distinguished representative Selak Rasudić, so we are working with the data available to us from sources or from our regulatory bodies, so above all the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the CNB, so as I said, we do not have a classification of activity based on whether or not someone is eco- or not, so we cannot know exactly what the scope of the environmental friendly and sustainable investments in Croatia themselves is, this is also the goal of allowing such benchmarks and notes based on authorised administrators, meaning legal or natural persons who have applied specifically to HANFAs to carry out specific analyses and studies to satisfy a certain reference value, have, therefore not generally, not through fog, but precisely to identify this particular market in this particular case. And finally, the esteemed representative Bencic, therefore, as far as green and transition itself is concerned, of course, and the role of a country that needs to be greater and impossible to finance only the market, of course it is recognised by the European Commission, and that is why all of this is done and through the promotion of exactly investment and through certain funds that are listed. The proposal that, in fact, as a sublimation of everything at the end, to turn a little not only to the EU funds but also to the own fund that will indicate it, is certainly something that could be considered but I also believe that through certain subsidies that go from both national components and... financing is always something that works and implements through the Environmental Protection Fund, which is not only funded by European means but also has that component which... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] financing the collection of certain fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, I would only still present information related to regulatory bodies that have done research from the level of the European Commission dealing with consumer protection, so 28. 1st came out last, precisely on the basis of this green marketing although not directly related to our financial sector, was supervised by 344 entities. And then they say in research that more than 50% did not provide enough information for consumers to support the accuracy of their data, 37% of them used general statements and claims, so these words that I said sustainablely, eco friendlyly, etc. and 59% did not provide easily verifiable and available evidence of their claims. In general, 42% of them are considered to have unfounded claims and this is actually the reason not only in this why they started in these EU-level regulations and we de facto only embed them into our legislative framework, but that this is a question and what I said and those certain regulations, 6 packages of in fact of all laws and published data and of taxonomy, so all that will be involved not only in the financial market, this is one small segment but I also believe it is important and that it follows all the trends that are important in the policy that we have determined and which I have initially said something more. So, in conclusion, this is complex matter, it's hard to pass on to citizens through the pay phone here, but it's something that's certainly in the perspective of potentially good for Croatia for all the reasons put forward, and something that we will certainly try from the level of the financial sectors to be properly and well applied, and that we all ultimately benefit from it, and that, in particular, all those who invest in certain values in terms of reference value, in achieving benchmarks, to have and benefit in terms of funding from a safer way of collecting the funds themselves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34547	You have replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34548	Thank you very much. Reference values, of course, that there are the most important administrators, namely HANFA and the regulatory agency and the CNB, however, did not show much protection, so I immediately suspect this whole story, I would like it in reality to be protected by domestic producers, mainly domestic environmental producers, not only them but all of our OPGs, but we see here that this law is in contradiction with the law where it will lead to our peasants being left without their seeds because they do not have the ability to process, i.e. collect seeds for domestic production. All the laws should be directed towards our people, our peasants, our entrepreneurs, but neither the regulatory agency nor those who would be worried about sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia, in fact they have never worked in the interest of so far, so I hope this will be one step, but I doubt it, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34549	Thank you very much. Mr. Chury, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34550	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Bulj, therefore, you mentioned the agencies or just to supplement, so for us, for this topic of this segment, which has a really broader impact on the general view of the concept of green marketing which has been problemed here but generally green policies, surely recognizable to the general public, here on the very part of the financial sector, HANFA as a supervisory body which is currently being implemented by the administrator, we have two registered, the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the CNB itself that regulates the national reference rate. This remains a package of broader laws and regulations which will be adopted and which are in force and which also apply to the Ministry of Economy, consumer protection, agriculture, environmental protection and a number of other bodies that implement and provide for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34551	- Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34552	Dear Proposer, we have now heard an interesting fact that in almost 42% of citizens are hunting in the murky and that so far they have been able to make such regulations possible. I would like to appeal once again to get a clear analysis of the situation in Croatia, including here when we talk about something that may be more abstract for the citizens of the financial market as regards all these concepts mentioned as green marketing, so that we can have a reasoned debate on why we are now implementing this regulation or translate it into our legislative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34553	Thank you. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34554	Thank you, Your Honor. So, according to my knowledge and ours, we don't have the appearance of green marketing among the financial sector, but that doesn't mean we can't prevent it. So we're not doing this just because she made Europe and it's none of our business, sure that we can be something and benefit from other people's experiences even though they say that smart people learn from their mistakes, I'd say that we can be a little bit smarter and learn from others. So this is certainly something that can't help us and certainly nothing bad will bring us, however, we can certainly be a step ahead and just go to that goal that we've all set ourselves up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34555	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34556	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I'm not surprised you don't know what part of the socially responsible investment is and what doesn't have that information, but here, if you'll allow one suggestion. In fact, the report on non-financial transactions today makes a relatively small number of economic operators in accordance with the directive which obliges them to do so and which we have transposed into our legislation. No one prevents us from expanding this number of medium-sized economic operators because the European Commission is thinking about it, and we know that the stock exchanges are out there looking for basic financial reports and non-financial reports or non-financial indicators reports and there is no reason why we should not provide potential investors with those data by adapting our legislation and we will have that information in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34557	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34558	Thank you. So what you would say here, the aspect of volunteering, because surely be, I mean make sure that there was a lot more of us here that was something mandated and that we prescribed another obligation for entrepreneurs and actors on the financial market that they had to meet and maybe they don't need. Therefore, to be classified, to do certain analyses, to get these benchmarks and indices and they neither intend to go to the capital market nor to seek financing. So we need to be very careful here because we can fall into a trap with good intentions to prescribe a good part of the economy for certain costs, human engagement and in general, a kind of parafiscal additional burdens in order to meet certain conditions. So that's enough with good intentions, we have to balance it right, so this applies to those who want to get that more favourable funding, to decide whether it's worth it or not, and surely we have to stimulate what you said and we can agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34559	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this is where you need to be very clear. The CNB and HANFA won't be the administrators of this, as I understand it, they'll be overseeing the administrator. Because it is certain that HANFA and HNB will not measure CO2 emissions in assets, that it is not their and regular, in that part of the function, so CNB and HNFA will not operate operationally, they will monitor the administrator who will ultimately have to prove to them as a regulator on the financial market, as they measure it. Now, my question is, that's probably, you said there is in Europe, so maybe by the next time you read it, you could bring it closer to us as it is done in European countries and whether these foreign administrators, administrators in European countries, because they already have a methodology, that they will have a methodology for working together because it's probably not a simple job, because it's based on scientific indicators, whether they will have access to the Croatian market and perhaps for the Croatian market they administer such data. Here, maybe until the next reading, maybe in that sort of context, you could give us some more information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34561	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34562	Thank you. So in the existing regulation that we're changing here, so as far as art is concerned. 34. where it writes when it refers to the authorisation and registration of the administrator, so that it may be a natural and legal person located in the Union, it should only be registered, therefore submitted as administrator of the application to the competent authority referred to in Article. In the 40th and so on, that's HANFA specific. So the answer to your question is certainly that anyone who is registered in the Union will be able to provide this, but must be registered and listed here. Of course, ESMA, as a roof authority that controls the otherwise financial market and the capital market, is the one that collects all data and national regulators, so that this applicant actually provides all the necessary information to ensure that at the time of the authorisation, the competent authority has all arrangements for meeting the requirements laid down by the conditions set out in the Regulation adopted in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34563	And at the end of the day, It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34564	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, so it actually fascinates us that some parties are constantly questioning everything that is being brought here, as one proposal that actually takes care of all of us and as a country and as our future orientation, allows us to have and in one way prevents us from creating better conditions, given that we first need to take care of our own production, green production, sustainable production, and just in a way that we are in a position to use this contingent from the plan of repair and resilience of funds as much as possible and implement it in our own economy and let's not forget, over 6 billion grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34565	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34566	Thank you. So, not getting into certain political attitudes and ways of performing respected MPs, certainly we must always be the ones who, in a smart way, will be transposing what has been adopted at EU level, in the end of the line, and choosing European representatives and participating in the work of the European Commission itself as a full member, and it is certain that we are able to recognize all the potential dangers that can come to us, to apply what we are learning in other people's mistakes as I have said, and we certainly take advantage of all the opportunities that we are given, which are apart from, there are many more than the very financial ones that you have already pointed out. And one of these things is right over here seen in this small segment of the financial market where the average citizen has no touch or knowledge nor needs to have or must but certainly that later as we have seen the repercusions of certain crises on the financial market, they can lead to a serious economic crisis and that is the same part of the segment that we are working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34567	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas, I'll close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. It is now up to you: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, First Reading, P.Z. No. 93 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, provisions as I have already said before, first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Zarko Katić, who will introduce us to the basic characteristics of this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34570	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. In short, I will give you the basic reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law on the protection of monetary institutions has been in force since November 2015 and has prescribed protection measures in the offices of monetary institutions which prevent and prevent criminal offences, organise and implement protection aspects of business and introduce new technologies for the protection of persons and property. This law provides for protection measures specific to each type of monetary institution or pay-out device as well as for money and value distribution activities. Consistent application of the law from its beginning to date has reduced the number of criminal offences in the offices of monetary institutions from 267 to 126 offences recorded last 2020. However, by monitoring the types of crimes and the way they have been committed over the past few years, there has been a trend in the increase in the crime of heavy theft by breaking and entering ATMs. When we talk about ATMs, I would like to inform you that 34 business legal entities, owned or leased by the latest data, are operating in the Republic of Croatia, at 5,938 ATMs. Of which 1257 are internal ATMs, therefore located in bank offices or other facilities and 4681 external ATMs located outside the home offices. Of the total number that is therefore close to 6000, only 7 banks have over 90% of ATMs, so the total number of ATMs. 9 out of 34 business banks don't operate with any ATMs and 10 banks don't have external ATMs, so they don't, they're all in their offices. So as I said earlier, ATMs have seen an increase in the crime of physical assaults against ATMs, the initiation of serious thefts, the break-in by causing explosions in that device in order to bring about money-based tapes. There is also great damage to the environment, and public harassment is caused because such crimes are usually committed during the deaf nighttime and, of course, there is a great risk of hurting or hurting people. Explosive means to be used, most of all, it's gas, but since last year, it's been a significant increase in the use of explosives. The total number of criminal offences whether they were attempted or completed, so they increased from, therefore, this type of funds, so on ATMs, from 2015 when they were 8, to 2020 when they were 44. And so these are the most common crimes against the damages of monetary institutions, that is to say, by stealing, by breaking money from banks. Of these crimes mostly, about 80 to 90% were resolved. In view of the measures taken so far to protect ATMs relating to the establishment of mechanical protection measures and to the establishment of a notification and surveillance system that cannot fully prevent the taking of criminal offences by breaking in, it has been established that protection measures must be directed at the very protection of money. Therefore, for this purpose, one of the most effective systems of money protection is the electrochemical system for neutralisation, i.e. the colouring and destruction of banknotes that have been used for insurance and money accompanying operations in the Republic of Croatia since 2007, and this system of electrochemical protection has therefore completely prevented the conduct of criminal acts of vehicle misdemeanour in transport or transfer of money. I remind you, money is transported from CNB to business banks, from one business bank to another or to their offices or from other places where a larger amount of money is collected during the working day and is therefore transported in a legal manner with an armored vehicle with protection or escort to the bank vaults. Therefore, on the basis of this everything said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, aimed at introducing an electrochemical protection system into all external ATMs, namely ATMs outside the home offices of banks, and at internal ATMs in the bank’s parent offices in accordance with the established or drawn-up threat judgments. The law proposes to prescribe a five-year period in which all monetary institutions are obliged to introduce electrochemical protection into all external ATMs and, exceptionally, when a new external ATM is placed on the market or to be used by citizens or replaced by amortisation or destruction after the offence is committed, it must be equipped immediately before the application or release into operation with an electrochemical protection system. In accordance with the amendments and additions to the laws in which the mandatory application of electrochemical protection is introduced, the articles of the laws relating to the obligation to install the system shall be supplemented in accordance with the rules governing the activity of technical protection and the possession of mandatory technical documentation for those systems of prescribed content to demonstrate its regularity, functionality and compliance with norms and technical regulations. Since technologies are therefore changing and progressing, a provision is introduced allowing for the application and alternative measures to protect ATMs by means of the same or better effect on the protection of banknotes or for other security technical or organisational reasons cannot establish basic safeguard measures. In that case, the business bank, therefore the entity bound by this law, will have to seek for any such case the concrete consent of the Ministry. In relation to the material provisions, the infringement provisions in this proposal of the laws relating to Article shall also be harmonised. 42nd and 43rd of the original text of the law. Similarly, in the transitional and final provisions, the time limit for the establishment of protection measures and the time of entry into force of the law shall be laid down. Therefore, respected MPs and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this law to increase the security of citizens and their property and to prevent one specific type of criminal offence, so on ATMs, which were generally operated by explosive means or gas and which led to significant property damages, but also to greater public harassment. We believe that the amendments to the law or the establishment of these measures will, within the intended time limit, reduce those offences or completely cease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34571	Thank you, too. You have a series of replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34572	Thank you very much. State Secretary, the protection of financial institutions, that is, in this case ATMs with certain chemical fluids or I don't know everything, although this and financial institutions are protected as bear in the Republic of Croatia, the less people are protected by it... the money even though the triba is important to the safety and protection of our citizens, of course not to happen to the worst. However, whether these laws include financial institutions by clubs as well as in Slavonska 9 di are distributed money and numbers in unlimited amounts stolen from the people, so that they would also protect one and the other because they are essentially working against the interests of the people and financial institutions, unfortunately supported by the Croatian National, International Bank and, of course, by illegal clubs such as the Janaf club in Slavonska 9 where they had a counter with money. Is there any kind of chemical tribune?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34573	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34574	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I will repeat that the purpose of this law is prevention. Prevention is always the best remedy against criminal acts and any punishable or unacceptable behavior. I will repeat again, the electrochemistry has been introduced and is mandatory since 2007 at the transfer and transport of money, so out on the roads while the money is loaded and driven from one institution to another or business, and the whole of the robbery and crimes on those vehicles have ceased. We also believe that when the perpetrator is aware that he will not be able to reach his prey, that he will be destroyed, that he will not be aware that he will not be able to reach his prey, that he will be destroyed, that he will not attempt to commit these crimes, and that is the fundamental intensity of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34575	Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34576	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. You told us what the number of these external ATMs is, and now given the costs of installing the systems of this electro-chemical protection, so the price of equipment, organisational and other activities, do you have any idea how much that protection is going to cost per ATM, that's the first part, and the second part, so at the moment of the attack, gas, explosions, I guess that permanent and instantaneously happening that coloring and destroying bills, and whether that system recognizes the situation that we've had in the event of an earthquake, means that it's a violation of the static, i don't know, is going to fall any piece of the wall, does that system recognize it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34577	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34578	Your Honor, Madam Representative. As for the funds, it will certainly represent one fixed financial obligation for the banks, however, we hold that security is more important, but more importantly, I have said this before, a five-year deadline has been left to replace all these ATMs, the bank will have to give a certain timeline to do so, so we will monitor them not to be, not to wait four-and-a-half years, and then everything is working at the last minute and that during that time this risk of theft, heavy theft and burglary continues, but technology is progressing so that the prices of these systems are still more favourable. As far as this other question is concerned, technically, I can't answer you exactly right now, but certainly some minor, minor blow to that ATM wouldn't cause the money to be colored, but just more serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34579	Thank you. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, I was also interested in what the price and this five-year term was. I hope that in two years we will enter the European Union, then it is the issue of ATMs, then there will be no swearing but euro, means in these ATMs. Even more is actually a threat to these ATMs or some kind of value. I think it would be good to bring Croatia into line with the entry into the European Union, i.e. in the European Monetary Union, the replacement of these ATMs, because it is the financial institutions that hold the ATMs that are mostly all from the European Union, meaning that these are Austrian, Italian banks, which probably already have such protection at home, so I don't see a big problem, that when the euro in Italy is so protected that the euros in Croatia are protected already by Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34581	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34582	Your Honor. I agree, we certainly need to, and by the second reading we will consider this possibility regarding the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Monetary Union. The banks, I have to be honest, don't take it very well and ask for longer deadlines to coordinate or try to suggest some other, I guess cheaper ways for them. However, as you said, if this system works in other countries, we do not see why it would not work in the Republic of Croatia and until the final proposal of the Law is prepared, we will see whether this deadline is optimal or should be shortened or if it remains in this length to introduce an explicit obligation to replace 20% of the ATMs in each year, not to wait for the last moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34583	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34584	Your Honor, Secretary of State. There are currently over 5.5 thousand ATMs in the Republic of Croatia. The vast majority of these ATMs are in large cities along the Adriatic coast, especially during the tourist season. Unfortunately, very few machines are in small areas, rural areas, because the vast majority of banks don't want to put their ATMs in small areas, simply because of their default. I don't know how much, maybe this isn't exactly the best topic right now, but I think that in total negatively, it has a very negative effect on those spaces, even in demographically, in the end, and how much it could in some way encourage banks to put these ATMs in those areas, which would significantly facilitate and improve living conditions in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34585	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34586	Your Honor. It is certainly also good in some small environment that it is not necessary to go to some city maybe ten kilometers away to raise money, but it is normal and understandable that banks place ATMs where there are many people in big and bigger cities, in tourist centres, so there have often been talks in our public lately about how ATMs have to fit better in the building environment, because in some coastal places they often reward the most beautiful buildings in these cities, because of course they go to the users, where a large number of users, citizens or tourists, are being placed there. We banks can't force them to put ATMs where they don't get paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34587	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34588	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Namely, here is the pandemic of the Corona virus that has in one way justified the existence and use of ATMs in view of this distance that is needed between people and in this way proves that ATMs are needed and that as such they will surely survive as banks thus reduce their costs, because they have less and less business and more ATMs. This is exactly what the robbers and those who want to do it are trying to demote, and in this way it would really contribute to security and such transactions, and I think that within five years we'll recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34589	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34590	That's right, ma'am. This is primarily for the safety of the citizens. Maybe we should have reacted faster, but we followed the security situation and what actions in handling the cash are the most critical, where the greatest danger is. And now we think this is the rest of the area that needs to be arranged. Banks certainly pay off ATMs, as citizens themselves serve, no space or bank officials and the entire infrastructure should be used. So that number will certainly grow more and more, and we must do everything possible to make their use, or existence safe for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34591	Mr. Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34592	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Whenever there's a story of potential or possible attacks on bank ATMs and other monetary institutions, there's always media and interesting stories that are accompanied by some headlines of spectacular robbery, so some kind of chase. Well, here we have seen and heard from your opening statement, from the material that the actual number of attacks on money-carrying vehicles, cash, that the number of attacks on bank offices has decreased, something increased to ATMs, so please inform me, maybe it's not closely related to this right now. But as we stand here with the number of attempted robbery of a guy at gas stations, exchange offices, bookshops, casino clubs and so generally little. Is that where we grow, we fall, what are the numbers in general in that part?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34593	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34594	Dear Mr. Representative, criminals certainly follow the introduction of new measures and don't go where it's a little bit certain that money will get either physically, so that it will succeed in kidnapping him or that when they take him, he will be usable and whole. So this may be the best way of electrochemistry, where the one who has a bad idea knows that even when he manages to get the money that he won't be used. So there is no risk for some third parties such as sellers, merchants, bank officials, etc. So, the number of crimes against banks is significantly reduced, and in the transfer and transport of money has stopped practically, gone, and there is therefore electrochemistry and it is certainly due for it. But the number of criminal offences against other institutions, i.e. legal persons, where cash business is existed, and where it is increasing. So now you're going to places where there may be less money but it's easier to get to it and that's where we have to find a way to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34595	White boy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34596	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Secretary. As far as I'm concerned, the urgency of this bill is to protect citizens first of all, not to protect banks. Because if the banks wanted to protect themselves they wouldn't wait or try to extend a certain thing to five years how you gave them a deadline, so I'm asking you a question why is it coming back to the banks? So citizens should be first. If the state, or legislator, wants to protect citizens, then let us not set deadlines of five years, then give it a month. The more the same systems certainly the same banks as Mr. Lalovec said they have where their home countries are, or their owners. So let's not set deadlines. Let's protect the citizens as soon as possible. What kind of deadlines? Then we'll do it, so come on, please! Well, he'll never make it, he'll wait for the last minute. That's very clear. So, you need to protect the property of citizens and you need to legally not only force banks to do it, but you need to legally force banks to secure the property of citizens in all cases of theft from cyber robberies that are not told at all. So until then, this is the kind of thing you were talking about. [[Thank you, Mr. Beljak.]] So let me finish my sentence, Mr. Radin. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Well, you keep interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34597	Oh, no, no. I'm not interrupting you, I'm interrupting your chronometer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34598	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, we at the Ministry of the Interior would be the happiest of course to see that the banks themselves are at great risk and that it is certainly some kind of negative advertising if their ATMs break, rob, and of course there is a great risk of the loss of some random passerby or innocent victim. However, we did not welcome this decision, to commit them and, of course, to impose appropriate sanctions. However, we must be aware of both you and each of us that it is impossible to do so. This month's deadline is absolutely unreal for 6,000 ATMs. But if this deadline that we've given is still the best we're going to do, so we're here to hear your opinion, to hear the opinion of the general public, and we're going to decide to refer to the final bill of law that's the most optimistic rock of the month, two days is physically impossible to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34599	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34600	Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. So I have heard the word “we would be the happiest. ” We're legislators. So we've got the happiest thing to do with something. We have to force them. We do not have "we would be the happiest" if Croatia were the richest country in the world. We must make legal frameworks so that it is, legal frameworks that banks behave just as they behave in Italy, Austria, Germany, and not "we would be the happiest". This is what representatives of colonies say, not sovereign states such as Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34601	You know I have to give you a warning no, because it's a replica. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34602	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you have stated that the law requires the possibility that, instead of this intended protection, an electrochemical alternative could be allowed to be replaced, so I would like to know if the banks decide on such a variant who will and by what criteria assess whether this replacement protection is appropriate to this one. Because it's in our best interest to protect our citizens so that it's adequate, not just cheaper protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34603	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34604	Dear Madam MPs certainly explicitly writes an alternative must be equally quality and efficient or better than that, the authorised legal person will make up appropriate documentation or emborate. This will be determined by means of a more detailed sublegal act. But in any case, it comes to the approval of the Ministry of the Interior where all segments and police will, and inspectors in charge of the supervision of monetary institutions, assess whether that protection is better or not. In nature, such attempts are not always approved in practice, but only when they are found to be equally effective or more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34605	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34606	Your Honor, it's actually a similar question. So are you, besides this kind of electrochemical protection, which is primarily focused on money protection or money coloring, but it often doesn't color all the money in these explosions, and yet some amount of money is being used later, is it used by thieves, so have you thought about any other systems that protect both the property itself and prevent, say, these attacks by an explosion of gas that actually prevents that explosion from happening at all if the gas comes into the ATM? There are such systems and technologies, have you considered them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34607	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34608	Dear Madam MPs, so this system is not meant to protect money but to actually destroy money in a certain box. So the intention is that whoever has such an intention to take someone else's money to know that they won't get it right, and basically these systems are so designed to destroy money entirely. Very difficult or rare can happen to be partially preserved. Of course, there are already other systems of protection against those simplest as these ATMs have to be anchored into the floor. So no one can carry it, that's why they're doing these explosions. There are systems that counter-invasion, counter-inflicted, and even 24 hours of surveillance over that ATM to see who came and what he tried to do. It's all there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34609	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34610	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the law is passed you said for the sake of greater security of citizens and property and it is in any case to welcome you. I might have a problem with the number of these ATMs here because we practically now have in every neighborhood a couple of ATMs and do you think reducing the number of ATMs would actually reduce the challenge for potential thieves? And secondly, will it, suppose, happen that at 10 or 20 ATMs, break in and disrupt the money market in such a way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34611	You, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34612	Agent, there have already been questions but actually the opposite of being the number of ATMs bigger. We leave it to the market because we can't do either, so we can't defend it by some measures, and we can stimulate other than this security in another way I can't think of. So, we think it's a good thing that ATMs exist that there are more and more citizens at the service, that their money be at their service 24 hours a day for 7 days a week, not that they have to wait for the office to open. Those who live in smaller places know that businesses often work less hours or possibly 8 hours, so those people who don't work in that place can't even raise money. So, they have to, it's not always time for citizens. ATMs are a good tool so citizens can use their money whenever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34613	And in the end, Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34614	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State it is clear that today in the Republic of Croatia ATMs have become the most valuable source of almost money and therefore there are nearly 6 thousand or slightly less. However, here I think it is important to think again for 5 years, and in 2023, the introduction of the euro is expected to automatically lead to significantly higher value in the safes of these ATMs, which is a challenge in its own way. But do we already have this type of electrochemical protection in place today, and what effect does it have?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34615	Your Honor... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34616	Mr. Representative, so we have him as mandatory in transporting and transfering money, that's what I said. So there were a number of crimes in the middle of the last decade there about 2005, 6, 7 that occurred on the streets or in the parking lots of malls or in front of banks while the money was being exported or imported and, of course, caused great public anxiety and there could have been serious consequences for the safety of the citizens and therefore it came. By quick reaction and by amending the law by prescribing the obligation to introduce electrochemistry, I repeat another number of criminal offences or crimes have ceased completely and this is a good solution for ATMs as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34617	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, Croatian Sovereigns' Club. ... It's in the other room. [[You don't understand.]] No, I don't. He's losing his right. Mr. Boris Lalovac in front of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Right away, let's say that the SDP Club will support this bill. We consider it a good intention to protect Croatian citizens related to the use of ATMs is most often when certain alienation of these ATMs appears to be a number of material damage, and unfortunately sometimes some human lives because most often through this as you have said some explosive means, these ATMs are being robbed. But what led us to this crisis of covida, what did it lead us to? She made us use more money from the ATM. and that is why it is another appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect all transactions of Croatian citizens who can no longer go into those lines on the business bank counters, so there are several rows and the CNB has made a recommendation to the business banks to cancel the fees for the use of money from ATMs, it seems to me that, even we have discussed it in the Parliament to abolish fees that citizens can freely at the time of covid when they can't access the bank's counter because there are lines, because there are actually there to actually use ATMs. And when more citizens use these ATMs, we don't know how long and how long it will last, so we have to protect the property, and ultimately we protect Croatian citizens. And that's why this five-year term, like you did, and I'm glad that you said that you're gonna have to think about it, and because of this covid, is more citizens now going to ATMs than businesses. I agree in that part where you said that you would consider having to discuss that Croatia's entry into the EU, and I think that this is the most elegant solution, the most elegant and that you can't have the banks here either, that there can't be a commission, no one can object to you saying that Croatia's entry into the EU on 1.1, now I'm saying 2014, we want a single European market to be used in the Croatian euro, to be protected as in Germany, and there's no one to tell you that you told him, offered him that he must be in the EU for three years, because... all of this left alone could be five, we could be seven, we could be three, we could be, etc. Is it all some kind of contract? So we want on the market when the euro comes to Croatia to make all these ATMs, is it going to be much more valuable to that ATM itself, to say from that day on that ATM that doesn't have that protection can't work, very simply, can't work, you don't have protection. As much as we can't walk today if we don't have protection, I don't see the difference that if that ATM can't get in, there's 6,000 of them going to be 4,000, they're going to be doing 5,000, so they can't work if they have to use the euro, use the security, especially because all of these countries, all of these banks are seven, so 20% of the banks are holding 90% of the ATMs, 20% of the banks. What kind of banks are these? It's the first seven banks to be head of Italian and Austrian ownership. At their home in Vienna, Milan, they have this protection, they have protection for the euro. You are doing business in the Republic of Croatia, this is a single European market, and that is all we are talking about in the Single European Market. If there is a single European market in Vienna and Italy, then there is a single European market in Croatia and there is no one to complain about, there is no one who has no anger... etc., you do not have a single European market unless there is no ATM and can not work. You have a very simple solution and no one can give you anything, not as far as the commission is concerned, or as far as this proposal is concerned, because we insist on being unique on the European market, to be an equal member. And I don't think there's any reason for those who object or any way through their home countries to put any kind of pressure on Croatia not to establish it. So especially when you see the concentration of ATMs, when you see the concentration of 21% of the ATMs is located only in the City of Zagreb, 21%, and 14% of the ATMs in Split County, etc. By county means in Dalmatia somewhere around 50% of all ATMs are located. And in the end, why are there ATMs most in Dalmatia? For tourism or for security purposes in the final and these European citizens who come to the Croatian market is no longer carrying cash with them and when they come from outside countries carry cards, carry cards, use ATMs, especially more I say if they are covid they will use these ATMs and there will be danger to this as well as to... greater danger to these ATMs. And we want the safety of Croatian citizens, we want the safety of Croatian tourists or European tourists on Croatian soil, a very simple story. If you can't make it very easy for the banks to ask them to respect the regulation of the European market and I don't think you have any objections that anyone can dispute that part. So commendable, we will support it at the time of covid I say there is even greater pressure on ATMs, even more pressure from Croatian citizens on the use of these ATMs especially if you have information that only 28% of the ATMs in Croatia are under video surveillance, 28% of the ATMs which is not really... is not exactly a 100% level of protection. Then protecting them like this will ultimately not be able to damage property, and ultimately tourism. But don't let God think when you look at the streets in Dubrovnik when you see an ATM on an ATM and you see that when someone calculates in those ATMs that I don't know 50 or 70 ATMs, then when they calculate how much euro it is that means a huge amount of euro that's in Dubrovnik and then multiply how many citizens are walking through that space and then it's going to be serious security threats. And I think that none like Croatia as a tourist country must take very great care of the safety and safety of tourists, and I think we should bring it as soon as possible, don't God let anything happen, so he says we've had the opportunity to pass this law in the House so as soon as possible to bring that exchange of ATM, don't God let any later accidents happen, then we don't transfer ourselves that we've had the chance, and we haven't brought it in as soon as possible. So here's why we're so grateful again, thank you for thinking that you'll think about it until the second reading and we'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34619	Thank you. Now it's the House Movement Representatives' Club and the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, we often meet and we meet last night. Last night we talked about euphemism once called a mine incident. Today we're talking about another euphemism. It's probably called a bank incident. This topic is for every praise. And you and I were already talking on the parent board and I'm glad you respected the suggestion that this deadline, it was my suggestion of five years is inappropriate. My colleagues talked about it today. I don't want to repeat myself too much. In accordance with Article 5. The constitution of laws should be in favour of the citizens, or in favour of the Constitution, and then here we are talking about the desire to protect both Croatian citizens and the property of Croatian citizens, legal and physical in cases where an attack occurs on something known as an ATM. The law is called the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions and another euphemism and another beautiful thing. So it's about banks, and how the law should protect someone here even when it's being read, so I just want to point out that the additional situation is such that the law wants to protect the banks again. So not the citizens, but the banks, in one way, to enable them to do a five-year transition and to install electrochemical means of protection into these ATMs. When robbing that ATM, so that the public knows it must be damaged and the ATMs and the area in which the ATM is located, unfortunately for damage or injury, as well as more tragic consequences and people in the environment. The only one that's secure in that is always the banking system. The bank also has a secure ATM and an amount in the ATM. So absolutely nothing will happen to the banks as it has never happened to them in the history of the financial devastation of the Republic of Croatia. It is true, therefore, from the conversion of South dinars, through management loans, and then those conversions of Croatian dinars into kunas through the privatisation of banks, through the recovery of banks if you remember between 13.4 and 18 billion kunas cost the recovery of Croatian banks. And then they were sold for why and only 10% of the banking system if and 10%, Mr. Lalovac certainly knows better, is owned by Croatian legal and physical persons. And of course, this entire system is protected by the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is not a way of sovereignly protecting the monetary identity and sovereignty of any country. So, all the time, politics protects bankers and the banking system, and this string is unbreakable. This law is actually an initiative that needs to be welcomed. We will protect, protect and protect this system, protect ATMs, protect everyone but first of all we will protect people and material property of the Republic of Croatia. But how? By favouring them in a way that they can do it in five years. It was an initial proposal, so then we started talking on the board and I see that it's going towards it. But initially no one said – wait just a little, five years it means that they can in the 5th year after they're immortizing it to replace it. One reason, of course, is that the euro is being introduced, so the bank will be more damaged because there will be more money, it will be more money. Seven and a half kuna one euro, then 10 euros 75 kuna. It makes it easier for business and thieves in some way. But the bankers are protected all the time, I would even say thieves more than citizens and material assets of the Republic of Croatia. So this little situation where they'd be comfortable with it in a way that there's no conflicting replacement, there's no way in the law that there's no such thing as that. It may be in the second reading but now it's not that in the first year they have an obligation I don't know 20%, in the second next 25 or 30%, and so it changes them within 5 years, but it can happen in a way that banks use it, it happens what happens. Their property is secured. They don't care what happens around these ATMs, and then in the fifth year, there's some sort of regular way through regular business to replace that ATM and nothing epochal happens in their balance sheet. However, it continues to grow and all these money mostly ends outside the Republic of Croatia. That could also be discussed, but with some other occasion and some other topic. So, the Homeland Movement welcomes this initiative. We will certainly support her. However, our basic condition is to support it not to be 5 years, but to be more acceptable, in favour of the protection of Croatian citizens and Croatian property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34621	You, too. Then it is the Club of Representatives Mosta and Mrs. Marija Selak Rasudiæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34622	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Of course, the Mosta Club will also support this initiative because it is not in the interest of protecting the health of our citizens and their safety. In this sense, it is useful to switch to a way to protect ATMs that will make it impossible for the perpetrators to even try to break into these same ATMs, so we go to this type of protection that is already present in other ways of transporting money. However, what I would like to commend is on these amendments and the addition of the Law that we have finally received some concrete information on what is happening on the ground for a change in the assessment of the situation. So we got information on how many ATMs were attacked and how much the increase in these attacks on ATMs was compared to the actions. Therefore, until 1 November 2020. 36 crimes of heavy theft or attempted theft by breaking into ATMs, of which 34 explosions of gas or explosives. This should be a model for all other laws, if we want to talk seriously about laws then we must have a concrete assessment of the situation with relevant material data of what is happening on the ground. So the problem is obvious. I will agree with what colleagues have pointed out earlier, which is that Croatia is a tourist country and thus more endangered and exposed mainly intensively over certain periods of the year compared to other EU countries. In this sense, we will also agree with those proposals that are going towards this point, which are also highlighted in the course of public debate to reduce this 5-year deadline currently proposed by this legislative framework to go to 3 years or if we cannot go to such a thing to try to think about the security zones and places that pose a greater threat at the level of Croatia where there may be some inequality, but to force early implementation of this obligation within these ATMs because indeed not all places in Croatia are equally threatened, and not all of them are at risk in all places in Croatia. This puts an unequal relationship between an individual bank or an ATM owner, but it could be considered through various reliefs and incentives to make it possible to move quickly in some places earlier because some places are really at greater risk. It is interesting to find that this risk increases, and the fact that a large number of money is being raised, or a large number of money remains within the ATMs because of the population that does not raise so often, because of the older population. In this sense, it is somewhat contradictory of the trend that is highlighted and to which I will look more closely at this speech, which is one of the reasons why we have to implement these amendments and additions to the law at all, which is that, with those risk factors in the current period, additional risk factors are seen by introducing the EUR as an official currency, which will increase the risk of increasing the value of money in ATMs, which could lead to an exceptional increase in the number of attacks on ATMs in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we recognise the tangible benefits that the introduction of the EUR brings, such as the disappearance of the currency risk for citizens with loans in EUR and transaction costs and the reduction of interest rates. We are also aware of the positive effects that the entry of EUR would have on Croatian exports, but we believe that Croatia is not ready to enter the Eurozone, which even raises this argument which calls for such legislative changes. However, they would be useful both because of the tourist season and because of the current situation in Croatia, it is not related to the introduction of the EUR, but it is worth taking this opportunity to discuss to remind myself again why the introduction of EUR is risky for Croatia. So, in this short entry into the zone, there are clear indications that in the next period, especially in the context of a global change in the economic climate and a certain entry into a new recession, we will not be able to meet the criteria of successful control of public debt and budget deficits. The favourable global trends and cosmetic changes at national level have brought positive shifts to the revenue side of the budget before this crisis, but we have also been increasing expenditure at the same time, which means that the necessary consolidation of public finances has not been implemented. This makes us particularly vulnerable in the recession that we are now entering, and by entering the EUR we have lost our ability to adapt to exchange rate policy. We therefore advocate fiscal consolidation and long-term compliance with the Maastricht convergence criteria before the decision to adopt the common currency. In this regard, we are aware of the contractual introduction of the EUR commitments which we see already assumed here as absolutely accepted towards the ongoing lack of public debate on one of the key issues concerning all Croatian citizens and for which there is a great interest, which is our currency sovereignty but we believe that Croatia must use its discretionary right that we have and the contract gives us to decide on our own on the moment of accession to the Eurozone, not that we are now changing the legislative frameworks with that argument. If the Government and the Governor remain in the decision that Croatia will adopt the EUR as soon as possible, we will request a referendum to decide at what point the contractual obligation should be respected and to enter the Eurozone. So we are already witnessing policies that assume Croatia's entry into the Eurozone and adjustments to the legislative framework that go towards the expected presence of the EUR on the Croatian market. We believe that this accepted assumption should be questioned again and open a public debate on it. Similarly, regardless of this form of ATM adjustment that would make them less accessible to theft and protect the health of Croatian citizens, given the higher degree of security that is required here, we consider it desirable and acceptable, but it should occur earlier especially in places that are of particular risk. We also need to open a debate on whether we are going to insist on uniform stickers or clear and unequivocal warnings that ATMs are under such protection so that they already act preventively not even to have their, trying to break into them, and not to leave it at the will of the banks. And we need to work on doing this analysis that we have finally received in at least one legislative proposal once again, we do a full analysis at the level of Croatia's endangered zones, at the risk of ATMs, that is those more frequent zones due to the rise in tourism, but often as you yourself know the most vulnerable ATMs and because of the amount of money they hold in them and because of the location where those who escape the eyes of the public are located in less frequent and more difficult places available. This should also be taken into account if we are going to do a risk assessment in the regions, in places in Croatia to see which ATMs need immediate protection to prevent the health of Croatian citizens. This is about adapting and this legislative framework, and as regards the principle of what this legislative framework assumes, once again needs to be opened or in fact a public debate on the introduction of the EUR in Croatia already being implemented in our legislative framework at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34623	Thank you, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak will now present views on this law of the Centre and GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34624	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will also join our club to support and welcome this law, whose intention is to prescribe measures to protect persons and property in business, or to protect ATMs, day-to-day night vaults from the attacks we have seen in the analysis and preparation of this law that the increase in the crime of heavy theft is by breaking into ATMs, especially by explosions, gas explosions and so on. A simple explosion. We're a tourist country, the pandemic era is also a policy of banks are such that they discourage people from actually coming to businesses, so they encourage them to use these as many direct channels as possible. One of these direct channels is also ATMs until there is some future that will actually reduce the use of cash, but today whether we have digital banking mobile banking etc., all of those services are whether or not they're diminimising the use of cash, but we're not yet in that future, and therefore we need to be sure whether it's safe as we said the safety and health of citizens and do everything we can to reduce this number of break-ins into ATMs. The transport and transfer of money has long been protected by electrochemical protection and electrochemical systems. Rules also have a high level of protection and then ATMs become somewhat tempting for some low risk for perpetrators, especially now as we go towards the EUR will be interesting and to say so to foreign robbers. What I asked in the replica here on, when presenting this law I was talking about electrochemical protection or other forms of protection against the gas explosion. Thus, electrochemical protection will not necessarily prevent theft, but destroying money will make it impossible to use it or reduce the cost of that theft. The problem is that destroying money makes it impossible for alienated money to return in some way, and it is possible that there is a case so that in this way and not destroy all the money and then whether the bandits can use that money. So there are technologies today that can prevent a gas attack. So you have systems that prevent gas from getting into those ATMs in a way that they actually throw it out with some other gas, and if there's a random fire, they activate some systems to shut it down. So I asked if, apart from electrochemical protection, it was also thought about these other systems that could be used for this purpose so that the obligation for the bank to use this or that is, in fact, to prove that the system they use is useful for what is intended to prevent, prevent punishment. So these are systems if they detect the gas in place, neutralize it, and then eventually there's no damage to the property, there's no damage to the ATMs, there's no damage to these cases of gas explosions, what happens is that an entire ATM even flies those parts of the ATMs can fly up to 50 meters if these traffickers use more gas, so here if we stop them from happening at all, it doesn't seem like it's a better way to protect them. I also wanted to mention here, so in this proposal, I don't know if it's mentioned, so the new ATM which, so it's 5 years, but for the new ATMs that are being installed, those that change so the deadline is now, not 5 years, but then as soon as the ATM is replaced, or those new ones that are being installed by them, it's an obligation that the bank immediately implements this protection. So that's one good thing, and I'm saying we'd support it if it were to cut this five-year deadline anyway. We see that in the public debate they are and the professional security chamber has proposed that that deadline be 3 years. One more thing I'm going to mention here may not have a direct connection to these amendments to the law right now, so it's a number of ATMs that are increasingly insulting the visions of the old city's core. In Split we had a lot of debates both in the public and in the polemics because simply ATMs and exchanges were literally booming at every step. The setting of ATMs in the windows of the crafts, there was a lot of money offered for it, it was tempting to people that during that winter stagnation period they had no income, so it seemed to them here in their window I could put 3-4 ATMs in the window, and it's great if it's perfect for the whole winter. It is also known that in Split, the illegal opening of a window in Marmont's street in a protected zone, how our services are working at the speed they work, while it was found illegal while the services were activated and the illegal exchange shop was in that case, most likely earned quite a amount of money until the services came and closed the illegal.... They had a similar problem in Dubrovnik, they solved it with a new decision on municipal order, a similar thing in Sibenik, so in these protected especially under UNESCO protection in protected city cores. In fact, I just want to remind the city authorities that their decisions on communal order introduce some order here that these ATMs aren't stuck and sitting on each other. Mostly here we support this law, think about some other forms of protection other than electrochemical protection and work to shorten this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34625	You, too. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34626	Thank you very much. ... For 10 minutes when we talk about the protection of financial institutions in this case, we are talking about ATMs and the protection of ATMs, the protection of those who are protected as face bears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here, the tribal in this topic would say that money from our citizens' pockets is being expunged, so that every day, every month, it collects the withdrawal of its own cash from its own account, and that's what we'd be much louder about. And just to protect the interests of bankers, banking lobbys in the Republic of Croatia is otherwise a trend, it is in, protects them and the CNB does not protect Croatia's interests, protects the introduction of the euro without any debate at the expense of Croatian citizens, and so on in this case colleagues and colleagues. We only talk about the protection of large ones, we cannot talk about what big ones in this case are doing to our citizens. So look how much they collect to our people who are pensioners who have little money, to all citizens, to raise their own money from their own account, you will see what they are doing. But the whole system also focused lobbys on large, strong, large ones with only profits such as banks in the Republic of Croatia against the interests of a small man. A man who has low incomes, low wages, irregular salaries, pensioners to get them to the banks, i.e. When the ATMs pick up or put up or raise money from their account to charge them huge fees, that's what they'd tribal about. This should be arranged, and not only protects those who are protected otherwise and are controlled by the entire Croatian system. That's why we once again protect the little one from the money in the pockets through the ATMs and through our own accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34627	Thank you very much. I'll give you a break, and we'll use it to clear the council until 12.50. MEETING AT 12:40 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.47 HOURS]] Here you go, Mr. Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34628	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, along with his associate. Here's by reading the bill on amendments to the law, I was kind of planning to say that I hope that the other clubs of the MPs will support this proposal. And after we have already heard the views of the clubs, I can say that I am glad that the other clubs have already expressed their intention to support such a proposal to amend the law with respect to, of course, observations regarding the deadline, the set deadline within which the banks have to adapt, means to change the systems, to upgrade the protection systems at ATMs. This legislative proposal wasn't on the Finance Committee, so I don't know exactly what you've been talking about on these two committees, but obviously there's a sign on the side of the motion that we're considering a cut, a cut in that deadline. We heard from the applicant's opening statement that the figures regarding the committing of the crime of heavy theft and assault on vehicles carrying cash actually disappeared almost, significantly from there in 2007. when an obligation to electrochemical money protection has been introduced. We've heard that even the number of attacks on the affairs of monetary institutions has dropped in recent years. But, of course, the perpetrators and potential perpetrators of such crimes are thinking and thinking about always moving their focus to where they expect to be able to commit such acts more easily and of course that the ATMs have somehow come to their turn. This bill is likely to completely eliminate attempted robbery on ATMs, in fact, deter potential perpetrators. What is next, and I hope that even the promoters are thinking in advance, is that, which are some future places of interest of potential perpetrators if they can't go to ATMs anymore, I can't think of trucks that drive money, I can't go to businesses, and it's unfortunately not expected that such people will cease to exist, I believe that you're thinking about what some places in the future are going to look for opportunities for such, such actions, whether or not I don't know the exchange offices, maybe we've mentioned bookshops, automatic clubs, gas stations, what they're kind of already being stalked, and in order, it's easy for them to do such crimes on such facilities. So I believe that the promoters and the government, or the MUP, are also considering how to deter potential perpetrators from both such and such acts. I would briefly just as far as the deadline is concerned and if we were to actually tie it to the deadline for the introduction of the EUR, it seems actually practical to have 5.g. It may be long if it decreases perfectly, but certainly some last day should be the introduction, the introduction of the EUR. We have heard here that in discussions on behalf of the clubs the remark is actually that the main reason for these changes is that we will go and what is expected to enter the European Monetary Union very quickly, introduce the EUR as a means of payment, and then we need to adapt the protection on ATMs. But it's clear from the proposal and it's explained that actually the main reason is the protection of people and property, I'd say actually surrounding assets around the ATM. We heard the ATM itself as a device, and the funds in it are secured, on that side means we don't bring the banks into a more favourable position, we don't protect some banks that are already protected as, like, face bears because they actually already have a level of protection because they're insured and the devices are secured. These amendments to the laws, in fact, prevent potential perpetrators from attacking ATMs, protect potential passersby people who find themselves near these ATMs and protect property around these ATMs. These ATMs, external ATMs most often you know and themselves they are some public spaces whether on the street, whether within a business facility, whether within a shopping center or very close to it and there are actually the biggest, biggest damages, and there, in fact the aim of the law is to prevent damage to property around these, about ATMs. I'm glad to say once again that other clubs have recognized the necessity of introducing such a law. Until the second reading, think about these fines that were heard through the debate and here because this bill raises the level of security, the general level of security of the HDZ Club will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34629	Thank you. Yes, we can have time for another individual, Mrs. Danica Baricevic. So exactly, exactly one o'clock, one minute and one minute, we start with the stops. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34630	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues, the purpose of the applicable Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, which was adopted in 2015, is to reduce the risk and increase the protection of persons in monetary institutions through their direct protection or indirect protection and property. This law prescribes measures and protection of persons and property in the offices of monetary institutions in the use of payment, payment and storage devices of cash and value as well as the distribution of cash and value. Measures to protect the confidentiality of personal and other data in monetary institutions and to monitor its implementation are also prescribed. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law stems from the fact that the current protection prescribed by the applicable law does not, however, provide an adequate degree of security for persons and property. In today’s day, this refers particularly to the proposal for a new modern way of protecting ATMs, night vaults and security deposit boxes. The ATMs have indeed become the most widespread source of cash in the Republic of Croatia. There are 5850 of them, their number is constantly on the rise, the internal ATMs located in bank offices are about 1250, and the external ones that are out of business, the bank's business has about 4600. They are usually located in residential or business facilities, these exteriors are in open spaces where most people are gathered, and in recent years we have witnessed an increasing number of serious crimes of theft just breaking into these ATMs located in external rooms or external premises. Since 1 November 2020, 36 crimes have been committed by heavy theft or attempted theft by breaking into ATMs, of which 34 have been committed by explosions of gas or explosives. On the headlines of daily newspapers and portals, we can read headlines like this from January 2020 more and more. Explosion broke the ATM at Kutina thieves fled with money or from April 2019. A blown-up ATM in Zagorje since the explosion shakes houses and shoots glass. So these attacks using explosives are certainly the most dangerous for human lives, and when it comes to property security in recent times, there is an attack with the use of modern technology. That's how it is, for example. In 2019, an ATM in a Split post office dropped 1,000 kunas on the street, and it was not a malfunction, but a cyber thief who, with the help of a portable account, robbed an ATM, and connected his computer to an ATM and gave him an order to throw out money. Therefore, the trend in the increasing number of attacks on ATMs indicates that there is also an increasing potential threat to the safety of people, lives and assets, and the current protection prescribed by the applicable law does not provide for this appropriate degree of security. Therefore, the amendments and additions of this law prescribe exactly the modern means of protecting ATMs aimed at protecting money, and one of the most effective ways to reduce the risk of physical attacks on ATMs is to install electrochemical protection of devices, which is currently not an obligation under existing legal obligations, but the electrochemical protection of money means that when breaking into ATMs, money would be destroyed or painted so that thieves become unusable. The measure of introducing a system that destroys bills and makes them unusable after unauthorized penetration into the ATM safe will achieve the effect of deterring the perpetrator and making it difficult to commit serious thefts. The establishment of measures with external ATMs must be mandatory for all external ATMs without exception, given the fact that more than 95% of the crimes were committed precisely on external ATMs. It is estimated that the full implementation of the prescribed measures could be completed within 5 years of the date of entry into force of this law, which would redistribute and facilitate the total cost of their introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34631	Now we're going back to the wheel we stopped at, we have two more replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34632	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Baricevic, let's get back to the subject. In your debate about this law you mentioned exactly the location of the ATMs themselves and that they are really on public surfaces and on our markets. You come from that beautiful little town in Dalmatia on the island of Brac, Supetar. We may be able to look at these amendments to the law and maybe change some more things about the security itself and the location of the ATMs it's very important that these ATMs fit into both the environment and our own markets. We know that certain small places and works their size as long as they may be old and organized in one Dalmatian way, but they often disrupt exactly the visor and for the sake of neon itself and color and everything so I believe the amendments to this law may need to bring the initiative down to our cities and municipalities, especially tourist centres, so that we can work on just a little bit on the visa, but also on the very integration of ATMs into our centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34633	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34634	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I agree with you and your initiative is excellent, I think that there are already local self-government units in the Law on the Communist Economy so that units of local self-government in their decisions on the municipal order should prescribe the way and everything that is necessary to approve the location so that these ATMs in small towns and large cities in the old cores do not reward space, that it is somehow spatial-planned, and certainly there is a balance between and protection of cultural heritage, and also a free market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34635	And the next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34636	Dear MPs, we are aware that when we come to the fact that the ATM has been attacked or destroyed, this is one measure that will help keep the funds from being estranged, but will not prevent that damage. What other preventive methods do you think would be useful besides this? Can we talk about some kind of unique labelling system on all ATMs that will be sent as a clear warning of what will happen if an explosive tries to attack that ATM so we don't get any damage we'll have to do later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34637	Honorable representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34638	I thank the distinguished MPs, excellent question and excellent conclusion. Indeed, I agree with you that it is for people who are working on exactly the draft law on amendments and additions to the law along with some professional security people who will find a more modern way of protecting and money. He's alone, the money itself, so here's hoping to take care of that in the future. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34639	Thank you very much. Before we move to the debate individually next, I would just like to inform you that we will discuss one more point today after the debate, which is a choice of appointments and resolutions. Here, and now they will speak individually to the esteemed representative of Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34640	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues to come back and talk after free speeches, we are normally discussing amendments to the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions. To begin with, I would like to normally praise the secretary of state, but also the entire MUP, because this law is an example of the proactive action of our ministries and that when we look at one statistic or one problem that can happen, which is when we see statistics in the last few years of the increase just attacking the ATMs themselves and actually changing in the very criminal acts, we see a preventive law that is before us. one preventive amendment and addition, and it is very good and effective that the ministry is doing exactly that way, and that this is how it brings us such proposals in order to prevent future occurrences that are not within society or related to certain criminal offences. As we have heard from the State Secretary himself, this law has been in force and applied since 2015, it is also normal for the protection of the affairs of monetary institutions dealing with monetary activities, and the aim is to protect themselves normally from crimes, the protection of persons and property, but also what I always like to highlight when it comes to the MUP, which is precisely that work on prevention itself. We also see in the reasoning of the law and itself, the statistics itself number of reductions in the crimes themselves which are related to the affairs of monetary institutions but also to the increase of criminal acts but also these physical attacks on ATMs which, as we have heard, there are over 5000, 5850 and most of them 4/5 are in the external parts, i.e. on the public surfaces, they are not within the offices and here in the last 5 years we have an increase of 8 crimes related to the physical attack on ATMs where here, which is rising in 2020 to 44 criminal acts where there have been and fatal injuries so that these changes and complements are very welcome, and I think, regardless of one resistance from banks and monetary institutions that normally all, every change of security sees and some cost, however, we need to force them to take some new measures to prevent exactly these attacks. Logicality is clear, we see what the electrochemical system has brought to the protection of money when we talk about the vehicles themselves, which carry more money from monetary institutions, and we know how much it will bring a shift when it is introduced into the ATM itself. And we've seen the most protected themselves, the safest are those ATMs that are inside the sayings where we have that double door, but we have this big problem that we definitely have to solve, and these are the ATMs on the public surfaces definitely have to have this security system. I think we have a lot of strong companies dealing with security and surveillance so that maybe the introduction of additional cameras on ATMs that are not at this moment and are not very expensive in themselves, I think we could prevent additional crimes not only physical attacks on ATMs but maybe also monitor certain public areas that are of interest to the city and the state. The only controversy here is in the debate to touch that, that's the five-year deadline. They can also agree with the secretary of state, it's interesting that he pointed out that banks and are currently resisting certain changes, normally see it as their own expense, but we definitely need to introduce these five years to monetary institutions a certain system and certain percentages in each year to adapt to these changes. However, we are entering the Eurozone, the amount will increase, there will be a greater risk for monetary institutions as well as for ATMs by introducing the euro. So I think this is also one of the criteria and one of the parts of the adjustment of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone itself, so I definitely think that through the talks with the banks whether we're going to put that deadline into the law itself now, or through the conversation we're going to impose a certain pace, I think it's on the side of the MUP, but I can see that they're thinking very well so full support about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34641	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34642	Dear fellow on the trail of this last one you started, if we can insist that the new ATMs are already adjusted to this system, can we also introduce some additional type of discrimination if not for everyone to have that deadline sooner because it is still a threat to our citizens, but also a visitor for the time of tourist season, then at least in some places to make risk assessments for these ATMs to start implementing these legal provisions early?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34643	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34644	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Selak Rasudiæ, for the comment and the replica, I absolutely agree with you, I think that this deadline, especially by entering and announcing Eurozon entry, is very large. It may sound a little ugly, but I don't think we need to protect the banks around any additional financial supplements and expenditures that are related to security and public areas and citizens themselves. So I believe, I think normally that by the degree of these amendments of the law, they will adapt the time that is before them, but we still have to set them a certain deadline. not so many deadlines may not need to be changed from five to three years, but the dynamics of change, and especially what you've highlighted, we have certain ATMs, especially in tourist centres that have more money and more money fluctuations, but also more people who move around them, and I think they pose an additional risk, so banks definitely have to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34645	The next is the replica of the respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34646	Thank you very much. A colleague, for example, by introducing an electrochemical protection system in the insurance and money accompanying process since 2007. To date, the crimes of robbery against special armored vehicles of security companies have almost been eradicated. By installing a system of protection that primarily affects cash in ATMs, it will make it unusable. Do you feel that such a way will completely stop physical attacks on ATMs through the use of gas, explosives, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34647	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34648	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Baričević, for the replica itself. I think the effect is why I also commended the MUP is precisely this law is a good thing because before it is a catastrophic or critical situation in a particular area, it is good to discuss and prevent certain types of behavior. I think it's definitely the most important segment of this law to achieve the exact effect of deterring the perpetrator and just making it harder to commit crimes. What I've mentioned about this new system of painting itself and destroying in some way the money itself that is unusable to such perpetrators, when we look at statistics, I don't think it was in the explanation, but I think statistics are good from the introduction of private security companies' own vehicles that have had problems with attacks and the introduction of this electrochemical system. I mean, when we get him to the ATMs, it's gonna be a whole different story that we're going back to the 2015 stats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34649	The next one is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34650	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. By passing this law, we have said that the protection of our citizens, but does it seem to you that five years is a long time since we know that all practically automatics are on the street, and clearly if we want to be free and our own, and the machine is on the street where common robbery happens as long as we are then free, and we know that in every city, every quarter you have an automatic we said over 5,000, is it not logical that this is done now and immediately?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34651	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34652	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Shimičević, for the replica. It is a large number of 5,850 ATMs and we must never forget that we are still a tourist center. Normally, the prevention of any violence or crime against our citizens is normally the primary goal of every law, especially from the jurisdiction of the MUP, but when we include an increase in the number of visitors during the tourist season when we include it all, when we see that Croatia has a country of 4 million inhabitants double or increases by three times the number of inhabitants in the summer months, when we know the location of the ATMs themselves is in public squares where a large number of people are gathered. And we know exactly this physical attack and the kind of attack on ATMs exclusively means explosives, I think that by definitely these changes we will just prevent such actions and protect our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34653	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Chicko.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34654	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. The protection of citizens and the level of security in Croatia is of paramount importance, we are a tourist destination, we believe that by amending this law we will provide an additional level of security. The very protection of banknote insurance in such a way as to become unusable, any kind of attempted theft in the beginning discourages. I believe that no one is happy to hear about the various explosions that are happening, a lot of things and such explosions have happened in my Zagreb County in my own municipality. Do you think this is a good path and a good direction that the government has proposed law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34655	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34656	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Chichak, for the replica. You, as the head of a rapidly growing community and normally with the population and economic development itself, know what any incident means when it happens and what our citizens think about it and how important it is to maintain the statistics of our municipalities, cities and the Republic of Croatia in general. We know what this statistic means when we talk about the safety of the tourist season, we know what it meant to us at the beginning of this pandemic, let alone when we talk about the very criminal acts against either property or person. So at the beginning of the exhibition, I stressed that every action of the MUP, every law that comes here in front of us, the first line and the first thread must be prevention. Prevention is what the main preventive factor of any regulation must be in the first place, and I think that's exactly what this law is, acting on the very prevention of removing future crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34657	Replica also has a respected representative, Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34658	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague. Follow-up of property crimes has seen a trend in the increase in heavy thefts of the invasion or physical attack on ATMs. It is precisely this law that is good and I welcome it and support it, but this prescribed five-year deadline in which all ATMs should be introduced into electronic protection all predecessors agreed that if it is possible to shorten that deadline to three years, therefore here is your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34659	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34660	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maximchuk, for this comment and for the replica itself. In the debate itself, there were many questions about these five or three years of introduction and the deadline for meeting the obligations of monetary institutions. I agree with you, it is good that most of the comments and that most of the clubs and representatives who have commented mentioned this exact deadline, I think the Secretary of State wrote it down, that it will comment on the services that have done these changes and complements. We talked a little bit about, I think that Lalovac has imposed this topic, we talked a little bit about the Eurozone itself and the introduction of the euro and how much it will cost you, how much they will increase the value of the money they have in their content and that we definitely need to coordinate Croatia's entry into the Eurozone with the application of this law, so if it is necessary to reduce the deadline for the monetary institutions themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34661	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34662	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. The fundamental argument for introducing these changes is the safety of our citizens. The security of our citizens is a fundamental argument for a broad change that is taking place at EU level and which has a major impact on the lives of our citizens, and it concerns precisely the means that we will trade in our lives and which, apart from the security that nominally offers, is also going towards the threat of our certain freedoms. So I'm going to use this individual debate to say something about the ratio of cash and card payments, a relationship that will be crucial in the future, because there's a possibility that we'll completely give up cash, which can lead to the threat of our basic freedoms, but also a relationship that has proved extremely important in times of crisis because we can see now the detimulation of cash payments in response to this crisis. In the future, that cash may disappear, and that may be the need for ATMs at all. That future is already on our doorstep, so then the question is, does it make sense to invest this much to preserve these same ATMs that will soon become a thing of the past, of course if we all agree together that we want them and the cash as such to become a thing of the past? I think this issue is very important for Croatian citizens and needs special attention, and this debate that started with these amendments and amendments to the law provides the necessary framework for it to be properly set. The EU initiative recently proposed a limit on cash, which is one of the subtle changes in a society that has gone towards strengthening the already adopted EU action plan in the fight against terrorism, so to preserve our security, which involves modernising European regulations and adapting existing new threats and methods of combat. As explained above, they are perfectly related to the decision of the European Central Bank of May 2016. which abolishes the further production of 500 euro banknotes and is allowed to be in circulation by 2018 at the latest. After which you shouldn't be on the market. It is, in turn, attached to the third European anti-money laundering directive that forces the trader... to keep data on transactions greater than 15,000 euros. And the UN supports a secure society, and now it should discuss the positive and negative sides of a security society. The first question is, how realistic is the elimination or at least the reduction of the gray market that a non-cash society could lead to? What seems to us to be high-level corruption is globally viewed as actually low-level corruption, so we can talk about that in other ways than cash, you can market with those who, for example, can. By way of an account, they do different jobs in repairing, building a house, etc. The second is a negative issue of control, if we lose our ability to pay cash it will be well known to the monetary institutions what we spend and what our habits are. Someone's gonna say they control us on the phone anyway and ask us what's the difference. The surveillance cameras that are all around us are asking what the role of the state is today, and what is private today? What does money mean to us? Is money part of our identity and what happens if it disappears from use? How would that affect even more education and consumer habits? It has been proven to be spent more if there is no cash and it is bought by card. This material world is still teaching us caution. Since the world of ideas is being charged today anyway, it's all a virtual question is why we're going to need money at all. But there is a bank profit and further abuse. I will remind the price of the transaction and the monopoly position of the banks allows commissions from 1 to 7% on card business where cash is still given a discount. Does a man lose interventions that go towards obtaining cash freedom to dispose of his property? What does it mean to be able to take the money out of the bank and be limited to how much of its own money can be exported from the bank, and what is the key situation in Croatia? Croatia is an example of working with nearly 9 million debit and credit cards and their annual growth of 2% at the top of the EU according to the number of cards per capita, but it is still a problem that cards can be paid in just 11% of the total number of business facilities and the fact that 40% of cards are not actually used. So, what do you do? Strengthen card business or obtaining cash and then perhaps our fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34663	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34664	Thank you very much. My colleagues talk here about the law on protection means ATM means an ATM instrument, but the fact is that lately here are the last days most of the benefits are raised by users who raise their money from ATMs, raise it or put it on the bill. So here, you suck the cash out of people's pockets through large fees and it would be very good to find out from the CNB or the agency who's in charge of monitoring how much money is taken monthly from our people, our cash-deprived economies. And it's now in this crown crisis increased. Imagine what it's like to raise money for the pensioners, and now they're getting an increase in ATM fees, and while the banks in the Republic of Croatia have a huge profit, they repeat 4 billion kunas per year on fees and fees, and with this they're certainly increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34665	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34666	The necessity of using ATMs nowadays really raises the question of whether ATMs should be treated as an infrastructure asset and that it is possible to use ATMs to anyone without any kind of compensation that can be quite high, which can be used in particular during the tourist season, or whether it is about the arbitrary service of a bank that has purchased a really specific space in a specific place and has the right to do so with its assets, and also the ATM and commissions of whatever will be. I agree that this problem is most felt by Croatian citizens and by all those who will come to Croatia and who cannot fight for where the bank they are dependent on will have an ATM and who will then be forced to use and pay compensation. Of course, the state should always think about protecting the interests of its citizens and about the different models of that which will allow or equal availability of all ATMs or that Make sure there's no such charge. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34667	Thank you. The replica of the respected MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34668	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you went in your debate one step further and you talked about the cash itself as things of the past, about a non-cash society. In this section, they can agree with you specifically on the introduction of restrictions because in some countries and we know what this means, and we know how much it would make it easier for the tax administration itself and for certain accounts, especially in the hospitality itself, but we also need to indicate that, in particular, at the time of the crown that we have made big withdrawals and in the security payments itself and in general regarding Internet banking but still just the introduction of the EUR itself, but we must take the segment of tourism, I think that cash will also banke that it will remain for a few years still represented in our society just for the sake of the season itself and for the sake of the fact that money is being fluctuated. So I believe you will also support that this law still makes sense in this decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34669	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34670	I agree that this law makes sense in this decade and of course we will support it for the safety of our citizens, although we believe that the deadline should be shorter or that it should in some way adapt to the sensitivity of individual ATMs so that this security is at the highest possible level. What you said, we'd rather penalize the banks and take care of our citizens than go back to the banks and put our citizens' health aside. But I think this is the topic of our future, which needs to be discussed more because EU-level regulation is uncritically introduced, and then applied to national legislation that goes towards detimising cash. And cash is and will always be in relation to new payment options, however, the expression of freedom. And a man must be free to deal with it. What is yet to be expected is that another debate in this direction was the issue of crypto currency. So maybe this debate of mys about cards is too much in the spirit of a new time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34671	And the last replica, the respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34672	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, we're getting a little off the ATM right now, but the payment gene was first getting the money on our hands, so we had checks, so we have the cards, so we have the ATMs, and you think we're actually doing what the centers say. And are we actually free to resist them or will it be what we say or will it be what they say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34673	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34674	I am pleased that this issue comes from a ruling majority who does not feel at all powerful in relation to the centres of power and who acknowledges itself that it cannot regulate what is happening I do not know whether it is only at the level of Croatia or at the level of what you are doing in the parliament of colleagues. I understand, and we are troubled by the same problem with these same centres of power, and it is unfortunate that even you within the ruling majority can not be what you want, but you have my full support in the democratic fight against these same centres of power which I hope will also be a fight for a better and better-quality parliament because if you get rid of yourself in your action in the assembly, if you say no to the centres, then we will be able to vote here all we want and what will not go to the centres of power but to the Croatian citizens. I'm sorry, but I had to take a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34675	Thank you very much. The next debate will be that respected representative Grozdana Perić, here we are a little bit in this previous debate and this previous debate, and also in the replicas we went a little wide, I ask you to come back to the topic again. The topic is the addition of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, specifically ATMs, so let's stick to it, please, here are some respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34676	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. Well, we have to go back on the subject, and that's actually this law that talks about amendments to the law on the protection of monetary institutions. We know that the basic law was passed in 2015. and these are changes that actually enable one way to modernise the needs of those we currently have in the protection of persons and property in the affairs of monetary institutions, and also measures to protect persons and property in the use of payment and payment devices. When we talk about the ATMs themselves, then what I was saying and in the very replica itself, this crown crisis and pandemic has shown that precisely such apparatus and the ability to pay off and pay off money are very welcome because they have made it possible for citizens to use and legal persons can use these ATMs without having to have direct contacts and do not have to wait in lines in banks. We have these ATMs pretty much, but what's very important is how they're distributed. In our cities, in my city, they are also deployed and concentrated on that center, and then often conservatives, and city authorities, face the fact that they are actually questioning decisions about whether it is a good thing that such a concentration is large, for example. on our Kaleragi or across the wide street. So, it's very important that this security be as much and certainly as possible this step in this law where, with these regular security methods, there would be video surveillance, either physical protection or other ways to enable this precisely electrochemical protection, as you have shown in the statistics, it would certainly be one way to detimise just those who tend to rob such actions so that we have safer systems and in such a way they would reduce and try something like that because it's not really getting anything because the bills at the same time and they're destroying. What I would certainly support and support from colleagues who are talking about is that these deadlines should be shortened for the implementation of this law, I think it should really be within the maximum period of 3 years, so this is the period of our entry into actually the mechanism itself, or the introduction of the EUR, and if we count on it to be 2023, then I think these deadlines would be appropriate to this particular implementation of the currency. This would certainly enable and we know that all these, all these ways of protection already exist and I think that this way would contribute to the safety and safety of our citizens, as well as to all those citizens who come to Croatia as tourists. Here is why I believe that this step and this change is certainly welcome and that it will certainly contribute greatly to having fewer attacks on such objects and thus actually increase the safety of citizens and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34677	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34678	Thank you, Vice President. I am interested in your opinion since you have been in finance for a long time, but you are coming from one of our tourist districts, I am interested in your opinion on the introduction of a limit on cash, that it is a little bit of a force for this card payment especially when we talk about hospitality and tourism, because we also see certain indications of the tax administration itself as much as the tax bill itself would change, how much more control would be, but also more payment of certain fees, so here is your experience, but here, in your opinion, I am just interested in introducing a limit on cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34679	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34680	Thank you very much. Well, personally, I think that the limits are more about raising the money itself because of the operation of the ATM itself because it's normal that every bank wants to be available to as many of its users as possible. So these are more reasons why restrictions are introduced than to limit them for other reasons. What I personally think is that really raising cash among others in other ATMs than other banks should be much more flexible, much more flowful and less chargeable or possibly not even chargeable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34681	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34682	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions has developed a debate that should mainly concern the words of the ATM, who looked at the 2012 film, I think it's clear that this ATM can cause multiple dangers, not just those discussed by this law. So what the law clearly states means is that it needs to protect people in monetary institutions and certainly reduce the risks of those who want to behave, and on the other hand, it is the law that solves this law with the basic message that we heard today that maybe this deadline should be somewhat shorter, but of course the ministry will only be manifested, so I think there will be some synergy there. The understanding that what we're talking about still contributes to the law itself, given that it's short and that we don't have a lot of moments to correct. What is important to say is that it shows that the number of break-ins and destruction of ATMs in 3 years is double the number of years from 2018 to '20 36, and that the number of destructions is almost 4 times higher in those 3 years clearly shows that those who are on the other side of the law have found ways to get to what is not theirs. We see from the data that we have almost 5850 ATMs and when we divide it into the number of our local self-government 576 we can conclude that there really are a lot of them. If there's no 10 in those smaller environments, we put these bigger ones in there, too. Let's apply to urban environments, etc., we can't say that we're a state that doesn't have enough of these ATMs, but obviously it's a policy of banks. I know that in my municipality I had my own bank business, however, she disappeared from my municipality for reasons and explanations that she was always saving especially on the premises that she would not pay rent and when we offered rents and co-financing etc., they went away again because apparently the ATM as well as the mobile became their own small businesses and each of us practically from our home can conduct a large majority of the transactions that we might be working in the bank and that's what we're going to have to get used to. On the question of MOST's representatives whether money, bills as a means of payment will disappear, have not disappeared for centuries, probably won't in the next period as much as they feared for it or have philosophized about it I think it's clear that the bills today are a means of payment as they were before and they will simply remain so. If the bills were gone then this law would probably no longer be necessary. So in that care we'll need the ATM, but also the bills in it, and it's up to us to deal with the banks. with their way of working we probably talk because really when we see what is happening to us in our cities or municipalities or cities, I have to commend here the mayor of Dubrovnik who has found ways to sort out the ways in which the ATMs are going to be placed in that city and who, in the end, are in some way and successfully solved for the pleasure of all not rewarding the old historical ad let's say the cores, that they don't put themselves in a way that no one is asked and that then as such they are simply what we may or should not be in such environments. Of course, it may not respond to every environment, but surely we too on our island of Rab have similar problems in the old town center where almost without question you can, in any space put an ATM and that is what should be discussed anyway. Of course, not only should you be against it, but let's see how best to solve it. We support this law and we think that it will certainly be how we saw it applied to the vehicles that carry the bills that it works and that practically the crimes of the attack on these vehicles when they were introduced means this electrochemical protection then it is clear that it will certainly work on the ATMs. The values within these ATMs are clear to be considered, so if we even get into that monetary union and we have the EUR-o already in 2023, it is likely that the need for this kind of protection will be safe and perhaps more than five years ago. Of course it's up to the government and the banks to find a way to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34683	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34684	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I think it is important to stress that we have gone a little off the table, and we have discussed on the board that today this amendment to the bill is complemented by amendments to the protection of monetary institutions, primarily the protection of citizens and their security of the Republic of Croatia as well as their assets. And here we have to stick to it, I don't think it's necessary to talk about ATM fees in some way whether we have money or we're going to pay cards, it's important to see what can be done for the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their assets. The law was passed in 2015, this is today his proposal to amend and supplement, and in my view we could talk about it before because I think five years is a lot that we haven't done anything to prevent potential danger to citizens, their lives and property. And I think that today through the debate we are more or less all agreed that this five-year deadline is too great and, as we have said on the board, we will support this law and the SDP club, a colleague of Lalovec, said that we will support it, so it is not disputed because we will all support what is being made in the amendments and additions and what is in favour of the security of the Republic of Croatia. But I think five years is one big deadline, especially since we haven't put anything in those five years, how much in the first year, how much in the second, how much in the fourth, how much in the fifth, so practically the bank can do this job in the last year and we've left four years practically at risk, so we haven't done anything in four years if everything is going to be done in the fifth year, and I think that the secretaries think about the proposal as I said on the parent board that we should cut that deadline short and I think that the introduction of the euro on January 1st, as predicted in 2023, should in some way be that deadline for these amendments and the amendments to the laws to be passed through the security of these ATMs. What's the big deal here? It is important to point out that the electrochemical substance when it has somehow been installed in armored vehicles that carry money practically since 2007 to date has almost eradicated these crimes of robbery and attacks on these vehicles which will ultimately make our own ATMs when these electrochemical substances are implanted are potentially low risks because who goes crazy now is going to rob an ATM if the money in it will be unusable. And what is important in the end to point out, my colleague Simičević gave me a good tip, I think it is not good to talk about any centres of power when it is in the interest of security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia I ask you not to talk about any centres of power but rather give some amendment that this five-year deadline is reduced because when talking about the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia I think that the Croatian state must be the centre of power, and not that in such a way that some replicate as if the centre of power had been determined for five years. I think we need to think about it, and we need to shorten that deadline, and I personally support this amendment and the addition of the law, and I think that's the percentage of the drop in robbery on armored vehicles that transport money will happen in ATMs when we do this in some way. And what I must stress is that since 2018-2020 we have started 18 crimes in order to come to 36 crimes on November 1st 2020, which means that these muggings on ATMs are increasing. And that is why I support this proposal to supplement and amend the Law on the Security and Protection of Banking Institutions. And I don't think we should be making the difference here between the ATMs that are external and the ATMs that are in the offices that we simply have to cover all the ATMs with an electrochemical substance that ultimately reduces the risk to the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34685	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Begonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34686	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think that today almost everything has been said about the amendment and the addition of this Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions has been said, but it is also said that the repetition is the mother of knowledge. Well, the original law was passed in 2015. and as the law was then 2015. adopted with a view to reducing the risk and increasing protection primarily of persons in monetary institutions with the aim of preventing criminal offences, and these changes and additions play a more or less role. The law itself has been stated and I will repeat it has given certain positive effects in the last five years where almost 50% of the crimes in monetary institutions have been reduced. Today, however, we are talking primarily about the protection of ATMs, which are said to have slightly less than 6,000 in Croatia, but if we look at where 50% is concentrated by the coast, 20% in the City of Zagreb, then I can tell you that there are, for example, municipalities in the Dalmatian Zagora that do not have an ATM, and there are pensioners there, there are other citizens who need to come to cash, especially in these pandemic times, and there have been limited movement. Whether internal, external I agree with my colleague, I think the ATM, the ATM, whether it's out there, and there's 80% of them or in some places where there's 20 percent of them because they're starting to be internal ATMs according to the risk assessment will need to be built into this electrochemical protection system. I think it's necessary to install them in all of them, not a little arbitration here. On the introduction of the euro, so I join all colleagues who have said that the risk of an increase in the threat, the break-in, is marred by the moment we introduce the euro into our payment system will be increased. Because, regardless of what seven banks hold about 90% of the ATMs, I think what the people would say to the bank is as full as a ship, and as a cost, they'll be convinced that I'm compensated through a lower price insurance policy. In fact, every ATM or value within the ATM is also secured by a particular insurance company, and I assume that by installing this electrochemical system or protecting it, that shelf is somewhat lower and a five-year term, I think in some way, I join all those who have pointed out too long that it should actually consider it to be, to be a shorter deadline. How much shorter is it for me to say, but I think we should follow the introduction of the EUR into our payment system. That some of the things that have been said here, I'm just saying again, I just don't think it makes sense that we've all responded more or less together so far to what we think about this bill of law that's positive and that the government has put into first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34687	Thank you. We have one replica, I think, of course, of this esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34688	Thank you very much. The esteemed fellow here was here to discuss whether actually cash as a means of payment was at large and that it would take over actually paying by card. You have well apostrophe in your debate this particular group of pensioners, therefore, and especially in settlements in the Dalmatian hinterland, for example, and in your town Drnis, there are certainly still groups that are especially at this time when we had this partial lockdown and when it was actually impossible to actually get almost money exactly the importance of the ATM. So I think you've just made this fact very clear that maybe today wasn't a lot of words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34689	The Honorable representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34690	Thank you. My dear colleague, of course, I agree with what you've said. I've actually listed it myself. But I'll tell you if the weather allows me one event that was in Drnis. Within one European project, there were 10 journalists from abroad from 5 European countries and 5 tour operators who said after their stay, we asked them what the objections were, which we do not have, and then they said, look at me when we bring the bus guests most of them are looking for where the ATM is, your first ATM is 30 km away. I mean that dispersion, I understand the banks that they go after profit that in Dubrovnik will certainly be far more than somewhere inside, but it's not even the subject of this law, but we should act on putting inland at least one ATM if no one else is at least a post office bank like our bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34691	Thank you very much, we've gone a little bit wide again, back to what's the subject of the debate, and the next one will speak to the esteemed representative Katarina Peović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34692	I'd still like a little bit in the widest. So the aim of this Amending and Supplemental Amendments proposal of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions is to prevent ATM theft. We have received this proposal to amend and supplement the law a very interesting data that is repeated and really needs to be taken into account, and this is a shocking realization that only 8 of these crimes took place in 2015, and in 2020, even 44 such acts. Even in the debate, it was said that these ATMs would be even more attractive prey at the time of the EUR. Such information certainly shows, and this cannot be ignored both by growth and poverty and deprivation, which is certainly a motivation for such crimes. The fact that more and more people in Croatia are blowing up ATMs is certainly one problem that is trying to solve this law, but we have a problem on the other side of this ATM which is also the cause of such poverty and deprivation. Foreign commercial banks irrevocably raise fees and collect fees, which is just another form of estrangement of hard-earned money, and the supervisory system was never forced to determine how and how they come to the value of these transactions, they determine them entirely arbitraryly. It's also a form of money estrangement a little less explosive and loud, but the result is the same. Those who earned the money lost them. In the Covid crisis, therefore, when it was spoken and appealed, and the CNB called for compensation to be withdrawn from the bank's ATMs again and now we have an announcement so as to raise and price the fees and introduce new fees. So we have fees for opening accounts, for keeping accounts, for raising cash, for raising cash at other banks' ATMs, for raising cash abroad, and now the CNB is asking for the withdrawal of that fee on the ATM, but the banks in the Covid crisis are raising cash withdrawal fees on the counters. The same should be said in this respect to whom banks raise those fees, to whom banks raise fees, and to whom they release fees. The benefits are freed from the wealthiest means these subsidized clients who keep their accounts in banks so that banks don't lose them, they do their transactions without compensation, and those who are poor so who come to their hard-earned money pay those fees. Many venture capitalists who advocate various suspensions, etc., will not be so often nor happy to catch these charges where banks should be brought into order because if a law is to be passed then it is not the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions which are already protected, but the Law on the Protection of Workers. We need a law that protects us from banks, so these monetary institutions that make a net profit of 5.6 billion a year, and that information is very important for the entire picture of why they are raised up in the air, because they are the money that foreign banks from Croatia are making each year, which is not reinvested in domestic economy, in the launch of domestic economy, production, agriculture, etc., meaning rather than persistently losing money means that they are coming out of the country, and we have to say that the average profit of 30% that the defends therefore the kind of money that banks have. So it is not too much to say that this is a form of alienation that favours the poverty of the working majority and that this unfavourable economic structure that leads to this information shocking that we have at the beginning how many people pick up ATMs are very much related to the reflection of this system of banks that finance exports or imports from their home countries, they finance their producers does not mean Croatian, Croatian economy. Expensive transactions mean they have no excuse, and if we need to pass some law, then it's a law that would put these overpriced transactions in order and where the banks would actually explain Why... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34693	Next, the next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Bulj. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34694	Thank you very much. Here is this debate on the security of banking infrastructures, i.e. Financial, financial institutions' infrastructures in this case of ATMs which are normally protected by banks in the Republic of Croatia who are visible bears and put into their hands after being recapitalised by the money of our citizens, have been handed over to foreign investors in which way and which model we see how we manage and then we lose all the banks, and the CNB does nothing so that today's infrastructure that made to the ATM is essentially a key question of the security of our citizens who come and get up, who have a small pension, a small salary of what is the fee. The fees are rising more and more on ATMs, so the question is what is going to happen so that the question is what is going to happen and what are the limits and what are the criteria as far as these fees and commissions are going to go. Anyway, it's all gone a long way, five billion kunas to win, and those fees don't get taxed. So this goes into profit through fees and commissions, and banks in Croatia have 500 fees and commissions. Is now a matter of security, here's a fellow mentioned earlier in rural areas we lose our mail, we lose a number of institutions so that the older people and I can't come and the powerless who aren't or poor can't even get to their own resources because it's just so the law is aligned to the centres you can have an open account, and you can't, simply these people don't even have the opportunity to get their money anymore, their pension, or I don't know what or any social compensation or help on this one's hands in cash, in cash. And that's the injustice, and that's the fundamental human right that's been killed, is it simple, until the end of what's been done, you just have to come with a card that you have to pay, with a card that you have to, I know it's all costing, but how much is that profit. Whoever controls in the Republic of Croatia, I know you will say the event of mining, lifting into the air of ATMs, can result in injuries of people, of course there can be injuries of people, but in Croatia everything is done in accordance with what a colleague had just said from the ruling majority in the centres of power. Our government who doesn't decide anything, the CNB, the HANFA, no one decides anything except that they're their lobbyists and that huge profits have banks, exclusively banks, and you can't suck that kind of money out of our citizens every year. Of course it'll dry once, it's sucking up to infinity, banks 5 billion a year, teleopers the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia is sucking up the same suck-up and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34695	My colleague Bulj please on the protection of monetary institutions is the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34696	Well, you'd really like to write the chairman of me what it's all about. I'm talking about a robbery that's allowed, that banks are handed over to foreigners.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34697	You're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34698	They rob banks and we protect, you protect...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34699	I warn you twice, talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34700	Well, yeah, yeah, you're protecting ATMs and okay, you're protecting ATMs, and I'm gonna tell you how much you rob.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34701	Excellent, in accordance with Article 232, I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34702	What are you taking my word for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34703	Because you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34704	What are you so nervous about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34705	Read it, read it, read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34706	You are the knights of Jerusalem's grave, you are nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34707	This next one, the next one will speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34709	Can I help you, Comrade Bauk, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34710	In order for him to complain, can you tell us which article you called for to take away my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34711	If you'd listened, you'd know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34712	No, not on what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34713	Have a look at this stenogram session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34714	And I would ask that you have someone else else, be obedient to Andrej Plenkovic, and let us gather representatives to do our duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34715	It is not your duty, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, I have warned you twice, and read to yourself finally the Rules of Procedure after so long as you have never read the Rules of Procedure in the assembly, so you would know what article this refers to. Here's my colleague, Bauk, I'm sorry to disturb you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about the protection of monetary institutions in a particular case it's a topic here, the subject of these amendments to the laws are ATMs we all think about the protection of ATMs or money in an ATM from the robbery of those who come out and therefore introduces this chemical to destroy it and to act demotive that someone even tries it. But there's each other, another light that's thrown at ATMs, which is primarily expressed in tourist and coastal places, which is that it's that ATMs nothing without a plan like mushrooms after rain everywhere. In Poreč, for example, the ATM even managed to get into this even protected building so that one door from the 19th century that was, therefore, part of our heritage managed to damage. And in that sense, I think that this idea of destroying bills or chemical means of destroying bills is also great for that case when someone sets up an ATM without permission and without documents, when the inspection goes to remove them to destroy bills, and then it will act both demotively for banks and other money institutions to put ATMs where they remember. Therefore, in this respect, for the second reading of the law, it would be good to have one provision, which is that the responsibility for the funds that are destroyed by chemicals is, if they are illegally placed ATMs, those who are placed without proper documentation, especially in a culturally protected area, or simply where they interfere with daily traffic or the functioning of everyday life, so where they reward the environment and everything that is otherwise worth it for ordinary mortals, would be good for banks to do as well. In this sense, I pray that, I propose to the Proposer, in a clear way, to place responsibility for illegally placed ATMs and possible damages that could result from the removal of these ATMs as their responsibility. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34717	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34718	So I have to say, I like this idea of yours, to put acid on, but not for bills, but for bankers. Can you explain what this is about and I don't know if you have any more concrete suggestions on how to work it out?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34719	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34720	Well, that's worked out, that's settled in law. So, chemically, chemically, you'll be destroying bills when you try to rob an ATM in a way that's already prescribed by law. The only question is who's going to compensate for the damage that's going to take place. In case it's illegally placed, it should be the bank, not the one that's robbing about, it's about my taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34721	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this subject, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34723	We are now going to the next point, i.e. two points (a) and (b): a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Sports Council and (a) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the National Sports Council is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 4. Sports law. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports Tomislav Družak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34724	Dear Chairman, honourable Members and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, allow me to explain this point (a) and (b) in one presentation, since it is actually the same business, resolution and appointment of the National Sports Council. Therefore, the National Sports Council is the most professional and advisory body concerned with the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Sports law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on sport is prescribed that the National Sports Council has a president and 12 members who appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament and 6 members on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 3 members on the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee, 1 member on the proposal of the Croatian Paralympic Committee, 1 member on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Union of the Deaf and 1 member on the proposal of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on sport is prescribed for the Croatian Parliament to appoint six members of the National Sports Council every 2 years, and the president is appointed for 4 years. It is clear from that provision that all 12 members of the council are not in the same mandate at the same time, but that the rotation takes place every 2 years. The Croatian Parliament appointed a new meeting of the National Sports Council of the President and all 12 members of the National Sports Council since 15 February 2019, with the president and six members appointed for the term of office of 4 years, and 6 members appointed for the term of office of 2 years in accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the Sport Act in order to ensure that the rotation of members is foreseen every 2 years. The term of office of 2 years was appointed 1 member of the council appointed to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 2 on the proposal of the Olympic Committee, 1 on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Union of the Deaf, 1 on the proposal of the Croatian Paralympic Committee and 1 on the proposal of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb and their mandate expires on 15 February, it expired on 15 February 2021. The end of the term of office of those 6 members has led to a procedure for the appointment of new 6 members of the National Sports Council. In accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Government from the session held on 3 December 2020, a public invitation was issued for the application of an application for a member of the National Sports Council to which the candidates could make themselves known by 28 December 2020. 5 applications for a public call were received to Ante Baković railway transport engineer, president of the Croatian volleyball association, member of the Croatian Olympic Committee Assembly, Erasmus Marcan professional first-time coach, swimming coach, chief coach and president of the Plivatska club Orka, Dragutin Karlo Poljak Engineering School, retired, football judge and judicial controller for 20 years on the list of judicial controllers, Klaudija Bubalo master of kinesiology, director of the Handball Club Lokomotiva, long-standing professional handball player and Croatian representative, Jurica Top Santiary Inspector Medical Faculty, President and swimming coach in Poško Split. In accordance with Article 4(1), The law on sport The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed the appointment of the Croatian Parliament of Ante Bakovic as a member of the candidate, as a member of the National Sports Council. In addition, in accordance with Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, The Law on Sport and Conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the session held on 3 December 2020, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports called on the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic and Croatian Sports Union of the Deaf and Chinese Faculty of Zagreb to deliver their proposals for members of the National Council what they have done. The Croatian Olympic Committee proposed Tomislav Grahovec and Marija Vukoju. The Croatian Paralympic Committee proposed Ratko Kovacic. The Croatian Sports Federation of the Deaf was proposed by Oliver Lušić, and the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb proposed an extraordinary Prof. Dr.sc. Tomislav Krističević. A few sentences about these candidates. So Tomislav Grahovac is a dipl.iur. Law firm Grahovac, Horvat, Zapelj d.o.o., President of the Croatian Handball Union, Chairman of the Organising Committee of the European Handball Championship 2018. Mario Vukoja, professional first-in-command of the coaching profession, vice-president of the Croatian Gymnastics Union, president of the Technical Committee of men's sports gymnastics of the European gymnastics Federation, vice-president of the Association of Sports Associations and Associations of the Međimurje County, head of the National Gymnastics Centre and sports director Marijan Zadravec Macan. Ratko Kovačić, president of the Croatian Paralympics Committee, assistant head of health care, social protection and pensioners in the Bjelovar-Biogorje County, president and member of the Management Council of the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities Novi Sirac, longtime active contestant in table tennis. Oliver Lušić, president of the Croatian Sports Union of the Deaf, the main co-ordinator for the Croatian handball team, professional handball player. And Prof. Tomislav Krističević, dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb, president of the Croatian Athletic Association of Persons with Disabilities, president of the Committee of State Award for Sport Franjo Bučar, university professor, special adviser for sport of the Ministry of Science and Education since 2016, member of the Executive Board of the Croatian Paralympics Committee since 2018. So the new 6 members of the National Sports Council that we propose to be appointed for a term of four years to ensure that the bill provides for a rotation or re-election by the Croatian Parliament for 6 members every 2 years. The proposal is therefore to get rid of Ante Baković, Tomislav Grahovac, Mario Meštrović, Mario Lušić, Ratko Kovačić, Tomislav Kristicevic, and to be named Ante Baković, Tomislav Graovac, Mario Vukoja, Oliver Lušić, Ratko Kovacic and Tomislav Kristicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34725	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34726	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, please explain to me what kind of strategy you have in the National Sports Council when we at today's debate on the resolution and appointment of part of the members of the National Council are discussing, we draw some conclusions and when the conditions for voting are created and we will vote on those persons, and before that we have not been delivered, probably not even written a report on their work from the last term, so I don't know if you think we may be the grandmothers of Wang, so we can predict that they have done their job so well that they deserve this mandate or you're telling us that we simply believe in your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34727	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34728	I appreciate the question. So these are two different appointment processes or re-election of members of the National Council, and the second is a legal obligation that the National Sports Council must carry out or submit to the Croatian Assembly as a parliamentary body practically every year. On the Committee on Demography, Sports and Youth, I have just presented and announced and said that the report for the last two years is over, it is in the process and will be in about 10-15 days, I suppose, for the longest to a month at the assembly. Otherwise, I have to say, in fact, the last report was submitted in 2013. Since 2013 no report has been submitted to the Croatian Assembly on the work of the National Sports Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34729	The next replica is the respect of MP Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34730	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my replica is on the line of the replica given by a distinguished colleague. How often does the National Sports Council meet? So I know that the last year, the year of the crown, and when, or Covida, it wasn't possible, but it was possible according to the different applications that they were. So how often does it meet, how much is it at the level of a year because if the last report was made in two years, then you know something about it, how much has it affected the decisions, how much does it affect today? We see that the Olympic Games are on the threshold, we see that some of the things in Japan are very unusual that happen, they really have consequences for us. What is the role of the National Sports Council because it is not just us MPs when it is appointed every 6 months, every 2 years 6 new ones are appointed, but that we also debate It's not about form, it's about content. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34731	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34732	I thank the honourable MPs for the question, of course I have some information about it, about this report, I have it here for 2020, for 2019 is in as I said in the procedure. It will be united in 2019 and 2020 and will be delivered. It does not mean that it is not within the authority of the state authority, the authorities of the state administration are already in the authority of the Assembly of the National Sports Council that it submits the report. However, I can say a concrete answer to the question at least by what I see. The National Sports Council held 12 sessions during 2020, but what is more important here has a whole series of acts that they have done through these sessions and that they meet regularly and indeed have a comprehensive agenda on what will be spoken by the President of the National Sports Council on the day of the meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34733	The next replica is a representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34734	State Secretary National Sports Council, the appointment in this way should be much more serious, in my opinion because sports in the Republic means a lot, of course that we are a sports state and we are proud of our athletes, but it is not a great situation in sport. I heard here somewhere you read that he was some sort of football trial coordinator is the judge of some kind that he was or someone like that. And you know what's most unpopular in the Republic of Croatia? Judges in football. So this whole story would be much better for me if a programme were presented in the way of this national council and these candidates by saying that it was done in this crown by athletes with great injustice, mostly younger, younger and younger age in sports, so I expect the National Council to react to some decisions that make a couple of bodies like the national headquarters with Beros and the team in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34735	Dear Secretary of State, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34736	I thank you for the question, so I just have to praise the National Sports Council in some way for this term, or in these last year, the crisis year for the Croatian dispute with a whole series of initiatives and proposals and according to the National Civil Protection Staff and towards the HZJZ, of course also towards the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, and have indeed been proactive and wanted to move at all costs for at least one millimeter of the state in sport which is not exactly wonderful and which, of course, follows the fate of the entire society and the sport itself in the Republic of Croatia cannot be beyond the time and space in which it is located as I have said to our entire society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34737	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34738	Well, since we don't have that report yet, do you think it's true that the National Sports Council is working hard enough on the promotion, expansion and new opportunities of amateur sports, taking into account the imbalance that exists between professional sports and amateur sports. And do you think local and regional self-government units finance amateur sports enough?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34739	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34740	I appreciate the question. I'll take the easy question. It's this last one. Personally, I don't think they're funding enough and I personally think it might be much better in some way, but it's definitely not even in the National Sports Council's jurisdiction or in the authority of the state administration's authority, but it's already in charge, and there are conversations ahead. As you know, we're in the works, and I announced it the last time I was here at a session of assembly making or finishing work on making a new Sport Act. We will try to mean both through this segment and through that main state act or the Sport Act to try in some way to help the sport system. Of course we can't go into the funding of the state administration's body, but we'll also try to get the representatives of the state administration's body to even it out in some way and be as balanced as the funding of sports by those bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34741	The next replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34742	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State this time we live in, and this is the time of the Coronal epidemic itself is enough and among the greatest effects has just had on sports, so here I have to congratulate you and the Ministry this way, and normally and centrally before all the efforts to hold big sports competitions, and the normal and training of our top athletes, but here are a lot of the athletes themselves, athletes and clubs calling out for the new Sport Act. You didn't mention him in the opening explanation of this National Council. We know that only the National Council is working under the Sport Act, so I would like only two words in which we are in the process of adopting a new Sport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34743	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34744	I thank you, Mr. Representative. We are meaning in some final phase of drafting a proposal of the Law on Sport which should, as we have said, and as planned by the Croatian Government's legislative activity in the last quarter of this year. So, we will try everything in our power to do this before, and more importantly, we will try to open up as wide a debate as possible because what we would like to achieve is that this Sport Act is adopted in the assembly by a large majority, if not by consensus, because it should in some way create and pave the way and develop a Croatian sport that has brought so much and contributed to the promotion of the Republic of Croatia in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34745	And the last replica of the respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, here and colleagues have already concluded that our athletes have been living and working under very difficult circumstances for a year. It's kind of a focus on these professional, but what about amateur clubs and what the National Sports Council has done as the most professional body to help amateur clubs that have to maintain some kind of cold drive, there are no measures for them. So they don't just lose enthusiasm, they don't just have a lot of different problems, they also have serious financial problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34747	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34748	I appreciate the question. So, I would if I were allowed a little bit just to clarify the definition of professional and amateur sport. I think professional sport in Croatia may be 1, 2, 3% of all Croatian sports. So, we, we prefer to treat it in some way as a top-of-the-line and amateur sport, but definitely both suffer the great consequences of, of course, this general pandemic that has hit us. I think that when we were doing the measures in the spring in the first wave of the pandemic, and, of course, the ones we're doing now, we didn't share sports at clubs top-of-the-line, like this, sport like everyone could and everyone could have participated in those measures that the state has provided as such, which is in the system of maintaining the employment of the profession in those sports clubs. So we didn't share whether it was amateur clubs or high-end sports clubs or whatever you say professionally. You too could respond to these measures of ours and make them come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34749	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, so first, on behalf of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34750	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard and heard from the National Sports Council is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia and one of the tasks of this body is to discuss issues of importance for sport, proposing and encouraging the adoption of measures to improve sport. And in principle, we all agree now that both the National Council and all our athletes have been working in extremely demanding and difficult circumstances for the past year. It's not just about keeping jobs, there's other costs, mostly the cost of renting space, the direct costs so that they have serious financial problems. I don't have to remind anyone in particular that for the past year, a large number of our children have been deprived of normal exercise and sports activities. Croatia boasts of its athletes, top-notch, professional, whatever we call them with their successes. They are also great patriots and promote Croatia around the world, we are all proud of them with enthusiasm to celebrate with them their victories and we are also sad, sad when they lose. Let us remember Fire, tennis players, table-tensers, Janice and Ivica Kostelic, handball players, water-police, rowers, sailors, athletes, gymnasts, paralympics and many others who would really not have stopped at this exhibition for ten minutes, but they were all once children and their first sports steps began in some school hall, most likely because most of our clubs do not have their own rooms and use school halls, often in some evenings after recreation. A year ago in the European Parliament, the proposal for a resolution on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on youth and sports was also found to be the same that this epidemic hit stakeholders hard both in professional and amateur sports. And she also had a devastating impact on stakeholders in non-profit sports who face existential threats because they do not have a financial reserve, they often depend exactly on volunteers who invest their free time and most importantly their enthusiasm in these activities. In addition to the economic particularly important social role of sport, we must never forget it. Then Zeljana Zovko, our representative in the European Parliament, said: "Sport is not only an important aspect of a healthy lifestyle, it connects people and contributes to economic and social development. With established health measures many sports associations are both professionally and amateurly unable to continue their activities. We want to provide them with the opportunity to enjoy their favorite sports activities as soon as the virus is under control." What does that mean, what does that syntagma mean when the virus is controlled? Does that mean zero infected, five infected, ten infected? It's one general phrase, it can mean anything and everything. The virus won't go away, the virus is there, we need to learn to live with that virus, and that phrase when the virus is controlled by our children who are engaged in sports doesn't really mean anything. The absurd decisions of headquarters over the past year have been thrown into despair by a number of sports workers, a number of sports enthusiasts who are working on a volunteer base with children and a good part of them has given up and we must be aware of that and we must say it openly. It's going to take a lot of effort to get things back, not to say the old normal, but normal, because as counterpart Dark Taritash often says, this isn't a new normal, this is insane. They are also numerous at the edge of bankruptcy because they pay rent for places where they are not allowed to work on the basis of the headquarters decision. Agonia continues from month to month for amateur sports. How is it possible to open casinos where, among other things, they stay and addicts? We all know gambling and betting is an addiction that often destroys family and this serious addiction. We also witness the numerous statements of experts that point to an increased number of people with problems related to mental illness because every crisis is dangerous for people, we don't all deal equally with this really elevated various stress. It is not particularly important to highlight the negative impact of such a family atmosphere on children’s development. However, a little more attention should be paid to the negative consequences these measures have on sports, sports workers, children, family life and ultimately society as a whole. It would make sense that we already have a plan to revitalise and save sports activities. The fact is, the ministry has proposed measures, they haven't been adopted, and I'm here right now and I'm appealing you to continue and I support you in that. We must enable our children to practice sports because sports is important for their psychophysical development. If you add a line of teaching and as much time as our children spend in front of computers because of these difficult circumstances, then sports is something that is necessary and that we need to secure our children urgently in order to ensure quality psychophysical development. We all pride ourselves on the successes of our athletes, but let's not forget they were all children once who were ready to sacrifice their free time, hanging out with their peers just because they loved sports. This enthusiasm needs to be nurtured, it needs to be helped to develop, it needs to be invested in it because maybe those children will be top athletes, maybe they won't, maybe they'll be just recreationals, maybe they'll be sporting employees, but we can't boast about the successes of our athletes, be grateful for the promotion they're working for Croatia as a tourist destination, and on the other hand defend our children from training in school halls for a year. And here's another appeal to provide our children with an environment in which they will develop all theiraffinities and abilities as well as sports. In a way, we steal their future and do so under the care of their health. Let's not do this because if sports are good for health, how will we ever justify these decisions? No matter what the report the colleagues were talking about was supposed to be before, but here I see that the Secretary of State has some knowledge, I believe the report will come quickly to our benches, so we as the Home Movement Club will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34751	Thank you very much. We've gone a little bit wide again, stick to the resolution and appointment of part of the National Sports Council. The next one will be a respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34752	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. We have before us the resolution of six members of the National Sports Council and the appointment of new six members of which are four old, and the two are new, then something with the name is wrong because the wrong name is then listed, the same name... I think two are just the same last name. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't want to do this with the secretary of state right now, but I think it's four old and two new, only one has the same last name, so now it's a coincidence or I won't get into it. I'm going to discuss something that's formal and something that's contextual. So, this is the form of the 2006 Sport Act, so it was last updated in 2013 it's one of those laws that hasn't been very much complemented lately, and apparently the time has come for the new Sport Act has its own art. 4. which was defined as the basis of the law found for the National Council to have a president, that there are 12 members to be six plus six so to rotate and these are old-new. This old-new has made me particularly intrigued because somehow when it comes to the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb when I was studying it was called a little different, it's always the one that's the dean. But what bothered me is this, so we have 13 members, of the 13 council members are two women. We all know that it is from the level of world organisations, including European organisations, and our organisations are always talking about greater participation of women, not only in sports but also in certain governing bodies. So, when you look a little bit, it would be interesting to see at the head of the national alliances about the sport of how many women and how many men there are. I was in one term or not during the entire term of the president of an alliance that is traditionally defined as male, and I was president of it. There were several presidents in Europe at the time, but that's less important. I'd like to really take care of it, not because of the form, but because of the content, the way someone chose their representative chose him the way he did, and we saw that there was a respected former athlete running for office. I usually think it's extremely important that former athletes get as much active as possible at the end of their careers as possible in the National Sports Council. So you also have different distances depending on which sport you are engaged at European and world level where it is good. Good that the experiences they have continue, it's good because they've been through some things and I think that's why it's important. So, what would we, myself, and the three MPs that we are in so-called. The women's club, and we're making two parties from the Centre and GLAS like to take advantage of this opportunity when we're changing six representatives to be one of those representatives, I'm sure there would be interested women who could only contribute. But to do that, I might refer to what we see all the time, what's going on in Japan. In Japan, the following are the Olympic Games and there's some message that was even from some body that it's good to have more women, but to be there and keep quiet because it says that women talk a lot, and as men do something. I'm kind of without wanting to offend anyone, and it seems to me that in real life it's a little different. No matter what Vice President of the Parliament said, we're not moving away from the subject, I'd like a little bit of content. So what the National Sports Council is doing is extremely important, it's extremely important, and it has a certain consequence of doing sports from the earliest age because in order for you to get to some top athlete, I call them top athletes because someone in their sport can become a professional athlete, and someone will never become a athlete in this age of crowns is made and I have to commend, so I've made an effort. And it's also made an effort with coaches, but what makes one sport, makes athletes, makes coaches and makes infrastructure. If athletes can't train, if I can't train that base you can have both coaches and infrastructure but there won't be any results. I'm very afraid that behind this crown will be even with children who have been sitting at home for a year. You always hear, you have an opportunity to feel my friend says I have a nephew who goes to fifth grade, em's all the time on online teaching, em's all the time at home, so if we don't do anything else, we'll go on weekends to Sljemen to deal with any kind of activity. Knowing that today's topic is that I, in free speech, compared 6 graduates who are more than 18 and who can go to the casino at the casino, but I can't go to the gym behind school and play hack 3 to 3, I can't go back to one of them and study together because there are 6 different households. So, I think there was one of the roles of the National Sports Council and I think that when measures were being set and when the headquarters determined that there was also the role of the National Sports Council. A lot of professors from the Faculty of Kinesiology, a lot of sports workers pointed to the fact, here I look at colleagues who, for example, from Split in Split, female football team can play or play football at the stadium because in this kind of competition, but let's say that the same stadium could not play sports in the open air. Now the measurements are down, so you can open it, but you can't go in jail, you can't go in the halls. To me, this is the example of those six seniors who, if they go to the casino, are fine, but if they play the hacks are in one hall 3 to 3 are in violation. I'll never understand that. You know that several times I've asked Minister Beros and here when it was in the type of sailing, so that sailing optimist lasts until 15 years there will still be no competition. The competitions must be by summer, which must be for that category because in the summer if it is a tourist season, those sail coaches will go to be skippers because they will go to make some money to survive next year but.../incomprehensible./... I think the role of the National Sports Council is to deal with all levels of sport. So, and the role was that when the headquarters made a decision not to question us from this pay phone so we're politicians but actually to contact and say give my people a break, we know exactly who's going to enter the hall, we can register exactly who's going to enter the hall, let go, let go because we're going to have a problem and that problem will be seen further. One problem I took last chance when there was a secretary of state, and I'm gonna take it now. In public space, of course, we have a topic of who was vaccinated over the line and who wasn't vaccinated across the line. And here I'm going to repeat again and I think it's between the other roles and the National Sports Council, and that's what we already have defined athletes going to the Olympics, we have defined coaches going with them, we know who their escort will be, these people have to be recorded, and they have to be vaccinated or split with Covid-19 in the third or fourth months. We can't afford to spend a lot of money, and it's a lot of money, that they go to Tokyo, and that there's a Covid or a crown in Tokyo. We have a promising young skier who is now at the World Cup who can't perform because she has a crown. So she got there, the money was spent to get there, and she's got a crown. Waterpolices if they succeed in doing what they missed to do and get to the Olympics only if one waterpolytist has a crown the entire team will be expelled from the Olympic or will not be able to perform at the Olympic Games. In individual sports, no individual can. It must not happen that someone is accompanied by Tokyo without being split in time. So he has to, he doesn't have to be split up now in February but make sure that on the list of priorities in the third month or to determine that in the third month and the fourth month, everyone going to Tokyo has to split up because in this way we ensure the conditions that they can deal with what they are dealing with, they deal with sport. So, ultimately in these half minutes. The form would be more incomparable if a woman had found among the six names, and she had been and competed, and behind her was an envious sports career, someone had chosen her from someone else. The second thing, don't just experience this assembly as handlifters, so when something's good we'll raise our hands, we'd like it to come after 2013, because the law says at least once a year the National Council delivers a report on its work. 2013 is the last, now it's 2021 Well, at least for 2020, we have this report. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34753	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Bacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34754	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, as we have heard in the opening presentation, and we have a few decisions about the resolutions and appointments of members of the National Sports Council itself, it is important to stress normally here, as my colleague before me pointed out, that we enter a little bit of matter, and that we discuss a little bit about the detour itself and the tasks of the National Sports Council itself, which is nevertheless the most professional body that cares about the development and quality of sports in the Republic and its detour which should also be from amateurism itself to the top sport in Croatia. This is exactly the national council according to the very Law on Sports of its Article 4 has a president and 12 members. They are appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament and by 6 members on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 3 members on a proposal from the Croatian Olympic Committee, 1 member on a proposal from the Croatian Paralympic Committee, 1 member on a proposal from the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf and 1 member on a proposal from the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb. Every 2 years, the Croatian Parliament appoints 6 members of the National Sports Council, and the president appoints each, every 4 years. As regards compliance decisions, the Croatian Parliament then made a decision on the appointment of the National Sports Council president and members at its meeting. And as 6 of the previous members of the National Council expires on February 15, 2021, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the members of the National Sports Council themselves at its meeting in February, and they are in favour. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall forward proposals for the appointment of the remaining 5 members of the National Sports Council, which shall be proposed by the authorising officers themselves, in accordance with the Sport Act itself. The metrics of the National Sports Council, the tasks carried out by this body in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with the Ministry, and here with the Croatian Assembly which appoints and resolves its members, are important to highlight exactly all of the competences it owns, only national councils and which are of great importance and which I believe in the future report that here I think we are preparing and will soon come to the Croatian Parliament and that we may be able to discuss some suggestions, improve or highlight some of the issues that we are interested in today, at the time of the pandemic and the crown, where we see that the sport is under the greatest pressure and that in the sport competitions and the preparation of top athletes, the biggest problems of which we will see this year, at the end of this year, and the next year when our representatives performs in the major competitions, but also our high-end athletes are in front of the Olympics. As regards the tasks of the National Sports Council, it discusses issues of importance for sport, proposes, encourages measures to be taken to improve sport, gives the Government's opinion on a draft proposal for a national sport programme, gives an opinion on priority projects, labs, studies to be financed in the public need system for sport, sets out guidelines for the making of rules on the categorisation of athletes themselves, gives an opinion on programmes, training for professional work in sport, proposes the conditions to be met, certain institutions for training of sports staff, lays down guidelines for the construction and categorisation of sports buildings at the level of the state, gives an opinion and recommendations on the draft rules relating to sport, gives an opinion on the draft of a network of sports buildings in the search of the Ministry itself responsible for the development of regulations relating to the construction and categorisation of sports in the case of citizenship in Croatia prior to the rule of law of law and the law of law of law, as regards to the law of law of law relating to the law of law of law of law and of sport. As far as the resolution is concerned, these are colleagues Ante Baković, Mario Meštrović, Tomislav Grahovac, Ratko Kovačić, Mario Lušić and Tomislav Krističević and the appointment of Ante Baković, Tomislav Grahovec, Marija Vukoja, Ratko Kovačić, Oliver Lušić, Tomislav Krističević. In addition to the very proposal for these decisions, we have candidates and their very applications, the very lives that we have received in support of, and something that the Secretary of State himself, in that explanation of these decisions, has pointed out who these candidates are, in fact, how much of a connection they are. how much they were as sports workers or athletes themselves and will contribute to the work of the National Council itself tomorrow. As for the time in which we are also located on the very pandemics of the Crown, I have already pointed out that the great pressure has just been on both the Ministry and the Olympic Committee and all our alliances, the sports alliances that are related to the preparation of our individual top athletes and our representatives. We have also seen problems in both water polo and water polo, and now we have also related to the Hiduk Football Club, just when we see one part of the team being infected or God forbid more of our athletes how much this leaves to them and about the preparation, training and normal participation in certain competitions that are ahead of them. We have to normally this way definitely, we have talked a lot about the crown and the fitness centers and our citizens and their recreation and the opening of them, but we have to definitely praise the Ministry and the Secretary of State and the former Central Sport Office on all efforts to just and in these times of crisis that the top sport is going on, that preparations for the Olympics are taking place, that the financial resources that our top athletes will need and, normally, that we are not lagging behind in other countries, but that we are not lagging behind in individual preparations because we know what it means in top sports, is one thing with certain clubs or amateurism when someone is out of the system or not able to train for a month or two, we know how much it means to top sports and how much trouble it would potentially bring in the activity itself and preparation of our athletes. I am pleased that in the opening explanation through the replicas the secretary of state pointed out, we had a lot of questions and criticism and certain guidelines that clubs and athletes and certain alliances expect from the new Sport Act. De facto we're at the beginning of the term of office in the first year, and I believe that now and by joining the central office in the ministry itself, I think you'd definitely be in the first year or so. Now in this second year of office they could pass a new Sport Act. What is important and as much as we have discussed in the century about this very law and its detour and what it covers and everything, I have to agree with the secretary of state and make this application to make this public debate as good as possible, to include as many of our sports people and normal athletes as possible to bring their experiences to an end to all the disagreements and all the problems that top sports have today, to put a great emphasis on the amateur part of the sport, but here I must also stress here on the university sport that can definitely be one of the high-quality young people and young athletes who will promote quality and active participation in society, but normal and healthy life. I believe that this year we will at least discuss it in public consultation, but also through working groups and committees this new Sport Act, and I believe that at the end of the year or next year, he will come to the session of the Parliament and that we will open up a broad debate and be so good that we agree on it and be consensual. All in all, the HDZ club supports these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34755	The next club of representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't talk about sports today, or recreational sports, or student sports, all of these are very expensive topics for me, and I'll talk about them gladly and extensively when there's a moment. Today, however, I wouldn't want it to be clouded, if we hadn't clouded what we're talking about today. Six members of the National Sports Council expired three days ago and the decision to resolve them is quite formal and there is nothing disputed about it. But the second part of this appointment thing actually looks more like a joke, and it's really hard to believe that this proposal is serious because of the six members we're solving today, four of them are proposed to a new mandate, and that's even for four years. Now, in the résumés of some candidates, you can't quite find such an exceptional feature that it follows that these people deserve new mandates. For example. One candidate was after only two years of work at the Intelligence Agency and then another year as secretary at the HDZ centre, and these were all his previous sports achievements, and then the candidate became the president of our most trophy volleyball club, and in his own own words, I quote from his resume "started his own sports career". At least that's how we learned that sports careers don't only happen to top athletes or sports pedagogists or sports fans, sports careers can be successfully built out of the intelligence community or the HDZ centre, but good. If biographies are not the most important, perhaps hard work is what is hard work in the previous term, what has ruled. Is working and advocacy in the last term possible to earn a new one. Art. 3. The law on sports lists exactly ten tasks, or tasks that the National Sports Council performs, and here my colleague quoted them before me as saying by the law. Have any of these tasks been accomplished in the past two years? Did the National Sports Council execute it? We don't know, and it's not quite easy to find out. Art. 2nd century. 5th century. The Law on Sports states that "The National Sports Council adopts the Annual Programme for the Implementation of the National Sport Programme." The National Programme of Sports was adopted on 12 July 2019 for a period of seven years, and is to be adopted by law for the period from 2019 to-2026. Has the National Sports Council adopted the Annual Implementation Plan for 2020 and 2021? It doesn't seem to be, but we're not even sure. Art. 4th century. 6th century. The law on sports states that "the National Sports Council responsible for the HS to which it reports at least once a year." Has the National Sports Council submitted a report to the Parliament this year or last year or before? It's not. The secretary of state said in his statement that this was in preparation for a two-year report. I repeat, my colleague Bacic quoted the law, the law says at least once a year. When the last time the National Sports Council submitted a report to the Parliament, I really don't know. What does it actually do, how does the National Sports Council live? Does that have any rules, any regulations, any sessions, any record of those sessions? With considerable effort you can find a document on the Internet that contains nothing more than the dates of the held sessions and literally nothing more. Of course, they were kept at a distance for known reasons. Does the National Sports Council have any work plan, any financial plan, financial report? Do members of the National Sports Council receive any compensation for their work? Is that fee if there's too much or too much? I don't know. I guess a little who knows. Even Google, who was usually well informed, didn't know how to help me. Now maybe not the other councils, not the other councils in this, at this time pandemics weren't the most active, maybe they weren't the most agile. The hand to the heart of time especially for sport was not.../incomprehensible/... because many plans had to be reprogrammed or the measures had to be reprogrammed, so they might have to be reprogrammed, but what really bothers the whole story and can't be forgiven is the lack of work reports. And not one, but more, in years. Reports to this same home that are now being asked for no more than a re-election of members who have not submitted that report. So how do we figure that out? How different than neglect and underestimation and arrogance. And a lot will have to change in approach to support future such and similar appointments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34757	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the MOST on behalf of whom the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34758	And my initial objection is on the trail of what my colleague Bakic was saying and it's similar to what I referred to when we talked about the sports inspection. We can't take the work of the assembly to a simple show. We cannot discuss the National Sports Council without knowing what the National Sports Council has done in the previous period so that we can decide on the trust of its present and future members. We can't discuss sports inspection without getting a report on the work of a sports inspection in the past period on which we could decide what legal changes we need to make this sport inspection work better. This is increasingly manifested as a paradigm, as a rule of assembly functioning, not as an exception in individual drafts, proposals or additions to the law. That way you can't and can't work. We don't want to agree to this practice. As far as the National Sports Council is concerned, it is not just such an institution, it is an institution which, as well as the National Council, science is a roof institution and has a very important role in society. It is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Its tasks are, I will assign some here, and according to this, when we are talking about the appointment of new members, I would like to state what I consider to be the priority tasks of the National Sports Council and what should be dedicated specifically to the National Sports Council in the coming period, given that it will be one of the most difficult tasks in the time that awaits us, because it was precisely sport during this pandemic that was the most neglected, most neglected, and key activity for the health of our citizens. The National Sports Council should discuss issues of importance for sport and propose and encourage measures to improve sport, give an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a draft proposal for a national sport programme and projects, labs and studies that will be financed in the system of public needs in sport and others of great importance, but more concrete and specific tasks. What should the National Sports Council do in the future? The priority task of the National Sports Council must certainly be the evaluation of the consequences of the Coronal crisis in sport and indirectly in cooperation, inter-resorship cooperation that we miss over the rest of the ministries, the consideration of health consequences of not engaging in sports for the health of our citizens, especially in terms of obesity, because I will remind you that in Croatia, 35% of children aged 8 to 9 years with excessive body weight and thickness and we are according to statistics among the famous first 5 European countries with this problem. In Croatia, 35% of girls and 38.7% of boys according to HZZ have excessive body mass and thickness, with the largest share of girls with this problem in continental Croatia 35.6%, while in the Adriatic region the most overweight boys live 42.2%. It's our public health bomb. Our biggest public health problem. This crisis has deepened. In addition to being deepened by the inability to practice sports, what the council should particularly focus on in the new mandate is on the social inequalities that the crown produced and potentiated in view of the measures introduced to prevent the spread of the virus. I will remind you that the above measures made it impossible, made it impossible to practice sports within institutions at the beginning of the adoption of the measures themselves, since they could not adapt to so-called. The school model C, while the sport could continue in, outside school institutions. This has led to an unequal situation, which in fact raised the question of children's rights, children who are lower social status and who could at all engage in sports exclusively within public institutions compared to children who are engaged in sports as out-of-school activities who can afford it within individual sports clubs. With the new measures that went towards tightening most sports clubs apart from professional athletes, she discriminated against all amateur sports fans. In this sense, the most injured children who are developing, who have not only deepened this public health problem of obesity but also failed at some periods of key formation of habits and create active sports habits that will only need to be compensated now to see which direction Croatia needs to develop and how to solve this burning problem, the priority of this National Council is just a review of the crisis that the Crown has caused in the field of sport with an emphasis on public institutions because this is the National Sports Council. The second issue the National Council should also address is sports and politics. So, what is the basic problem in the world of sport and I regret that we did not have a sports inspection report that should have acted as a sports BOOK, while lately it has proved to be an institution that no longer works in the public interest at all in the sense that its work is recognised as one that reveals potential sports and justice affairs relations when it comes to sports and politics. Who's above the law anyway? How do we treat our top athletes at social recognition level, but also at the level of that controversial political recognition? We will remember our top football players where they were at all question whether they should be given and what kind of testimony they have given in view of some sports affairs because the social tendency, but then the work of the courts went in the direction that we are not all equal before the law, so those who have done more, let's say in the field of sport should not be processed in the area of some other corrupt affairs because there is a need to recognise what they have done elsewhere. The question of sports culture is, in particular, what sport or the Sports Council should deal with. The question of sports culture is a key issue for sport development, especially if we have in mind that sports communities will most shape young generations as they have done before. Sports culture is a culture of sports, but also a culture of sports and cheerleading culture. In this sense, the National Sports Council as a roof institution that cares for the development and quality of sport should promote the quality of sports related to healthy competence and which strongly condemn and go towards the destruction of negative social phenomena that are also side effects within the world of sport, which is different forms of discrimination that sometimes occur within fan groups. The National Sports Council should also be recognised in an adequate way to valorise exactly what happened indirectly throughout the world of sport, which is all of our fan associations which have played a key role during this last crisis and should consider whether a concrete recognition can be given to their work to encourage such behaviour in the future and to encourage a wider community that is firmly connected, which is linked to the celebration and affirmation of sports to act socially useful in some other areas, not only in this isolated case but also in the future. The National Sports Council owns all the necessary tools to identify such a thing and adequately reward it's just a question of whether or not they'll catch Cairos for the plugper, will they recognize this social political moment and do something like that? I will conclude with what I started with, I hope that these recommendations can be respected, but that we can also have a more serious and systematic debate on the National Sports Council so that we will get a report on their work, just as we will get a report on the work of sports inspection as we get on the work of an educational inspection so that these discussions in the Assembly would not be just a dead letter on paper and some common self-sufficient performance of ourselves as something useful and fruitful for all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34759	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Romana Nikolic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34760	Thank you, Vice President. At today's session, we are discussing a proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the National Sports Council members, which expired on 15 February 2021. It is a member appointed to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, two members appointed on the proposal of the HOO and one member appointed to the proposal of the HPO, the Croatian Sports Federation of the Deaf and Kinesiological Faculty of the University of Zagreb. We will also discuss today the proposal for a decision to appoint a part of the National Sports Council, which the Government established at its session held on 4 February 2021 in accordance with a public call published. Since we do not often have the opportunity to talk about sports in HS, I believe that this session today should be used maximumly to improve the working conditions for our athletes and athletes and to point out how important sport is for the preservation of healthy life and society. We especially felt it in this pandemic when in one part of the year we had limited movement, as well as closed activities and facilities that were closely related to sport. I believe that you will all agree that sport is the biggest and best promoter of Croatia in the world and thank all athletes and athletes who achieve excellent results on the pride of all of us in Croatia. It would also highlight the problem of financing Croatian sport and how it is of great priority to create a society of equal opportunities for everyone in which every child in their part of Croatia will have the opportunity to play sports. Experience from the field shows us that the situation is alarming, that a large number of sports clubs are thinking about whether to even engage in competitions in some higher leagues because they simply don't have the conditions to play sports or whether their finances are insufficient to participate. And then what happens? All the burdens of younger age fall on parents who have to finance or torture themselves for seeking sponsorship. We also need to be aware of the fact that many parents are unable to finance it, which ultimately leads to the child being denied the ability to practice sports. We have an excellent example of our bronze handballs who despite all the problems and lack of resources, managed to knock down the stereotype that female sports is less interesting than men and proved to deserve media attention and investment in women's sports. Croatia has a National Programme for Sport Development aimed at addressing the problem of financing, infrastructure, professional staff, care for top athletes. The same national programme also states that both male and female sports should be accompanied equally. Then why isn't it in practice? She would now return to the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Sports Council. Those who have been resolved have again been appointed members of the council. What is asked is, by what criteria were they chosen for the first time and now these same members? These are names we have no grudges about, each of them is a good piece of work to contribute to sport, was like a athlete, was like a functioner. But what leaves doubt to the determination of the election is their work over the past few years and we know nothing about it because we haven't received a report on the work. How is it even possible to discuss something and give consent to continue to work and we have no insight into their work in the past term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34761	Thank you, we are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34762	So we've all pointed out the same problem that needs to be re-absorbed and that's the fact that we have another play of debate instead of a debate that has content, which is because there's no report on the work of the National Sports Council on which we could have a substance debate. However, I would like to refer to another question which is of particular interest to the National Sports Council, and what is the problem that we will become more and more in the future and which I do not find adequate and sufficient answer in the Croatian public space, which is also going on to the soul in some way the National Sports Council, because it should be that you dictate these at least scientific trends in sport, filter them further into public debate. I will remind the National Sports Council once more, there are other than members of the Croatian Parliament proposal and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Olympic Committee, one member on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Alliance of Deaf and one member on the proposal of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb and also one member on the proposal of the Croatian Paralympic Committee. What does that tell us? The National Sports Council has been established in a way that includes athletes who are active in sports, who operate within existing institutions and athletes who also operate within sports institutions but who have specific needs such as athletes who are in the Sports Alliance of the Deaf and such as athletes who operate within the Croatian Paralympics Committee. This is positive because it shows that the National Sports Council is socially sensitive and that it respects the fact that we do not all have the same start-ups, given biological predisposition to sports but it should not discourage us either, and those institutions should allow those who are not with the same start-up biological predisposition to be able to engage in sport at all. And such a National Sports Council encourages all people with difficulties to actively engage in the awareness of sports. But what's the problem? The problem is that sports today, especially modern sports, you could hear this from a number of athletes who later fought depression and who gave up the professional world of sports, promote something else. So in theory, we have a socially sensitive sport that takes care of all vulnerable social groups. In practice, sport primarily encourages a Darwinist model. It promotes a model of a physically perfect individual who constantly exceeds his possibilities but not only in this biological sense within the potential of his own capabilities but more and more and more different, unauthorized and often hidden means, so I refer to... to the world of doping which today is very much present in this professional sport and which is often also the creator of the top results but also the one that imposes the standards that we all have to meet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then where's the problem? By propagating overcoming our biological capabilities, by not exercising the limits of our biological capabilities, it is a positive side of sport and should be affirmed, we are actually sending a social message that is contrary to the way members of the National Sports Council are elected and which is socially insensitive, moreover, discriminatory. We send a message that all those who are not biologically perfect should get out of the world of sports because there is no room for them in that sport. So, if the National Sports Council wants to act on the trail of what is nominally advocating the selection of its members, it must work more on the affirmation of social diversity and the fact that we are not all biologically perfect but nevertheless, we should have the same right to practice sports to strengthen the opportunities of our spirit that often exceed our biological imperfections. It is one of the main tasks of the National Sports Council in a time-marked techno-science that goes towards propagating human biological and physical perfection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34763	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your presentation has caused three replicas, the first in line is the distinguished representative of Nina Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34764	Dear MPs. I would like the National Sports Council or some of its prominent members to be public in these almost a year of crown crisis and measures that have gone to a lot of sports, not only sport in terms of top sports but I am talking about health dimension now, so those strange and illogical decisions where the work of the bookies seems more important to us than opening school sports halls or recreation halls or all that was before because of the sport, I am not just talking about the top sport that has its own economic dimension, because thanks to the sport of the country that played the World Cup finals, everyone in the world knows about it, but I am talking about the health and educational dimension of sports that which was the sport of children, schoolboys and sports recreationals. It seems to me that the National Sports Council should not have kept silent for the last year about the measures being taken, which went against physical recreational and sports activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34765	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34766	My colleague Rasudic, you've been playing all the time. The casinos aren't here to gamble if we're going to listen to our prime minister. Maybe the casinos are right here to play sports. We should ask our prime minister, since he has highlighted his new creative reach, all interpretations seem possible. I will agree with you, I think that the National Sports Council has made a thorough appointment in that it was not the manager of the correction of inequality within at all allowing the work of certain sports facilities and banning certain other sports facilities and discrimination of different types of athletes in relation to which they may and may not work during the crown, they should have been a regulatory body because they are the most professional body concerned with the development and role of sports in the Republic, and they did not justify that role in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34767	Thank you. Next in line is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34768	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I've been listening to your presentations on behalf of the club and now this and I see that you've criticised the National Sports Council a lot and you've looked back at a part of the sport that is actually unprofessionalism. Unfortunately, this professionalism, unfortunately, tended to extend to amateurism in the professionalism and dispelment of children and young people from sports. In fact, amateurism that used to be really amateurism is becoming semi-professional today because these kids and young people and people who do sports in amateur clubs pay for some kind of money, attract to their clubs, and actually what you said is happening, and that's that those who have less abilities just get out of that sport because they can't find them because those who pay came here. In your opinion, what should be done by the National Council to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34769	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34770	I appreciate the question. I will agree with the need to strengthen amateur sport because it is a primary and health issue, i.e. the harmony of the mind and body, is what enables productivity at any level. So we can't do anything without sports. What do I think we should do? I think that amateur sport is somehow cornered by the fact that it cannot satisfy, for example, the penalties and the different criteria imposed because there is not enough difference within the law that refers to the specific needs of amateur sport compared to professional sport according to its financial opportunities. So if the state really wants more healthy citizens and less threatening children, and this is our serious and fundamental and biggest public health problem then it must find some relief measures for amateur sports that will not then force those who are headed by these institutions to force that sport into professionalisation to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34771	Thank you very much. And the last replica in this set, Reverend Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34772	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. The National Sports Council in the last year when the coronary crisis was actually supposed to be loud, it's an important body where it was discriminated against while they were promoted as said casinos, I don't know trade chains because the sport kids couldn't deal with. The reasons for this discrimination against children mainly, as you mentioned in the sport could... they couldn't use the hall, they could go I don't know elsewhere. Which is why, which is why in this way we are brought here the names of the people that we will raise obediently without any program, without a previous period of what these former members have done and what are left and what are coming here, simply turned us here into some kind of machine that will raise your hand, and we are actually aware that discrimination is in sport and territorial and according to certain groups in Croatia never more visible than now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34773	Thank you. Here's your distinguished representative, Selak Raspoudić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34774	The fact that there are mechanisms that allow any amendment, a proposal for new members or a new bill of vote in this House to be justified does not justify a way of acting that makes it impossible to discuss any appointment and goes even to this impertinence that it does not even have to offer any arguments to be accepted in the Assembly. The National Sports Council is not the only one who will not be here, nor will we have the right to single it out especially in this way, in the sense that it is particularly worse than anything else that we most often vote here. It is only due to the misrepresentation and destruction of the Parliament's basic task, which is a reasoned, fruitful debate on any issue that comes here on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34775	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates, the next is the distinguished representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34776	Thank you, Vice President. I pointed out earlier in the debate on behalf of the club that we do not often have the opportunity to talk about sports in HS and that I believe that this session today should be used maximum to improve the working conditions for our athletes and to indicate how important sport is for the preservation of health, the healthy development of the child from the youngest age and the acquisition of the condition and promotion of Croatia. As I came from Osijek, in today's debate, I would say how much sport there is in our lives. Sports trails are already in Rome's Mursa, and the history of sports can be traced since the 18th century. The first sport that played a more significant role in Osijek, at the end of the 18th century, was shooting. Later on, with shooting, sports show up gymnastics, swimming, cycling and rowing, while new sports such as football, handballs, classrooms and boxing appear in the 20th century. A number of sports societies and clubs testify about the importance of sports in Osijek. What is especially proud of the town of Osijek is the Pampas range located in the western part of Osijek along the Drava coast. It was opened in 1985, and it was built for the purposes of the 1985 European Shooting Championship, whose homestead was the city of Osijek. Osijek organized the championship and the occasion, then the 200th anniversary of the shootout in Osijek. Then Osijek proved to be an excellent host. Two World Cups, 1988 and 1989, were held in the shooting range before the war, in the discipline of flying targets, “trap skates. ” The shooter has parts where all shooting disciplines can be maintained, so the shooting range has the permission to play all European and world competitions. 2009, 2013 and 2019 Osijek once again hosted the European Shooting Championship. After the shooting of Pampas, it was primarily held in 2019 in the sports hall City Garden which proved to be the perfect range for various shooting competitions, and was successful in the time when it passed the Air Weapons Shooting Championship, which is usually the most demanding shooting discipline as regards the organisational part. Why am I telling you all this and specifically referring to a kind of sport, or shooting? I believe there's little anyone here who knows that Osijek, along with football, has a shooting range. In order not to happen as with the bronze handballs, which in silence went to Denmark, weak media escorted, my obligation and duty as a parliamentary representative from Osijek is to announce that the European Air Weapons Championship will be held in Osijek in May this year, where the best European shooters will gather. I believe that you will all agree that sport is the biggest and best promoter in the world and that all sports in Croatia deserve the same treatment. So, I'll see you in Osijek on Pampas in May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34777	Thank you. We have 3 replicas, the first distinguished representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34778	Dear colleagues, I appreciate your discussion and I appreciate that you have used the situation to point to some neglected sports that can have really positive consequences for young people, not only at the level of this particular sport, but at the level of all the broader psychophysical opportunities that develop through this sport. In this sense, I would like you to look back on what is the primary advantage of shooting for the health of young people, who are developing all their abilities in this particular sport and what is the interest of young people in this sport and do you think that something can be done to improve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34779	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34780	Thank you very much. Well, at first, I'd just point out that apart from shooting, that Osijek has developed sport and rowing, and as far as shooting is concerned, what effect it has for health... A person, right? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intrudica Selak Rasudić: How it improves, everything improves.]] [[/Intruder Voter: Excuse me. Excuse me...]] [[/Intruder Selak Rasdić:...what options. I'm sorry, I was just...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34781	Representative Selak Rasudiæ, please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34782	So the fact that in Croatia shooting, as far as Osijek's shooting is concerned, is not accompanied by, they are, they have many medals for you, but probably a small number of people know, and as far as financing goes, everything depends on the sports alliance, but I can tell you, my friend is a professional shooter and he just told me that at the last championship when they were, that they were ashamed, when they saw other countries, from, as they were equipped, from head to heel, and they were not unfortunately. Here, that should actually be shown, and we all know that football players, we all know what kind of equipment they have. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34783	Thank you. Before we go to the next replica, I would ask only MPs and MPs and representatives of the Bridge to agree which one of them will leave the room because you are one more, given these prescribed conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34784	I'll do it. I'm the oldest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34785	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Next up is the distinguished representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34786	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, dear colleague Nikolic. You mentioned and referred to actually one branch of sport by which Osijek is famous and believe, no matter what you mention, there are many of us who remember the good results that were, Osijek and Osijek, continuously at certain championships. But we always recognize sports through, I call them, top athletes because one of them can become a professional athlete, but one of them deals with sports where it will never be a profession, and the profession will be something else. And that base is important. This base is important, especially in this period of Covid, that is when, if you lose in some training or something, half a year or a year, it's not half a year or a year, there's a lot more, there's in the sport being different, actually account and measure. And that's why, I'm wondering, is now, at least when it's enabled in the open, it's some kind of shift made in Osijek or is there still a problem that children They're dealing with basic sports? [[Thank you. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34787	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34788	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, as for shooting at a pandemic time, now I'm going to get down to, they're the only ones, unlike other sports, lucky they're working out in the open, so they spent the whole year and last year, and this year they trained and that's why they have and they had the last competition last year, last year at 3. I mean, this year they're already getting ready for the 5th month. And it's a big interest in shooting and that club is actually a professional club. That, that, my friend works in, as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34789	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your presentation, the distinguished representative of Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34790	Dear counterpart Nikolic, as a man in whom the city of Osijek is at heart because for years and as a lecturer I am pleased with this positive sports phenomenon that happens finally in that city and it is a strong football club Osijek, which this year very definitely with Dinam will eventually fight for the title of champion. It's something good, we finally got competence right in Croatian football, it's good for Rijeka and Hajduk and other clubs, and for the interest of football both tomorrow and for the team of young people. But this also shows how sport really has the opportunity to give a new elan, a new energy, that both Osijek and Slavonia in general, which was only talked about in a negative sense, economic problems, demographic problems, is becoming an increasingly successful sports story, in a way and the possibility of a rebranding and a new image through this sport and sports success that is happening, both Osijek and Slavonia. I hope that you, especially those who are from there and other MPs, will be able to track whether and the success that will obviously be financially, the NK Osijek To spill to wider and better work with young football schools. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34791	Thank you. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and don't exceed your time. Here you are, the answer, dear representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34792	Thank you, counselor, so I'm glad you're interested in my debate. I can tell by the replicas. Yes, I am very proud that this year, in May, it will be the European Championship and that the best European shooters are coming, and that is why I took advantage of the opportunity to do so in today's debate, to publish it and of course to attend, of course we will follow young people because I have joined many associations myself, so I am also involved in the sport association.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34793	Thank you very much. No more replicas, you can go to the place. We move on, thank you, MP Nikolic. Next reported for the debate is the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, here you are, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34794	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, as in the debate on behalf of the club, I was talking about form and content, so I will continue in this individual debate. So, of the 6 people we change, 5 are defined by law, two representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, one representative of the Croatian Paralympics Committee and one representative of the Croatian Sports Federation and one representative of the University of Zagreb of the Faculty of Kinesiology. In doing so, the law that we refer to from 2006 and now we have the last amendment was in 2013 and we certainly deserve to have a new law or at least change because other than the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, there are two other Chinese universities in Croatia, and I am sure they would like to, or that at least have the opportunity to agree on which one of them will be representative so that they change because it would certainly lead to an improvement in the work of the National Sports Council. And the only place that is where the government's representative gives it is the place that was also a public call. And that public call was made by five people and of course that five people were chosen, the government chose one. And that's where it's already said why it's like that. I wish that really when we talk about sports, we watch what's important to sports and what we want to achieve without that membership card being important. But when it comes to sports, I'm afraid we haven't made a move here, but the membership card is still important. It was supposed to be a place and there were five candidates. There was a candidate who really had references so that everyone would want to be there. It's about the lady, you can look that I don't mention the name, I only know about her what I had the opportunity to hear about her work, she was a long-time professional handmaid and she was a Croatian representative. And let's say that she decided to choose her, it seems to me that it would be one step and show that when it comes to sports, that being a member of a particular party, it doesn't matter, but it's important something else, but here in this case it's not. And the question is why? Why do we view the congregation as just someone who raises a hand or who is just going to confirm certain things? Croatia should finally decide how important sport is. You State Secretary, you know very well that there was little sport within the Ministry so it would be a little bit of the Sports Office so now he's back at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. I personally think that if it had already decided to leave the Ministry of Tourism, that it was good that sport was in there and it would have been good if our athletes and models and promoters had actually helped. What we all know, that in sports never enough money. That when you ask athletes, never enough. It's either for equipment or for travel or for some training. We all see our sport when it comes to the Olympics, when it comes to the European Championship, when it's the World Cup and we have to wonder what's behind it. In order for someone in that sport to be good, it won't happen within a year, there are sports where you can do it more, and you have sports where 15 years of work is behind it, and we all need to ask ourselves who funded those 15 years of work? Parents, a unit of local self-government, some sports alliances. We have athletes, I always like to talk about sports and I always like to talk about sailing because let's say I know a lot about sailing. I know a lot because I have a son who was European champion and third in the sailing world, so he actively participated, and I know what parent means, I know what it means to the alliance, I know what it means to the club from which it comes. We also have Olympic sailing champions, in this Olympics, that crew goes to another band, but you know what the problem is? Let's say our crew, who's already qualified for an OL, someone, is two, something happens to one of them. We don't have to replace that with another because we actually have a top-of-the-line sport, I have a problem base. And that's where I go back to what I said both in the debate and in the name of the club. We had a crown age, COVID, we still have. I expected the National Sports Council to be one of the coordinators, from a mediator who would help the headquarters make some decisions, and I'm afraid it acted as it did to the Parliament. There are no work reports and it's a matter of cooperation with the headquarters. [[Thank you, colleagues.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34795	Thank you. Let's go to the first line, the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34796	Thank you. Dear Representative Dark Taritash. I'd like to ask you about another phenomenon. You have been a parliamentary representative for a long time, and you are active as a parliamentary representative, I would welcome and encourage athletes to participate in politics, and to contribute, but I would not say that this is often the case, and I am more afraid that we are witnessing one of the opposite trends, which is that sports success and someone's media potency due to sports success are often rewarded by political functions, either at the City Assembly level, or at Parliament level, and unfortunately the least benefit comes from Croatian citizens because these athletes do not justify these places by their activities within the institutions. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34797	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34798	Actually, it's a great question. I might answer in two. In one part of the truth we had the opportunity to have parliamentary representatives who were top athletes, we had the opportunity to have someone sitting in the City Assembly of Zagreb who was a top athlete at the time, but was only a handlifter and thus left a bad picture. What you said was that I've been a Parliamentarian for a long time, it seems to you that I've been longer than I am, but that's irrelevant, but I'll tell you my own example. My son was in sports, he was a top athlete, he was a prominent Olympic candidate made a great success, and I begged him to be activated in organisations that are related to sailing in European organisations. He didn't mean to. I still don't understand why he didn't want to. When I was at the head of an alliance, I begged our sailors to activate themselves equally, engage because they can say something about it and not at the level of a particular organization. He won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34799	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34800	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I expected you to say a little more details about the sport you love, we're talking about sailing. Why do you want to talk about it? Because I have some friends from Primor in Dalmatia who have children who have embarked on sailing and are trying to fight for good positions within Croatia on their scales. However, there are great shocks because these children never know whether they will go to the competition or not because it all ultimately depends on parents and how skillful parents are to get donations from certain business entities, from individual craftsmen so that they can go to the competition and that these children can enjoy this sport. I think it should be one of the goals for all sports to develop as evenly as they do, so I ask you to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34801	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34802	Thank you very much for asking. If I started talking about sailing, I think I could start now and end up somewhere around midnight and it wouldn't be enough yet. I always somehow try to speak my own examples. My son, when he was sailing, lived in Zagreb, and he trained partly in Italy, partly in Turkey. He used to go away for the weekend on Fridays there were other conditions for Istanbul and then to Izmir, train Saturdays and Sundays and come back and one of his peers who was always something better living in New Zealand said, but I keep the boat in front of the house. I mean, what you're talking about, sailing is one specific sport if you're sitting by the sea to deal with simply because the clubs are well organized we have clubs that are perfectly organized, if you're on the continent and decide to deal with it and what you're going on takes more time and more money to even deal with and get results, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34803	Thank you. Another replica for you, distinguished MP Mrak Taritas, distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34804	Dear colleagues, you mentioned that we have a base problem and your debate has often led to politics, and I think it's wrong because there's no base problem at all. There is no city, there is no unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia that does not invest serious money in its clubs, in the school sports halls in the playgrounds, in the moments precisely in that part of amateur sports, if you see it as a base. If you are looking for politics to interfere, then of course politics will interfere in every city no matter where anyone is in power because each of us is in order to have a serious club, to involve as many young people as possible and to achieve the best possible result. I, for example, have a first-class player in basketball, I know who the president is, but I have no idea who the director is, who the coach is, what the political option is, but they're first-class leaguers in their domain. So he can't do it without each other and we don't have a problem with the base. We have a lot of other bigger problems, but the base is trust the least of the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34805	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34806	Thank you very much for your question, and you, as head of a local self-government unit, absolutely know how much of your budget you set out for certain sports or certain athletes and it is not good to have the same sport everywhere but to be different. When I spoke about politics, I spoke exclusively about the appointment, so one member of the National Council gives government and the government decides to make a public call. There were five candidates at the public call. Why was it not a choice for qualifications but a choice for a party card? Some things in life all have to get the same thing, of course when we die, we don't all get that kind of funeral reception, but everyone has the right to a funeral. It's equally rude to compare, but everyone should be entitled to something to participate and do something, but here when it comes to sports there shouldn't be a membership card condition for you to participate in something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34807	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted these replicas of your exposure, we continue with individual debates. Next in line is Honorable Representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34808	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'd just like to talk to you about a few things. Here, just before Mr. Klaric said we had no problems with the base, and before that I tried...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34809	Comrade Pavic, for a second, please advise that if you need anything to talk to you about doing it outside the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34810	I tried to explain, in fact, that we're having trouble with the base and that's why we're having trouble with the base. In fact, if we are looking at the National Sport Programme, this national programme should include proposals for sports in the education system. And here, I don't think there's a problem, there are more or less accepted proposals, the problem is how much can be applied in practice, given that some schools don't have the conditions to deal with certain sports and then we have a problem. So these students actually fall out of this national programme, not covered by it. On the other hand, if we watch clubs, you said excellent local self-government very much money is out for sport in its midst. Right, but that money gives to who? The money is paid into the sports alliance, and after that, the sports alliance or city or county money deploys to clubs. Now, the question is, how honest is this key? And it's all right again so long as the club doesn't want to go to the high league competition. When it comes to the higher league competition, those kids who came here to play sports for their health simply fall out of the competition. So if they're not competitive what MP Selak said, if they're not particularly capable, if they don't have any special physical predisposition eventually fall out of play. And there's a little problem. I agree with you we have, in fact we give everyone a chance, but through this kind of categorization and through the competition one part of these people, or these kids, fall out of the game. When those in their youth are no longer able to deal with this sport, then unfortunately, they are not involved in any other sport anymore because their love has gone to the other side and there is no more happiness. However, regardless of what happens in such small clubs, we know that we have professional clubs that have the same problem again, and it is not the same criterion, which is that the amateur clubs draw the best players, these clubs remain without these players and then happens most often or very often that these players who have gone to large clubs are in competition to compete with pioneers, older pioneers later than juniors, and after that usually fall out of the game if they do not have a good manager. And there's the problem, there's the problem I see that in the national council and the draft national programme actually adapts to those kids who would like to play sports to improve health. Because these three, three things that should have a national programme are actually this part about the education system, the part about improving health and the top results in international competitions. Right? There. So that's the goal, these are the parts actually that this national program should have. Now, of course it happens that in local self-government some don't even watch what it says in that program, some of them can't adapt, some clubs have their own goals, but very often it happens that actually the sports alliance at the city level or at the county level, not how much of it I apologize for knowing what it looks like at the community level, but at the city level afterwards they have distribution by some percentages, most often it's how many kids there are in the club. And then what happens? The most money they get is clubs, football clubs, because that's where kids sign up. And regardless of what you have successful clubs in the local community, what you have, for example, table tennis players who compete in high league can't get money because the money went to football and there spent on, most often on those semi-professionals who pay to come play in that club. So I suggest and suggest here and the representatives of the ministry to do something about it and try to reconcile it somehow and that amateurism actually has a better and greater opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34811	Thank you, please stay a little longer, you have a few replicas. First of all, she's the honorable representative of Kresimir Ackara, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34812	Here's a thank you. Dear counterpart Pavić, you mentioned the fair distribution of funds, I think it is very defined in fact by the Law of Sports that cities, political bodies and city councils when they bring budget and sports item that they must bring it down to the community of sports associations, to sports alliances, to the alliance of persons with disabilities and to what city in which the resources of sport have the wealth of these alliances. Also, we all know that members of these alliances are persons selected by the assembly and members who are members of the community of sports associations, in particular. So I'd be interested when you talk about fair redistribution, and I think it's a good law when a community of sports associations decides it, not a political body like it used to be, which is your opinion that it might make it even fairer and that are in short lines of steps that would lead to better efficiency and safer and fairer redistribution of those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34813	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34814	First of all, I think there should be a plan to develop sports in the local community. You have all said well and local self-government makes a decision, the city generally makes a decision, money is paid to the club community or is paid to the sports alliance, and then it is decided to schedule it there. Now, there it seems to you that you know, if you were in a sports alliance or you were in a club community, you know what it looks like? The one who's stronger, the one who's clutching. Well, there's the problem. So those who are stronger and have more members, have more representatives, so they have more hands and they vote actually what they want. It often happens, we have several examples, that even the sports alliance makes a decision that one part of the assets is, in fact, separated for the sport, and the rest is distributed to other sports and that's all in accordance with the law. But inevitably then the other sports actually fail. I'm not just talking about football, it could be in another town and some other sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34815	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34816	So looking at my question, you actually confirmed my thesis, you just took one step because you went to identify professional and amateur sports in that part of the funding. I personally believe that every unit leader of local self-government must make sure that they enable their children in their field of sports and are invested in huge money. If you look at the budgets from all units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, then you could see what that amount is. For example, in my town, of 2 football clubs, basketball clubs, Bosniak clubs, shooting clubs, 2.5 million a year they spend and there is no question of spending because it is an amateur sport. Will someone from that club manage to swim in professional waters, then that's something else. But then there's a different model of funding, but I personally think that every unit of local self-government must and definitely must go into the insurance of assets for amateur sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34817	Thank you very much. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34818	Well, actually in that part I can agree with you as you've now explained it, but I'll tell you just one example. Here, let's say, when you're looking at local self-government units and watching football clubs. Children who go to school or maybe even a year before school come to football clubs and almost boys come mass. After that, what's going on? Big selection and they're out. And then when you have a competition, a football competition between, say, municipalities or some of those clubs, you don't have those kids, but when you watch a competition that happens in youth sports games, you have as many kids there as you want. So they're self-organizing, and that's how they deal with sports. It's no longer in the jurisdiction of clubs that should actually lead them healthy, to be, to develop normally. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34819	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34820	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, dear colleague Pavić. What you're discussing is equally evident and I think we should insist on the importance of sports. The important thing is that both children and young people play sports. We always see football, but how many hundreds of thousands or millions of football players at world level played football, and they never came up with the results we see. So that's the base, that's sports. I remember well in my youth, which was long ago, I grew up in a small town where there was a basketball championship between high schools. I think there were more players in that basketball championship between high schools than there might be today at some championship game. So sport encourages and not only to deal with young people, but even events in certain environments, and that is important, we should influence and discuss it and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34821	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34822	Of course, it's a big problem because when the clubs determine they're going to go to the high league, then they start buying players that aren't from that community, the players come from outside, and they don't really want to watch. That's the second when you're the first league, when you're the second league in some sport, then you still have viewers on the side that are interested in that sport. But lower leagues of competition, when you watch, even football, here's the third league, Thursday, who's watching it anymore? No one's looking. Except for the parents, except famous friends who come to the games and then, if you have local players from that place, you come to the games. Here, I have a son who started playing football when he was 4.5, here he is, already engaged in sports for 16 years, I was almost at all the games. No matter where he was. However, you have parents when a child goes to someone else, some other city plays, no longer shows up and that is, these are problems because there are no more parents or interests to include his child in sports activities, if he was once kicked out of the club because of the competition that came from outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34823	Thank you very much, Representative Pavic. Let's move on with the order of individual debates. Next up is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34824	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about sports, it is important to talk about the appointment of people who are key people for sport, and we, as Parliament's sports representatives, have a lot to discuss. I can only say that, and what has been mentioned by my colleague Rasudiæ and Taritash and everyone who mentioned before me, that it is very important that children's sport, the youngest and recreation. How unequal is i.e. Imequately in the Republic of Croatia for children's sports activities, which would allow you to write books, a respected secretary of state. You know, in what Ivo Sanader has broken huge money, and today we can't get out of it, these are arenas that cost me no idea how much they're not worth, while other children in 2/3 of Croatia don't have the terms of the gym sport, and these gaps are empty, untapped and burdened with Croatian sport. They are burdened with Croatian sport because then these political elites criminalized our sport because 2/3 of Croatia remained for it. And I'll be a little more positive now. I don't know, when we talk about sports, I come from the Cetin region, we have in the southern part of Croatia the most beautiful track, it's familiar to you, that should be invested in horse sports. It's not just Sinjska alka in Sinj, Cetina krajina, but a pit stop where best races, horseplays and this sport can be held. However, very little is invested in this sport. We have, further we can speak here is the pool of Olympic dimensions first in the former area, the former state in 1953. Made, in that pool, unfortunately to this day, that pool is not covered, it was not invested, but although the people of these parts are down there all have the option, such genes, that it can deal with that sport. When we mention this area, I have to tell you, it's not just Alka and Our Lady famous Cetin area, we have a sports airport that used to be an airport that could be invested in parachute sports and we have a good club together Sinj-Split where these flying sports that can be very important in tourism can take place. And that state has to help because those tourist brands are horse sports, flying sports. However, when we talk about Sinj, of course Sinj is the city of basketball, it is the City of KK "Alkar" which was in the finals with Bosnia in 1982. at that moment, players led by Stipo Vrcan, Croatia's best coach for a long time, when he... came to the finals played in Metkovic in basketball where "Alkar" fought at the time was second, but it was a world miracle at that level. However, it is little known that we promote this sport and hope that this council will promote it. I don't know, a few times I've been saying that it's a crib of football, everyone would say it's England. The cradle of football is a cetin end, in the 2nd century it was admitted by the FIFA and published in 1967. Publicly that the first football was played in Sinj in the 2nd century i.e. in Telje, more specifically in Trilje, but in Sinj busts in the 2nd century where the seven-year picture of Gaia i.e. The statue of Guy Liberius is six inches high, and we don't use it. That's what FIFA admitted, it was published in the biggest magazines in 1967. Son's crib is the most important thing in the world. Who knows? Are we in this as the Sports Federation, as the National Council that promotes this promoted it as a tourist brand? For example. When we were second in the football world, it was the first sport that had promoted Croatia but then the tribal took advantage of the moment and said that Croatia's cradle of football after the recognition of the FIFA in the 2nd century and it was recognised by the FIFA, and we use it very little, and very little here we colleagues talk about it and we know it, but it would be a tourist and sports brand and our Council hope to do it together with you to brand and in the world that the cradle of football is Croatia, namely Sinj, Cetinski end and part of Trilja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34825	Thank you, dear colleague. Before we go to replicas, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Boris. Here you go. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34826	Thank you very much for the President-in-Office of the Parliament. Art. 232. and 238, which speaks on the subject of the agenda and the speaker and the chairman, and indeed this doesn't make any sense anymore. If we are going to discuss the National Sports Council with the resolution and appointment of new members, i.e. Only one new member then could really tell us all, today is a theme sport and then discuss everyone about their own, every sport and in every way. This really doesn't make any sense anymore that one point that should last for 15 minutes, maybe minutes today, we're discussing it in a way that everyone's discussing what they want, everyone's saying what they want, and then, of course, they feel bad because we're just not allowed to do it. Then say the theme is sports and then we'll discuss sports in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34827	Thank you, dear colleague Boric. First and foremost, you were the first to hurt the Rules of Procedure because you exceeded your time by 22 seconds, and I did not deliberately warn you to see how far you would violate that Rules of Procedure and please do not do so again. Secondly, it is true that fellow Bulj as well as some colleagues before him did not strictly and exclusively hold on to the subjects of the session, which is the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the National Council members, as well as on the appointment, but this is about what fellow Bulj was talking about to members of the National Council in some way we cannot separate it from sports, from sports policy in the Republic, and here I will now say about freedom, was with his colleagues Bulj in the previous action in the Assembly much greater deviations from the subject or not even keeping the topic at all this time, but regardless of it I do not judge only by him. We often go a little wider, but you can't say we didn't stick to a strict subject. My assessment is that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. ... I won't give you or my colleague Bull. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34828	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238. Because he told the truth that I was speaking out of the question, that the National Council and the appointment of sports, I was talking about the framework of that.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34829	I've already said it, I haven't warned you, I'm not a colleague of Boric. I warned you and him, and I beg you not to move on now. That. [[Intruder Bull: Good.]] Dear Representative Selak Raspoudić, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34830	Art. 238.Bosic downplayed the work of all MPs, including those of HDZ, because he pointed out that discussions in the Assembly are being conducted in order and should last, for what, 15 minutes and thus devalued this most important institution in the country by avoiding the substance debates. If we had received a report on the work we might have discussed more about the National Council and less about sports as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34831	Thank you very much. I won't give you a warning. Let's go, we're done with the Rules of Procedure's injuries, we're moving on with the replicas. Dear Representatives Selak Rasudiæ your replica on the presentation of colleagues Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34832	Coli Bulj, you were talking about sports within Croatia, we are aware that the unequal opportunities for the ability to deal with any sport, the basic problem of not having equal representation in sport and then in top sports, in different parts of Croatia. What do you think the state should do to fix this situation at the level of the mountain and to allow poorer parts of Croatia to be good at sport, strengthen their predisposition and thus help our country with future top sports results?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34833	Thank you very much. Here you are, the answer to the replica of my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34834	Thank you very much. I think that would be the main role of those who have been appointed, who have so far worked evenly in all areas of the Republic of Croatia each child has the same ability to practice sports, but the fact that the megalomaniacs who had had halls, which were made, arenas, I don't know how many were, money was spent and they are not optimal, they can't be, they're not self-sustainable and it's a huge money today. Split, Zagreb and numerous other cities where it was born, are investing through sport to the harm of sports and children, however, it is a fact that most children in the Republic of Croatia, outside of large areas, do not have the ability to deal with certain sports because there have been fewer halls for children, in undeveloped areas, that they and their parents remain, and that should be the main goal, the main goal and the secretary and, of course, the National Council, of course, that this might be better explained by Snjeguljica or Pahuljica of our prime minister but will have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34835	Thank you very much. We're moving on, next replica, distinguished replica, Nino Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34836	Dear colleague Bulj, you had every right to extend this subject and give one and wider but also a more local context. Namely, the word parliament comes from the Latin, late Latin parlo parliament, which means to speak. We're here to talk, talk and spread the context, not narrow our speech and tell us what we can talk about and what we can't talk about. So we're here to talk, you're talking, and good for you. What I'm interested in, we can practice economics, but there are good examples, we were just talking about this phenomenon of NK Osijek, which is a successful sports story in the city and the end that has very many and economically and demographic problems. So where there's a clear vision and where there's at least a few people who can do the job, run a sports club, manage, the result comes. It seems to me in the Cetina region, as you said, football cradles, that we should work on where tradition exists, which is to develop horse sports and work more with young people in other sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34837	Thank you very much. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34838	Well, yeah, I think it should be a role to take all these potentials we have, the National Council and the Ministry of Tourism, i.e. This part of the sport, that it invests in that part and it can be sport and for children, the horse sport however Sinj has an old NK hero through which many famous players went through, in 1916, of course they played in the big clubs of Zambata, I don't know how to mention them, Jerkana Nikola, Balajica and so there were football players who went through, but I would only briefly say that the sport and capacities we have and potentials in the Republic of the region must be decentralised. It's not just 4, 5 key cities all over the world. What Hajduk and Torcida is for Split, perhaps nowhere like this on the world of love, but is this the best fashion, I am Hajdukovac, Torcidas, but these parts, too, are tripling to experience the decentralisation of funds and I expect that the National Sports Council will do the same... State Secretary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34839	Thanks, buddy Bull. With this we have exhausted individual debates, we are left with a final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta registered the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34840	It is no problem that we do not have a report on the work that makes it impossible for us to make a quality contribution to the debate on which people we can or should not trust to be members of the National Sports Council as the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in Croatia. It's not a problem, it's normal for the Parliament to work. But the problem is if the debate in the Assembly goes further than necessary to see individual parliamentary representatives. And it's clear why that's the problem. Because not everyone is sitting behind these benches willingly, some are obviously sitting behind these benches on assignments, so they don't care if this debate lasted 15 minutes as long as they assumed they could complete their task of unprofessional supervision at the work of parliament, or if they went further and they still can't move out of place. It is a problem of discipline and solve it within your within parliamentary democracy and leave this body to deal with what it does, to discuss sports, about the National Sports Council and its work. But I will only conclude this part of the team, add that this violation of the debate and the attempt to dictate what is allowed and must not be discussed, and the most double criteria now become a systematic practice in the work of this Parliament, because I received two warnings yesterday and was warned that it should not go beyond the scope of the amendments and the addition of the Civil Protection Act at the moment when it was estimated that this was going in a dangerous direction of criticism by the authorities, while later when all parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority continued to talk about whatever civil protection was concerned, the warning was no longer there. We'll see how this conflict in view of democracy ends. Anyway, we're not giving up on her. I will return to the scale of the debate which the National Sports Council should do and what we expect of it in the follow-up to its work so that we can confirm its members. The National Sports Council will have to deal with the development of sports in the context of and action within the crisis, as well as the consequences of this crisis because sport was one of the most affected activities during the crown. The National Sports Council sees that there are certain colleagues who do not receive a warning but who believe that they should also debate within the parliamentary benches instead of the parliamentary speaker, but it is again your view of parliamentaryism and your view of what democracy should look like. It's probably like shouting from the assembly clubs instead of talking in the civilizational frameworks of this Rules of Procedure and behind a pay phone from a colleague, Boric. The National Sports Council should also be careful that the way it appoints its members, a way that includes social sensitivity and inclusion of different social groups, is also implemented in sport practice, but also affirmation of positive social values so as not to exclude individuals who do not have the same biological predisposition from sport and society as such. So these are some of the tasks that we expect in the next meeting with the National Sports Council, and in the next meeting with the debates in this assembly we expect a little more democracy and a little less of its exercise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34841	Thank you, distinguished representative Selak Rasdic. I could now give you half a warning, because half of your time as planned for the final word is actually used on something that is not a topic of the agenda but has been imposed as a topic in the last minutes of the debate, but until we determine some principled approaches with which all of us who are chairing the session will define what is the topic, and what is not the topic of the agenda, and then even the criteria under which we will share notices on the topic of the agenda, I will not, because I am no longer freer, freer debate because if we go into this statement of a reminder for every word that will come out a little bit from the title of the agenda topic, I am afraid that this will not get us far away, therefore. We close the debate on this item on the agenda, we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the representatives of this committee for their arrival and continue with the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34843	We continue with the next item of the agenda, which is: Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 The proposal for an act is by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 25. The Free Zone Act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? You want to come with us, state secretary Natasa Mikush Zigman, and I ask her to take the opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34844	Dear Madam Vice-President, esteemed MPs and MPs, so before you there is a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2019. The report shall be submitted in accordance with the Free Zones Act and for the purpose of obtaining a full picture and understanding of the concept of free zones, the report at the beginning shall contain a presentation of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, and the central part of the report itself shall contain data on the business of each business zone, free zones in particular, while that last part of the report refers to graphic images with comparison of business with the previous year means on the 2018 basis of the number of users, employees, income, profits, exports and other criteria. For each of the free zones, the report also contains business data from 2015 to 2019. Thus, looking at the above data suggests that there were 8 active free zones in Croatia in 2019, 4 of which are land-based and 4 ports of free zone. The Kopnene are Vukovar, Osijek, Zagreb and Škrljevo, while the ports of the free zones are active in Pula, Rijeka, Split and Ploča, so for the 19th year. If we look at the aggregated data on the business of free zones, then we can say that 71 users operated in free zones in 2019. The number of users compared to 2018 decreased by around 20%. For users of free zones, 2,817 workers were employed or 2.4% less than in the previous year than in 2018, and on average 352 workers were employed per zone. The difference in the average number of employees, since it exists for users in land and port free zones, also points to the different core activities of these companies, since the ports of the free zones are primarily intended for accommodation or for accommodation and cargo of goods, while land zones are engaged in and produced. If we look at the financial indicators of the 2017 free zones, then it can be seen that 1.69 billion kuna revenue or 14% less than 2018. As a result, profits were made in the amount of 166,35 million kuna or 10.6% more than in 2018. According to exports in total revenues, it can be said that these exports are 54%, although there are again significant differences between port free zones and land areas. In port, the share of exports in total income is high and is 77.5%, and in land free zones the share is 20%. The beneficiaries of a concession for the establishment of land-based, therefore not port-based but land-based zones have a obligation to pay concession fees and in 2019 there was a obligation to pay concessions of 774/94 kuna, which is a little more than 30 % more than that in the previous period. However, on this occasion I would also like to say that in May 2020, although this is beyond the reporting period of this report, it is important to note that, therefore, the amendments to the Free Zone Act have been abolished, in fact, the obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of a free zone, and the purpose of this amendment was to facilitate the business of the economic operators of concessions due to the difficulties resulting from the root of the crisis. In free zones, business is suitable for those companies or users operating with third countries, whether they are engaged in production or that the capacities of these free zones are used as a warehouse for the goods they operate in their business processes. If we look at the overall business results, then we can say that the free zones continue to operate after Croatia's membership in the EU and in those locations where there is an interest of entrepreneurs in such a business regime or where entrepreneurs operate with third countries exactly as I previously pointed out. And in other areas where such an interest does not exist, they generally turn to other models, such as entrepreneurship zones, as defined by the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. And here is the conclusion, we believe that this report gives a realistic view of the business of the free zones, contributes to the visibility of this segment of the business environment and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34845	Thank you very much, please stay behind the pay phone a little while longer to respond to the replicas. The first of them is the distinguished representative of Mr. Kresimir Ackhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34846	Thank you. Dear State Secretarys, therefore, there are 72 free zones throughout the EU, you yourself mentioned 11 in the area of the Republic of Croatia. How realistic is it to have so many free zones if we have one piece of information that one big France has only two free zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34847	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34848	Thank you very much for your question, so this is certainly the result of the fact that Croatia is the last country to join the EU and that in one part of course there is still this traffic with third countries. Surely in a smaller proportion than in other EU Member States, however, there is a trend in the reduction that is precisely reflecting this fact that our main market is right in the EU area. So the trend is to reduce such business activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34849	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34850	The President-in-Office, State Secretary, in this individual review of so-called free zones for 2019 is a specific report that is likely to be said in some ways not to be excluded, but on the side of the view in terms of areas which are under the authority of port administrations. Therefore, they are specific to those on land, and they are still bound by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, Article 50, and they are also specific that we can not charge this concession or what it is like. Therefore, additional consent holders are not real payment bonds for the establishment of free zones in the port area. So a little bit of explaining to me that part of the difference between one and the other is precisely because they don't pay between the other and the bonds are according to the law, so regarding the operations of the port administrations where the institution does not.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34851	Thank you, time. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34852	Thank you very much. Well, yes, I think that according to the report, there is also a clear difference in the scope of business activities between port zones and land zones, so the future land areas are primarily engaged in either the production or trade of food with third countries, production for trade with third countries or used as warehouses in their business processes. In the port zones, we can say in a way that they are the real free zones. They receive ships, they carry loads of cargo, they are in the right sense a transit zone as they are in some other Member States, such as Rotterdam in the Netherlands and there is no production there. However, we see that there is one perspective here, especially regarding the port of Rijeka, which can, of course, take a significant place in terms of the port of entry towards the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34853	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of the Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34854	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here is the fact from this report for 2019 that the number of users within the free zones is falling, which is logically going to take into account what you yourself said about Croatia entering the EU. However, it is evident that users, therefore, continue to operate in that area by leaving the free zones or using the institutes provided for by the existing Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure such as the entrepreneurship zone or some other entrepreneurship support institutions. Therefore, they could say in view of these certain geostrategic changes, i.e. by exiting the Republic of Croatia to the EU and the application of these other Institutes of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, that the decline in numbers within free zones is, therefore, expected in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34855	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34856	Thus, customers themselves, or companies, many of whom are property owners in free zones, decide whether they have an interest in this type of business. In fact, what can be considered positive is that they are not, therefore, exempt from certain duties, customs and tax duties, but are made easier by the conditions of business, but on the other hand they have certain administrative obligations which do not have other companies directly located on the EU market. Therefore, it depends on the users to decide which business regime and whether they will actually come out of such a business regime and, therefore, very often, they are heading towards entrepreneurship zones, so they remain at the same location but are changing the regime in which they operate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34857	Thank you very much. Next replica, colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34858	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we have the opportunity to discuss a report and every year we have the opportunity to do so and compare what happened in the past period and see where it goes in the future. So, free zones have their own history and I'm sure they have their own future in a certain part because it's about areas that are mostly communally equipped, in which we have property defined and nothing is carved into stone, that means there's going to be some other stuff and some other examples. So of the 11 free zones that are listed here, we actually have in function 8. Three are out of order. So you, the ministry, have already come up with some kind of request or some kind of story that could happen in three free zones that aren't functional, which they decided not to be but which I'm sure has a certain future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34859	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34860	Thank you. First of course, we need to resolve their status, and we know that the reports of course are being resolved in the process of trade courts, here we are now, over a certain number of years, at the discussion, the Committee on Economy has asked the question, right, it seems to me about the Krapina-Zagorje free zone, and we have therefore asked for that information, and we have learned that all the documentation has been submitted, in court, the process of winding up practically before the end, but there has been some delay because of this situation with the coronary virus, and we believe that exactly where there is no such other kind of infrastructure, as I have said, an interest in such a business regime in terms of customs and tax relief can be made to go to other types of business, and through here, if you allow me, through European means we are also encouraging exactly the other types of infrastructure, so far, so far about a billion kuna has been put at the disposal right to improve the entrepreneurialinfrastructure. which is available to entrepreneurs. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34861	You may have opportunities to end up in response to other replicas if you have forgotten something. Next up, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34862	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. So here through the indicators you've shown us for the 2019 free zones, there's a huge disproportionateness in investments in certain areas, relative to the traffic that is being made. Is this and do you think that this is actually a consequence of a completely new relationship between us and the EU and the free zone status at all and the meaning of free zones in relation to the previous period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34863	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34864	Thank you very much for asking. Of course, the importance of free zones in the previous period or before membership was slightly higher, due to the very status of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the market, the EU common market. Here we might just look at the data, so if we look at how many of them we're dealing with production versus, say, stockpiling goods, I can point out that 14 zones are in production, excuse me, according to the number of entrepreneurs, that's the data, so 46 entrepreneurs are in storage, in the storage segment, so it can be said that there's some kind of leverage on this second part. We would prefer, of course, that the shift in the production work, and this may show certain trends in terms of repurpose or change in the way users themselves operate in free zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34865	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your opening presentation, the distinguished secretary of state, colleague Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34866	Dear Secretary of State, when we look at your report, we see in fact that from year to year we have an interest in working in business areas, which is actually understandable in the light of the legislation, given that our business entities have an opportunity to work differently, to do business differently, and they don't really need to work in this business zone anymore, however, given that foreigners can also work in this area, i.e. that they can also work foreign legal and physical persons, it is evident that there is neither on this side of interest nor in the EU, because there are many of these business areas in the EU compared to Croatia. When we look at 72 business zones in 27 countries, 11 of them in Croatia, there is no interest. You said you had some recommendations on how to transfer these facilities, my question, if these recommendations, and whether these stimulations are given to companies in the zone, or if you recommend that it be transferred or purchased by local self-government, and then financed by local self-government and built a business zone?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34867	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34868	Well certainly, therefore, I would say there is a primary interest of entrepreneurs who are staying in free zones, given that they of course decide themselves whether they want to be in one business regime or whether they want to focus on another business regime, depending on their business activities, so also contacts, business contacts that they have according to certain markets. What may be important to say is that, of course, and moving certain entrepreneurs from one location to another location is not the cheapest, in which case they can, if all the users of the zone are so agreed, be able to ask, of course, that they are liquidated in the process that is intended for them and that they are refurbished to another infrastructure, however, it is important to say that there is no shutting down of business activity, so they just continue with business activity in a different way and all the infrastructure and communal equipment of the area that is present continues to be used further, just a little bit in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34869	Thank you very much. With this we've exhausted all the replicas, you can go to the scene. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we'll go with the debates on behalf of the clubs. The first reported club to discuss this agenda item is that of GLAS and the Centre. In the name of the club, an esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34870	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretary with Associates, we have a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2019. Let's see the law a little bit, so the Free Zones Act is '96. the year was changed in '99, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2013 and 2020. Since '96. It's been many years so far, different things have happened. Among other things, Croatia has also become a member of the EU and I am sure that this has been influenced by what the proposer has done every time and says both in the way the free zones operate and in the way in which they are important and important. So, what are free zones? They are part of the entrepreneurial infrastructure made up of entrepreneurial zones, entrepreneurial support, institutions, free zones are one of the subcategories and play an extremely large role in creating a quality user-oriented entrepreneurial environment in the Republic of Croatia. I have to say what I said and on the Committee on Economy this report that we get is a standard report, it's made very quality and useful because between quantity and quality is often a big difference. Somehow we slave to always be fat to have 100 pages, but everything that's important can be written on a slightly smaller page. So what happened in '96 and what happened all this time compared to today has changed. And we just have to follow that. This is something that we need to take care of and see and see and see and what the changes are in the EU as well. Of the 27 EU members in 19 plus of course, there are free zones and there are most in the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. In the Czech Republic 8, in Bulgaria 6, or now we have Poland 7 and Spain, but these were at the top of my list, so it was easier to refer to them. There are, of course, 11 of them in Croatia, indeed, 8 of them. Free zones have their own history, and we need to take care of it. What we see from this report is this. And that is, that 3 free zones are at a certain stage, so Krapina-Zagorska is in the process of liquidating, Kukuljanovo is inactive as a free zone, but there are also opportunities to hear and talk about it on the board, because it also has a certain future and Split-Dalmatia is in the process of liquidation. What this report has shown is that these liquidation procedures take a long time. That it was launched for Split-Dalmatia in 2016 and it is still ongoing and that by the end of 2019, the report for which this was done was not completed although when you see little about Split-Dalmatia, there has been no user since 2011, but at several locations, more precisely at 4 locations and the question is even you know that in one period everyone should have a free zone, and then the question is also about that. In the same way in Krapina-Zagorska, the beneficiary of the concession in November 2018 made a decision on the liquidation of the company and was completed in 2019, or not yet completed in 2019. When you see the division of these free zones, we absolutely share the ports of the free zone and for them it's even for one, I think it's about the boards, not that I think it's just like that, the whole area was used. And apparently free, the ports of free zones have their potential. I don't think that, and storage potential isn't potential. So, everything has its own way, everything has its own reasons why it is and it should be read as well. So the ports of the free zone will certainly continue to seek additional space and additional potential. Regarding these remaining free zones, therefore it is a Danube free zone of Vukovar, which is connected to the Vukovar port and the question is further, so a number of circumstances if we start to develop and Rijeka traffic, if something is going on there will certainly be potential. The free zone of the port of Rijeka Škrljevo, due to the limitations of the port of Rijeka and the spatial limitations it develops naturally in a wider area and of course it is nothing strange. The free zone of Zagreb will always have its own story and so will Osijek. So, me, it will be interesting to see which report for 2020 for reasons to see what happened in relation to the free zones and this unfortunate crown and this unfortunate Covid where we are forced to live under certain conditions, what has happened and what changes have been made in our economy. What's always interesting, seeing reports, is interesting to see investment. If you have investments in certain free zones, then it means that those free zones have a future. I don't think things are things, things need to be looked at and somehow tied up to changes that they are. Since the moment Croatia became a member of the EU, free zones have played a different role than they had before. It should be taken into account to adapt that other importance and other role. What I always look at and always try to look at from the aspect of spatial planning. If you had a free zone, if you had community equipment, if you brought communal infrastructure, if that space was already consumed at one point, then it's certainly much better to have some other activity, some other development, some other stories happening in such a space that is consumed, which is communally equipped than to use some new space, it's called those Brownfield investments. Therefore, this can certainly be the potential of development, but what we have to lead about, we need to make sure that we meet some new moments, some new issues, or some new ways in which the economy is taking place. The businessmen will deal with things that will bring profit or profit. So they're going to recognize where they're going to invest and what we need to do on our own is next. Keeping in mind that our laws are such that we allow them and do not make it impossible and make sure that equally with a series of regulations, a series of activities, we are of course very up-to-date and very agile. In this summary of this report, there is one information that is always interesting, it is interesting how many employees there are. So how many employees do we have? And we had 2,817 workers in 2019, which is something less than it was in the previous year, but that's something you always have to make sure that you have certain things where there will be more employees. After this unfortunate crown... And after people have worked from home and gone to other jobs, we'll see things that have changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, as I said on the Committee on Economy, which is related to this report, it is one report that has been made in the way that I think this matter should be done, this report absolutely for support, and we have no dilemmas there, but in the debate it is always good to discuss the content of this report and to use the data that you get in the future so that you do not repeat mistakes but to take some step towards better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34871	Thank you, dear representative of the Dark-Taritash. The following registered discussion club according to this agenda item is the Dominique Movement Club, on behalf of the National Movement Representatives Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34872	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. I always like the word "necessary," I'm glad, like, pure female so I'll point that out. Thank you very much for the opening presentation, respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will commend this report, I think it's done professionally, concisely, and as my colleague Mrak-Taritash said, you don't need to slave to that large number of pages to be some fat book, sometimes you can, sometimes it's less, right, so here, all praise to those who worked on the report. Free zones like the rest of the economy, we heard, so we have 11 free zones, 7 land, 4 ports, and after some transitional period, they're actually interesting to those who do business with that so-called. to third countries that are not in the EU and, for example, once the biggest free zone was Varazdin, it was shut down in 2016 and, as we have heard, life still exists in those 8 free zones. That's the facts. Once upon a time, and I remember the forwarding offices in Varazdin were extremely strong, large, by entering the EU, it changed, we live in an environment that is changing, we need to adapt, this is what this epidemic taught us, because in a short time we all had to adapt relatively quickly to new circumstances. There was little mention of how long these liquidation procedures took, and we discussed it on the Committee on the Economy as a parent committee. Otherwise, these procedures take a long time. So, and when you close the simple d.o.o., and it takes a long time, these are regulations, simply that process takes about a year and a half, two days depending on how much they complain, you have to follow some kind of procedure, so honestly no matter how much it sounds when you say it in 3.4 years it hasn't worked out yet, it's all in line with the positive legal regulations that have to be respected, it's what they are, and ultimately this High House brought them in, right? What's signifiable here is this reduced activity, the reduced number of users, the reduced size of business, means 71 users in 2019, that's a smaller number compared to the previous year and the income of 1.69 billion kuna, which is also slightly smaller and by 9%. It's all far from what I used to do and what got me the most attention, it's this change in the structure of the activities that are our free zones and it's quite a visual outline and change in our overall economy. So once it was dominated by manufacturing activities, and it's a meditative textile industry, car parts production, means labour-intense industries, and today it's more of a storage of the accompanying trade service and a little less than 1/3 of the entrepreneurs are engaged in production. Accordingly, the number of workers in the free zones needs to be reduced, a prominent figure that means income through exports, including sales on the European market of 913 million kuna, means free zones have their own space, they are still significant but as I said, I am a little concerned by this structure which is a good part of the reflection and our overall economic images and structures where we are becoming a service economy, more service activities and is not a problem in the storage and trade, but the fact that we lack production, we lack that link that will give our products more added value, and we will come to the fact that we are not selling wheat then, and we are importing pasta and frozen bakery products, but that we are those who sell products from our raw materials base, from our raw materials base at a higher price because we have added that value, and that only industry can do so. I also have to touch what is very current, and for the area from which I come and life, and that is to shut down the sugarcan, I admit that it is suffering me, you have noticed probably from my exhibitions, it is 200 workers who will no longer work and that is the same reflection, meaning the structure of the economy where we are leaving one such intermedial economic branch, regardless of what the problem is since yesterday, meaning it dates back to 2017, and even earlier, then it has intensified, but why we haven't done anything before and why we brought ourselves into this situation, that is, that is, that is, which is the basic question that we need to take into account. So I'm glad to hear it, from a respected secretary of state, that the free zones, no matter what some are closing, are leaving, but the infrastructure that is then used for other purposes remains, so it's not thrown in, and we haven't worked in vain, it's not going to be a free zone anymore, it's going to be an entrepreneurial zone. What we would have to take care of, is that it means some sort of trend because if we have young entrepreneurs like the Romans who are looking for the hall for their new facility and going around all the ministries, going around means everything and entrepreneurial zones and don't find it, then we have to ask ourselves, maybe we should listen a little bit better to the market, market trends, and see what our entrepreneurs' needs are, our businessmen who can simply do something and work, open new, quality jobs in these entrepreneurial areas. It's often said here, so it's the IT industry, new technology, and we need to take care of it, but we can't forget that it's only 2% of our GDP, and even if we double it, it's only 4% of GDP, and in order to double we know which and the financial and human effort has to be made, so, nevertheless, some traditional, processing industries, mainly the food processing industry, where we have a Syrian base is where I have to, I'm a little bit out of it, I hope I won't get a warning, I see that it was current today, but these are some directions where we have to determine ourselves, and here, for the end, I won't owe it. The Homeland Movement will support this Report because, as I said at the beginning, the report is made quality and reflects some state of affairs that is the way it is, but what needs to be pointed out, it is that, meaning, it is thought further and that this infrastructure that exists is then activated in another way that is more suitable for Croatia, which it has today, which is like an EU member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34873	Thank you. You won't get a warning. Yesterday, as I heard it, it was raining, and today it's still a little sunny. We continue the debate on behalf of the club, in the name of the clubs. The next registered club is the SDSS Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Anja Simprag will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34874	Thank you to the vice president of HS, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2019. The Free Zones Act clearly defines what a free zone is for us and how the traffic of goods and persons is marked and arranged. According to the example of other countries in transition, the Republic of Croatia used the Institute of Central State Economic Policy to address the difficulties of a transition period without national investment and without national risk by establishing free zones. This institute has existed for a very long time, and it aims to address unemployment problems, increase exports of products and services, reduce imports, reduce emigration of young and professional personnel, address economic development problems of underdeveloped areas, intensify trade flows and increase regular sources of the state budget. However, perhaps the biggest problem, if possible and so called, is the fact that our free zones are dominated by the work of finishing, and these zones are often used to store oil, cars, sugars and other goods imported in large quantities, which are then paid for by customs and tax only when they come out of these zones. Free zones in the Republic of Croatia do not have any more significant production, as is the case with free zones in developing countries, so the question is to what extent they meet the purpose for which they are created. With the entry into the EU, free zones in our country have lost to attractiveness. Entrepreneurs operating in their territory were left unfavourable and special customs and tax treatment, the structure of the activity was changed, as much more production activity was dominated before entering the EU, and most of them were meth and textile industries, production of auto-parts, while today the storage and monitoring services and trade prevailed, and less than a third of entrepreneurs are engaged in production. In 2019, 11 free zones were recorded in the Republic of Croatia, with two free zones set up by the counties, Split-Dalmatia and Krapina-Zagorska. The procedures include liquidations that are still ongoing in both cases, while the Free Zone of Kukuljanovo is in the area of Bakar and after a long series of years still without any activity. Thus, there were eight free zones in life in 2019. It sounds devastating that outside the game are the main players, when we talk about free zones. Sometimes the largest Free Zone Varazdin has been shut down in 2016, and the inactive Split-Dalmatia and Kukuljanovo zones are the largest and cannot be compared with the others because the first extends to more than 2 million square meters and the second to a million. Taking into account that 72 free zones operate in the 27 EU Member States, it is clear that Croatia, at least statistically speaking, is a leader with 11 free zones. Even when three inactive zones are excluded, along with the Czech Republic, we have the most free zones. It is interesting in fact that Austria, Belgium, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovakia and Sweden do not have free zones, especially when considering that the Irish area Shannon has created its own brand of export free zones in time, later referred to as the "Irish model". Only 2 out of 8 active free zones are located in the east of the Republic of Croatia. Danube Free Zone Vukovar and Free Zone Osijek. In 2003, the Danube Free Zone was founded by the company Filir and the City of Vukovar Reconstruction and Development Fund. The concession is set at 25 years from the date of conclusion of the concession agreement, i.e. until 2028. The total income of Vukovar Free Zone users in 2019 amounted to nearly 300 million kuna, some less than 12% more than in previous 2018, while users achieved a profit of just a little less than 50 million kuna. The primary export markets were the markets of Slovenia, Italy, BiH and Australia. 6 users of the Danube Free Zone, which was less than a third compared to 2018, employed 302 workers, noting that two users do not have any employees. In the zone there are several reference companies whose parent homes are from Italy and several domestic companies and companies from the region. 99% of the companies are export-oriented and this is a policy they want to continue to implement, and the main goal of the zone is to attract more users involved in production activities, to enable the employment of new employees, which would be of great importance for this area. And Osijek's free zone did business in plus, because 13 employees who employ 133 persons in business made a profit of more than 8 million kuna. These two free zones carry almost a third of the total benefits of all free zones. Free zones uncontestably bring certain advantages and regardless of the fact that in Croatia free zones lose attractiveness, mostly due to complicated administrative procedures, keeping records, entry of goods, vehicles and people in the area of the zone and control, the number of zones in the EU has been growing in recent years. It could be said that the free zones markets in the Republic of Croatia are not overly saturated even though there are 8 active zones and they are quite well distributed. After the transitional period, the zones remained interesting mainly for those operating with third countries. We've talked here several times about the need to revitalise the earthquake of the affected area of Bania. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't start in Glina, Petrinja or Sisak with the establishment of a free zone, primarily with users who are focused on production activities. Benefit forming a free zone would actually feel everyone and this area, special public concerns, would liven up. In addition to all the advantages of the free zones that give positive regulations to the Republic of Croatia, potential users of the free zone could take advantage of the proximity of the border with our neighbouring BiH, the proximity of Zagreb, Zagreb airports, good road connection with other parts, and today-to-morrow and the Sisak-Zagreb highway. Entrepreneurs from Bania would have a central meeting place, the population of Bania would get a chance to hire and start a new chapter. Due to all of this, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support the Free Zone Business Report, hoping that the Resort Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider forming a single free zone in the area of Banija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34875	Thank you, fellow Shimprag. The next in line for the debate is SDP's Club of Representatives, in the name of which the distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go, buddy. Here, now that the conditions are met, after disinfection. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34876	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. Here, there's a report before us that I can't object to, given that we've heard it a few times already, and we've said it ourselves on the board, that the report is actually fine, but we can't praise you too much, you know, so you don't have to think about it, so next year you'll break down. So the report is short, detailed, though, what actually made me, when I first read the report, a little bit worried that it's inside that the report was made based on data provided by users in business zones, so if there are some data that aren't accurate, then it's not your responsibility, it's your responsibility, but the responsibility of the people who gave you the wrong data, actually, to put them in this report. Of course, here we have heard more than once today what happens to these business areas, means the 1996 law when we actually go into these business zones with a goal, or free zone, with a view to facilitating the business of our business entities, when they've done business abroad, with the aim of not paying customs duties, not paying VAT, but here since we entered the EU, such needs are gone, and our business entities have actually lost interest in doing business in free zones because the simplicity and complexity of the documentation to be conducted and the controls that are being done there, given that the goods are not allowed to come out of that area that is physically fenced, I think in fact in one part it rejects our business entities that if they don't have to work there, then they don't work. We heard that a large number of business entities have already come out of the zone, one part is being prepared, some areas are being bankrupt, some are inactive, and what I have to say here, regardless of what I expect Mr. Klaric to do, that the practice that is in Bakru, applied to the free zone and the re-use of that free zone in the business zone, I think it is a great practice and should work on it. With what I asked the secretary, if there are any directions to local self-government and business entities, whether or not to do something in that part to actually buy this land out by local self-government, here's the answer I've actually got is to leave it to business entities that are in that business zone and let them decide how and what they're going to do next, which is actually normal because we can't force them to do something else, because before they're actually forced to continue their production processes, whether they're going to be in a free zone or they're going to be in another business zone, and we know that moving from the facility to the facility isn't so simple, especially if you have big drives, production plants. In fact, we also saw in the report about 50% of the space in these business areas, or in the free zones, it is used for the storage of goods and about 50% for production, and our goal would be that, if possible, to attract even more business entities that will work with third countries, means countries outside the EU, in these business zones, and that, in fact, the production of certain products that need to be processed and our knowledge is crucial, so we may be able to do something about it. What's even a little bit of concern to me is that this fall is actually evident, I think it's too big given we have 2 years, so 20% is falling from the previous year, it's quite a big fall, and I hope that we don't get caught up in business or free zone all of a sudden, and without having a strategy to get out of that free zone in a way to do something because what we've heard before, it's not a problem if all the owners in the free zone decide that they're going to get out of that free zone, but if they decide only a few, then they need to do a re-degradation, and then, of course, it's a different customs surveillance, which is actually a problem for those who remain inside and those who want to get out without a problem because that land is no longer useful. So we have some dilemmas. So if the zone is completely shut down, it's not a problem, if all the owners of the parcels that are in that free zone decide to get out of that free zone, it's not a problem, but if it's a partial, partial exit, then it can be a big problem. What I would like to suggest and suggest if this is possible given that we have a lot of municipalities and cities, I am speaking an example for these, for my city which is here, in which the area is in bankruptcy, and we do not have enough space in the business zone, would suggest that in some way it is recommended or that in some way it is regulated that the city is actually participating in the purchase of these parcels and that it actually offers interested business entities a new space actually in the business zone because this area that is currently a free zone, anyway, is not useful and the infrastructure built can be used for smarter things. In the end, he would repeat it again, the report is good and the SDP club will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34877	Thank you, Agent Pavic. Let's move on with the debates, next up is the HDZ Representatives' Club. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric will speak for himself, only to obtain the conditions and that I am taking the opportunity to thank our officials, the employees of the Parliament who work hard all day long and delete this area before and after and before each speaker to meet all epidemiological measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34878	Thank you, Vice President. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs, honored State Secretary with an associate. At first, before I go through with this, I'm going to comment a little bit because a half-hour ago we got some criticism from certain MPs who we often resent for the reason that some particular topic relating to a concrete amendment or the addition of the law was turned into everything and at least what the report or that law or that amendment said, so we had an example yesterday that because of one sentence, we discussed an article in the Law on Railways all day and we didn't say anything in particular, so we saw everything and everything and nothing at all. As my predecessors said, and this is what I started to say in the first place for another reason because it often bothers me how easily we go over the topics that are vital to the Republic of Croatia, for all our citizens, they refer to the economy. We recently had a similar filled-in assembly and a similar debate when we discussed the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. So about a law that certainly means the development of the economy and everything that will mark the lives of our citizens in the coming period. And when we come to this Report on Free Zones, here we actually have heard really nice, concrete debates, here from practically all clubs, not for the reasons that they praised this report but what this report really shows is something that I would like to say a few words about because often our citizens, when they hear the term free zone, kind of identify it with some kind of entrepreneurial zone in some city or community, don't think about what it actually means. The secretary of state said nicely to the question of one of our MPs how it is that of 72 business, i.e. free zones in all of Europe involving these 11 of us, countries like Germany have 2 free zones, while the Netherlands has none, such as Denmark, Ireland, and one that had very successful, as well as gave up, practically, our 11 zones kind of stick in the eyes. What is seen in this report, and I think it's a logical sequence. So all these zones, including those that I can really talk about, in Kukuljanovo or the Free Zone Škrljevo, are just visible on this last page, and I think it's some future of free zones because in this graphic display and those numbers are just showing concrete data, here, a colleague just recently worked out everything from the zone, each zone individually, so here we have the data, that from the concession fees in 2019 this free zone of Rijeka port on Škrljeva, she paid 72.29%, that the free zone Zagreb paid 24%, Osijek 2.2 and Vukovar, these 0.2%. In some ways it is a picture of Croatia, the form it has, and precisely that we are a Danube and Mediterranean country and that in some way it is exactly the direction Croatia should go in, and the visible indicators of this are giving up on the Free Zone regime in Varazdin, this part of the story that we in Bakru have tried to give entrepreneurs another benefit even though it is a mustache here, since this Free Zone Škrljevo, which has practically paid the most of these concession fees, and this zone Kukuljanovo is practically in the same location. We simply wanted our economies in time when we were not yet a member of the EU, to offer another kind of business, there were some interests, however, by entering the EU it proved that this had no effect and that the interest of the economics in this direction was not so expressed, but we were precisely in those million squares which were in some way intended for the free zone, with its built entrepreneurship infrastructure, from the pipeline, road, infrastructure, coastal draining, fecal draining, optics, telecommunications, except, of course, what the Free Zone Act prescribes, so these physical fences, barriers with public lighting that such a kind of zone should have by law. However, I am saying this for the reasons that all 11 of these active 8, so 2 are not, when we come down to these 3, 4 zones that I think are realistically free to exist in Croatia and in the next period and in the next years that are ahead, definitely what is good and what is the generator of the future reason is to re-apply that space in terms of entrepreneurial activities, and in accordance with the law that I said too little, and we talk too much about a lot of non-essential things, about the Law on entrepreneurship infrastructure, because the grotesque of our economies thanks to the government of the Republic, thanks to those criteria that have been changed, and about the indices of development, when the EU funds for building its facilities have been made possible by the EU institutions, their facilities are far more attractive than these benefits that we have in the free zones regime, and as a member of the EU. So, when we look at how much EU funds have been invested in the whole of Croatia for the past 3.4 years, on, in numerous business areas, in the construction of how infrastructures in local self-government units, strictly intended for the construction of entrepreneurship zones, in co-financings, ratios of 40-60% of EU funds where units of local self-government could be financed by 40%, European funds 60% or vice versa, and in that part of the refund, right now there are competitions in the ministries for the refund of these costs invested by local self-government units, and that is precisely one direction of economic development in our area. Let's not forget how we sometimes hear them cry, down in the river that something from the industry was destroyed, the fact that the industry that was at the time ruled, the Vulcan type, the type of Torpedo, the type of paper factory or in that part of Coxara in Bakru, in that part that was the socialist industry, and the planned economy, now in these EU frameworks, we simply can't think or think about it, and I repeat again what I was saying here recently for this pay phone when I was talking about the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. There is often some kind of crime against units of local self-government or economics if there is some way of talking about commercial activity, not just production activity. So every single one of mine, our business man who makes something, that thing he's got to sell somewhere. So it's all in some logical sphere, of production itself, of storage, logistics, transportation, and the expanded, yesterday's debate on railways, ultimately with built infrastructure, highways, which are practically at this point with the Pelješki bridge, with Učka tunnel, with the future highway of Rijeka-Yellow Lokva, which is sort of being processed, and this part that's built now on LNG, however much criticism it is, in terms of this development of the economy and the convenience in that part, means a lot. So, the example of these free zones on Škrljev or Kukuljanov, when we talk about LNG, which means in the future for the development of such an area of 5.6 million squares, is currently filled close to 4 million, meaning that it is now supplied with Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline from the Croatian submersible, there by Pula. At the moment, this LNG from Krk is attached, just connected to the pipeline of the Pula-Karlovac pipeline, so the alternative gas source for our business zone on Kukuljanovo is already practically secured. Do we need that amount of gas right now, we don't need it, because we have Pula-Karlovac gas, but at the fill of all 5, 6 million squares, it's going to need it. So, all that the previous predecessors have said, I really thank you from the heart, it is seen that they have studied, have read, and in some ways think about what we should practically all think about here in the Parliament, because the economy is the only economy, new jobs, the resources that enter the state budget, the budget of the unit of local self-government, what can generate the development of the state and the remaining youth in this beautiful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34879	Thank you, dear representative Klaric. You can see we can do it whenever we want. And stick to the subject and the essence of content and the core. The next Club of Representatives who applied for a hearing, or sorry, no, we're done with clubs, I apologize. We start with individual debates, the first in line is the distinguished representative Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34880	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all very much together. In one part of the Business Zone Report, it is noted that although business zones have been operating for many years, their function and manner of business for a part of the public sometimes represents an unknown. It may therefore be necessary to repeat their basic features here, on the basis of the concession given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the fact that it is a particularly fenced and marked part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia in which economic activities are carried out under special conditions. Free zones in the Republic of Croatia will most often carry out storage and cargo of goods, manufacturing and processing activities, wholesale trade, and services of services and retail trade in free zones are not allowed. In 2019, we heard in the Republic of Croatia several times today, 11 free zones were recorded, of which 2 were in the process of liquidation throughout the year, one was inactive, so in 2019 there were actually 8 free zones, which means there was no change compared to the previous reporting period. The report detailed and shows the business of all business zones based on the representation of the number of employees and walk-bys and total exports and exports to the EU, and not a special comparison with previous year's business, so we know that in 2019 in the free zones of the Republic of Croatia a total of 71 users, which is 20% less than in the previous year, 2018, and the cause of this decline is the process of liquidating the Krapina-Zagorje free zone with 11 users started in November 2018. In the reporting period, 2,817 workers were employed in all free zones, which was 2,36% less than in the previous year and in each of the 8 active free zones, on average 352 workers were employed, while the free zone user averaged 32 workers. The total income of all users of free zones in 2019 was 1.69 billion kuna, which is 14% less than in the previous year. Users made a profit of 166.35 million kuna or 10.57% more than in the previous period. The total amount of all users of free zones in 2019, including the delivery of goods on the EU market, was 913.7 million kuna, which is 9.30% less than in the previous year. The share of exports in total revenue of all users of all free zones in 2019 including the delivery of goods to the EU market was 53.9% while in 2018 the share was 51.1%. The total supply of goods to the EU market of all users of free zones in 2019 was 370 million, which was 20.60% less than in the previous year and the share of supplies of goods to the EU market of all users in their total income was 21.8%, while in 2018 the share was 23.7%. In 2019, there was an obligation to pay a concession fee of 774, 194,37 kn which was 33,21% more than the previous year and users of concessions for free zones paid their commitments for 2019. The trend shown in reducing the number of free zones operating in the Republic of Croatia indicates that free zones continue to operate in locations where there is an interest of entrepreneurs, users of free zones while in other areas they turn to business models that are more suitable for their users, mainly in entrepreneurship zones, in terms of how they are defined by the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34881	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's Honorable Representative Ivan Budalić I want to replicate to you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34882	Dear MPs, in your presentation, it is evident that in 2019, in the free zones of the Republic of Croatia, fewer users were operating for about 20%. Total revenues of all users of free zones were 14% less than in previous years. What is your opinion on what has led to this reduction trend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34883	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34884	Thank you, Your Honor, for saying what I said in the debate, and which is in the very conclusion, that the trend of reducing the free zones that operate in the Republic of Croatia is being shown, but continues where there is an interest. The interest was greater when the Republic of Croatia was not an EU member and this is the trend that is happening, we heard yesterday and on the Committee on Economy, it has been going on since 2013, how to use the spaces in the future, through real and stronger entrepreneurial activities, I believe that they will be and that economic activities will also bring these empty ones into their function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34885	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic. Here you go, Mr. Representative. Your five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34886	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, a few words, I come from Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, we know that we have a free zone which is also established in 1997, so I'm going to start from the end to the beginning, I think the esteemed representative Klaric best described the state of the free zones of this moment in the Republic, if we look at the total income, our free zone, the Osijek zone achieves only 2% of the total income, the Vukovar even less, somewhere 0.8, and this is somehow the Croatia we often discuss here in HS, but I think that the free zones were essentially the spark that tried at least to burn economic flows in space, especially the east of Croatia which, let's be honest and '97. As another part of the territory of Osijek-Baranja County, the east of Croatia was practically occupied, a peaceful reintegration came a year later. We're coming out of this period of 25 years and our free zone is going to expire next year, somewhere in the June month, but what it is and what's certainly a good legacy is that we have free zones that are likely to turn into economic zones, we have infrastructure, we have land, Osijek-Baranja County is the founder, i.e. the owner of the free zone in Osijek with 96%. We have a total of about 130 thousand square meters, to translate it into hectares, it's about 13 acres, a zone in Osijek is located in a very attractive place, I'd say it's in a great place, on the banks of the Drava River, and someone mentioned, I think it's Mrs. Dark-Taritash mentioned that no warehouses should be excluded from the potential of the economy, and benefits from it. I believe that, of course, by entering the EU, the circumstances have changed significantly by the time we were a member of the EU, it is seen by traffic tables where, of course, it has been much, much better today for certain operators who have remained in the zone, of course, in this intermediation with third countries, where VAT and customs are not paid, is that right, they are achieving these benefits. Somewhere around 150 employees are in our zone in Osijek and I'm sure, here and as deputy mayor I've had the opportunity to be in their congregations, I think that the good potential lies in these free zones, I hope that it's also thinking about turning them into economic zones and that they are, here, some magnet to attract investors in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. Of course, and Vukovar-Srijemska, let's be honest, the east of Croatia is certainly something that needs to be greatly strengthened economically because let's be honest, when the line is drawn, in all indicators, that part of Croatia still lags behind Zagreb and what is closer to the city of Zagreb. So here's what's been heard here, and I think we should think about what's going to happen next June. Osijek Baranja County, Osijek-Baranja Mayor certainly of course, and the city of Osijek as a place where the zone is located, have already certain plans, which with the zone to make them function, how to attract as many investors as possible to their economic activities to improve the course of the economy in our area. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34887	Thank you. Representative Ivanovic, you have one replica, please welcome dear colleague Budalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34888	Here, dear Vice President, Your Honor. Your report shows that the free zones over the past 25 years have contributed significantly to the development of the economy in your area. Of course, you yourself said in your presentation that the circumstances changed after Croatia joined the EU. Do you think it is possible to continue with economic activities and after the end of the 25-year concession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34889	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34890	Thank you very much. I don't think there's a possibility, but it just has to go on with it, it's something in itself that's already in place. Of course, circumstances will be something different and I said that this is a good opportunity, especially for the east of Croatia which I say is a significant economic lag behind. I hope and believe in both the help and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister, of course we all realize together that this is a good predisposition for something that can be expected in the years ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34891	Thank you. Next in line for an individual debate, a distinguished counterpart, Anka Mrak-Taritash, was reported. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34892	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with the co-worker. So, let me rephrase what I said and in the name of the club, it's one report that really gives all the information that we can discuss on this subject. Otherwise, lately, it is tending to this HS to decide what is the subject or what is not the subject and to decide when the debate is good or when the debate is not good. Each of us is a parliamentary representative, in his own words speaking and representing certain ideas and interests, we have parliamentary representatives of general practice who understand everything, and we have parliamentary representatives who have certain topics and on these topics report that they speak and that is the case in this assembly and will be. I'm going back to what really is the subject of this debate, and that's the Free Zone Report. There at the beginning of this century, about 2000, 2001, I received a gift from a book that was architectural, spatial-plannery and which talked about what cities will be built in the future and what will be in those cities and how space will be used in the future and one, there were a number of authors and one author was actually talking about that in the future you will be building cities with buildings where you will live and you won't have any need to get out of your apartment, all needs, or out of the building, to be more accurate, you will be able to achieve all needs in your building, you will have a link to cultural events, you will have sport, you will be able to do everything else. My first thought when it was, so it doesn't matter, maybe those cities are in the future, but where I'm going to be, I'm going to be in Mirogoja a long time ago or somewhere when that's the case. This crown actually showed us that what I read in that book, it's 20 years old, is not far from reality. I'm also looking at these free zones. So, '96. So the '96 Free Zones Act. A year, '96. Mr. when they were free zones, they were absolutely in other conditions and other ways. In 2021, we should look at these free zones in a different way. I must admit that I am always thinking in pictures and working in pictures and always in Croatia I look at what potentials are because from everything we need, from these reports, these reports are not written in a way that we would have reason to sit in the Assembly, so that we would have shown which one of us is smarter or less smart, who has read, who has not read, but I read these reports in a way that I read what we should do and do in the future. Likewise, and the topic of free zones in terms of using space, I look at the way that what needs to be done in the future. In the future, this type of free zone, like it was in '96. or over the past 25 years, things have changed. The way has changed, Croatia has become an EU member, every job you do is a good job. There should be no exception to the role of units of local self-government who have an interest in having certain areas where someone will work. The worst thing that can happen is that you have a place where nobody does anything. You've spent space, for local self-government units in the end line, you have to maintain the road of that space, you have to pay public lighting, if you don't use, the best-ordered apartment, you can have the best decorated apartment, you have 5 years, if you don't use it, after 5 years of getting into that apartment, if nothing else, you'll have to check the heating system, check it out. That's how I think about the area where they're free zones. Those free zones that have potential will continue to develop under other conditions. What is our task is the task of the ministry which is here that the space where the free zones were where there was no longer a perspective, that this is the space where some other activity and some other work are allowed. Likewise, so that's the potential we have. I've just said one fact from this pay phone recently, imagine someone coming and saying I want to build a toy factory. What can we offer them, what can we tell them, what do we have to talk about? I also have to admit the current free zones and those that are in liquidation, which are three free zones, but also the space and value that we have, which we can manage, which can enable, not only the development of local self-government units but also the development of entrepreneurial activity in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34893	Thank you, Representative Dark-Taritash. Next in line, the individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Damir Habian. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34894	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I will just briefly refer to this Report on Free Zones for 2019. So a lot has already been said about the number of current free zones, statistics, analyses, the number of employees within the zone, the amount of income, profits, etc. I would actually refer to something else and use this debate for a free zone that ended in 2016. It is about the Varazdin Free Zone. So a lot of MPs here mentioned the area and mentioned that in 2016, it ceased to exist, so as a free zone. Someone on the side might be able to get home, so it's actually mentioned in one negative context, so I'd actually just like to explain and say a few words about the Varazdin Free Zone, but also what actually happened after its termination of the Varazdin Free Zone. In September 2001, therefore, a company for the management of the Varazdin Free Zone was established in February 2002. The government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to grant concessions for the establishment of the Varazdin Free Zone. Until 2016 Until the end of its work in the Varazdin Free Zone, more than 160m euros, i.e. one billion kuna and 200 million kuna, which is still the largest and most successful greenfield investment in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think we should particularly point out how much he was and what the impact of the Varazdin Free Zone on the Varazdin County economy is. As I have initially said, Croatia's entry into the EU, users within free zones, were left without the advantages provided by the free zone institute compared to the EU market, so in fact, all users agreed and requested to leave the free zone regime, given that their operating conditions outside the free zone regime are more acceptable than their operating conditions in the free zone regime. Given that when we look at users in the Varazdin Free Zone, 93% of their exports ended right on the EU market. What I would particularly like to emphasise is that none of the users of the Varazdin Free Zone have stopped working, as much as all companies have continued to work on their own locations and continue to work on employment, this has been announced by further expansion on the territory of the former zone and, moreover, some have just announced new needs for land and for the expansion of their production and beyond the very location of the existing or earlier Zone Varazdin. I'm saying this because the fact that the number of users in the free zones falls does not mean that the companies that operate in them are closing their plants or firing workers. Certainly, these companies will not take away the production halls and leave but will not, overnight, fire workers for this very reason, and I have cited this example of the Varazdin Free Zone which, even after the end of working in free zone form, continued to work in a way that former users remain in that space and develop their activities and employ workers. The other thing I'd like to mention, which is exactly what we were, as the secretary of state said, talking about on the very Committee on Economy is these two areas that are in liquidation. In the same little perhaps awkward context, the ministry may also be mentioned here and would like to point out that the course of the winding-up procedure or the longevity of the same is not within the scope of this ministry, but, of course, depends on the complexity of the liquidation process itself. The members of the company are therefore users of concessions that initiate the liquidation process themselves and about their activity or we can say inactivity, prepare the documentation and the rest depends on the course of the liquidation process itself. It is also necessary to collect all claims, to settle all possible creditors, to cash in assets, and only then, after the completion of that final financial winding-up report, have the conditions for the completion of the winding-up procedure and the removal from the Court Register. Here's just so much, since we say these two things might be mentioned today in one negative context, so here's to not staying in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34895	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Habib. We're done with individual debates. Now we have two final hearings that have been reported. On behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, she will be the first to become a respected representative of Zeljko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34896	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice Presidents, MPs and MPs. I'd just like to go back a little bit to the debate, given that it's somehow out of control, so we've all gone out of the free zones together, we've gone into business zones, and we've started thinking about a business zone in a strange way or a free zone in a strange way to say one fellow, people come out, or business entities come out of the free zone because there's no interest. It's not in the interest, it's just that there's no need anymore. In view of the fact that there is no longer any need to operate under the conditions under which business is carried out in the business zone. The entity leaves the free zone and goes to the business zone for ease of business. Why? There are no more jobs with third countries, no need to postpone payment of VAT, no need to postpone payment of any customs duty and go to a business zone where it can operate more easily, and that is a brief and clear answer, which is why we are actually losing the entities in business areas. If something new happens to us, some new legislation at Union level, or if we need to follow something differently, it is likely that these zones will be filled again. We, when we entered the EU, actually lost track of how much we export to which country within the EU, so we got that portal or Interstat system that we type data into, on the basis of which we are now being monitored for exporting to which country and imported from which countries and which are being trafficked with EU members. However, if we have increased jobs with third countries, I believe we will continue to have the fill-in of these business zones as we did at the beginning of those zones. The other thing I wanted to say was about the business of these business areas. It is clear to all of us that this is a fenced area in the territory of Croatia in which goods are treated differently. The goods go in under customs control and come under customs control, without that, there's no way in, there's no way out. And that's why those who don't have to use that zone come out of that zone. The complication is with the entrance, with the exit and with the manipulation of the goods. I believe that those applications or suggestions that we have referred to the Ministry of Free Zones and the activities that might be good to implement according to local self-government would be accepted because I believe that areas which are currently affected by the free zone and which are already arranged and fenced and in one part may also be infrastructureised would be a shame to fail and that business entities must seek some other areas, if these areas are truly free and if they can re-train production on that part without the manipulation of the goods, as provided for in the free zone. And what I said will be accepted by your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34897	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavic. And now it is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the final word, the distinguished representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34898	Here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague. So we don't stay in the air and we sort of conclude this agenda point where it's obvious that we'll all agree that the report is good and that the report is useful. What I'm reporting for right now, everyone that we're communicating with the economy in some way, we're starting certain activities to make their work easier, we know what their biggest problem is. I often say that sometimes it's less criminal if someone steals money, that it's a much bigger crime if someone steals time and time is what sometimes happens here in the Republic of Croatia which we should never let and think about not waiting. We have these two cases that the secretary of state has been talking about since 2018, in 2021, we're, the economy doesn't stand to steal his time, that's the thing. Another thing is in the community of European peoples with new circumstances, we need to think about it in a more modern way, not restricting people who run various regulations because it can sometimes be counterproductive. We have cases that, even in spatial planning, a colleague of Mrak Taritash also said that some way for successful local self-government units that are intensively driven by the economy, which need space to develop the economy, and have these opportunities in this part of the free zones and entrepreneurial zones to limit the space to some called squares of space within 20 km, so the premises of local self-government units that have imagined the entrepreneurial zone, but cannot activate, we had that regulation, or those regulations that limited the units of local self-government to get state land for the development of these business zones for similar reasons. We have that '91 part. and enrollment through the state property attorneyship of the local self-government units of the Republic of Croatia, if according to that famous space plan of '91, it was agricultural land so that a number of local self-government units found themselves in the problem that something in the land books was owned by local self-government units. This may sound to someone that it's not the topic of this agenda point, but it's very much because all the free and entrepreneurs of the area that we've had the opportunity to hear about here are located in a certain space and that they should be activated to solve property relations, we need to sort out the cadastre, the grant books and everything else that goes on. Why do we need the number of free zones and the trap on the measure we really need in Croatia? Well, it's just for a reason because we're moving forward. Let's remember that before the trains, they used to drive dean shipments in those G wagons, that a little bit of that story is lost, that the warehouses are not only in Rijeka, but if we look at the nearby Trieste where these goods were sometimes placed in various sacks or wooden palettes practically collapse just for the reason that the containers took over that role and the integrated transport, so we modernize, and we often stay in some times behind, and we don't think too much about what's going to happen to us. And what's happening to us is happening right now, and in some ways we're here in this honorable House guilty of everything that's going to happen. By supporting good legal solutions, our useful debates and our amendments that we are trying in some way to improve with some kind of experience or knowledge that will make our citizens better alive. Here's the HDZ Representatives' Club, as I believe, and all the other clubs will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-18-0.u34899	Thank you, Your Honor. This has exhausted the list of registered representatives and representatives for the discussion of the Report on Free Zones Management in the Republic of Croatia in 2019. I'm closing the debate. I thank all those who participated in the same, you State Secretary with an associate, too. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
