ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71505	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs, before we move to the first point of today's agenda of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy on the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose to conduct a joint discussion on points 2 to 8 of the agenda for today's debate, which is that package of laws related to social care. Are you okay with that? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was gonna say that if we agree to have this one for 15 minutes as clubs. That okay? It's not okay yet? All right, then let's go, pal Bencic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71506	I wanted to ask you to mark International Day against Violence against Women before we begin today with a minute of silence as a Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to point out that today we will point out one fatal fact, which is that 15 minutes in Croatia a woman is physically abused and that We will mark the alarms every 15 minutes that will ring during the morning here in the assembly to realize how often, in fact, women are constantly victims of violence in this country and that we haven't done enough for them. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic.]] I'd like to ask you if we could just shut up for a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71507	My colleague Bencic, you well know that we have agreed that such, such requests be made to the President of the Croatian Parliament before the meeting to agree on it then, and I would suggest it as I have done several times already. Now that you're out of each procedure and you're saying it's not fair to all of us, I'm going to give you a minute of silence but we could agree to invite other MPs and MPs and make that kind of thing as objective as it belongs to that subject. So I'm asking you to do it again as agreed because it's correct and fair. Let's just finish with this point of the eye, about the agenda. Then are you all agreeing to unite the debate? Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We agree to unite the debate, but with two less interventions because we already had that problem the last time we united the debate. This is about a lot of points, important laws, so we'd like to make two exceptions to unification. So, let's extend the time of the club presentation that you said yourself, that if there are more promoters or if there will be more speakers on behalf of the promoter to allow for the possibility of replicating everyone, okay, I say if there is. And three, since I'm saying it's a lot of points that there's instead of three, five replicas allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71509	With five replicas, I can't allow that to happen with the Rules of Procedure, but I agree with these two proposals. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71510	Thank you very much. In principle, I think the united debate can contribute to some more rapid debates, but it is about a set of laws where different topics are actually brought together in a united debate. If you'd decided to put two or three laws together, then that would have made sense. I am so afraid that what was essential will be lost and I think that this united debate is about a set of laws that are very important to the social community, which require really extra thinking will not contribute to the improvement but just to speed things up, and it is never a matter, speed will not bring every time to quality, so I don't agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71511	So are you asking us to vote or what? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, we agreed 15 minutes per club, but we agreed there was only one proposer, so there won't be any need for that more times, but five replicas can't allow it. So I am now voting on the proposal which came from the Committee on Lawmaking and the Committee on Health and Social Policy to conduct a joint discussion on points 2 to 8, I will now read them that everyone knows, that is: Proposal for a Law on Social Care, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, Proposal for a Law on Educational Rehabilitation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Psychological Activity, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Activity of Social Labour and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social and Pedagogical Activity. Who's in favor of having a united discussion? Please hand-me-down so my colleague, the Bucharian, please count. Yeah, okay. Who's against it? And who's restrained? Please get the results. Here I find that 34 MPs voted, 23 were in favour, 9 were against and 2 were abstentioned so that we adopted this proposal and we will conduct a united debate on these points. And now, on the proposal of MP Bencic, I will ask that we honor all women who have been victims of violence, to do as Parliament, as another additional effort to raise awareness of our citizens, our citizens about that mutual respect, tolerance is a very important act, a very important part of our life, to invite all institutions in the Croatian state to strengthen the care and supervision and punishment of those who commit violence against women. And once again I call upon all of you who are here to strengthen our awareness in Croatian society of the need to protect women from violence by personal action. Please remain silent for all women killed by violence. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal glory and thank them. - I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71524	The first statement of view is on behalf of the Centre and Glass, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71525	The chairman, the few colleagues and colleagues. While we're still under the impression of the sound of flying over these French planes, I'm going to give a little breath of France as a part of this debate and free speech. In fact, long ago, the European Commission had a very unusual composition from 95th to 99th famous Santor's Commission at one point forced to step down collectively and this is to this day one, a unique case such that the most powerful body of the European Commission was obliged to resign because of a whole series of corruption affairs and cases considered a serious situation, a serious injury from the domain of conflict of interest. Among them were the former French prime minister, as a member of the commission, Mrs Cresson, who was charged with, according to our standards and cases, a very benign, benign case of conflict of interest. In fact, she was in charge of a portfolio related to science, research and development, and she somehow took a little advantage, not to a family member, not to a party colleague, not to some interested person, but to one of her acquaintances who apparently helped her through her life and in her political work, who was her dentist, so she put a little strain on the employment criteria in her own office, and because of this favorisation, there was also a process by the competent authorities of the European Union. She was eventually convicted, even part of her pension was seized because of the case, and that case would like to be a little more exploited when some of the anti-corruption issues in this House come, but why is this case particularly interesting to me. In fact, when European courts decided on the severity of her injuries, they said that she had lost her trust, or embezzled trust. The financial amount damaged by the European Union budget was trivial and negligible, perhaps some thousand euros, for example. However, the trust she played meant that a person who is in such a powerful position, if he does not trust that function to be performed according to expectations, means that he can no longer perform the function at all. I can't imagine a stronger message than that. And this is what I am saying in the context of what is waiting for us tomorrow, which is the debate on the report of the main state attorney, for which part of the opposition is already seeking her shift, among other things because she no longer leaves the confidence that she is doing her work impartially in accordance with her tasks, powers and expectations of Croatian citizens. I'm asking the next question, which would happen if the government really listened to the voice of the people, so it says it will really run and initiate the shift of the current chief state attorney, which will eventually lead to the replacement of the CEO of USKOK. Can we expect HDZ to appoint another person who would really turn that body into what it really should be. No, of course not. The current leadership of both the USKOK and the DORH will respond in a strong manner, each of which will be followed as long as it is selected by the HDZ. And what does that really mean about the current government, the government, HDZ and HDZ's parliamentary majority? So doesn't that mean that they too, in fact, have their constitutional duty, their chance to exercise power, use in a way that doesn't elicit citizens' trust. Wasn't that trust in this particular case, but on a whole series of other cases long, long ago, embezzled. So are we looking as an opposition enough to initiate the shift of the state's attorney general, and thus the leaders in the criminal prosecution system, unless we are also looking for a replacement of the current government, starting with the government and its parliamentary majority. To further argue this, it is by the Constitution that Parliament should exercise control, control of the work of the executive government, and now we are in a vicious circle. USKOK is not doing its job, the DORH is not doing its job and we no longer have confidence in them, and because they favor Andrej Plenkovic and his ministers who do not process. Andrej Plenkovic is doing nothing, and his parliamentary majority does not see that he is in on it. Gentlemen, all the soup you've earned is a shift. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71555	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71556	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Do you know that over one third of women on a global scale will experience some form of violence during their lives? It's very literally a global crisis, because gender-conditional violence knows neither physical, religious, cultural, nor language barriers. It is important to stress that violence against women is the most widespread form of endangerment of fundamental human rights, the most widespread form, and very little reported, as the largest number of cases remain officially unregistered, and in Croatia alone statistics say that every 15 minutes a woman is physically abused. More than 4,500 cases of gender-founded violence were reported last year, and since research shows that only every third reported, this means that the actual figure is over 12 thousand. The reasons that so little is reported are mistrust in the system, fear of the Stigma and lack of support. Today, the whole world marks International Day for Combating Violence against Women. The marking of that day was inspired by the brutal murders of three Mirabal sisters, who were killed in 1960 because of their political action and resistance to dictatorship. They were called "Las Mariposas" (Leptirica), and in the remote Dominican Republic braved the dictatorial regime established by Trujillos. They were brave, active, bold, and killed cowardly and brutally. Just as women today suffer and die because of unconscious and poor cowards, and these are not only those who commit violence but also those who support it, protect, rationalize, justify or turn their eyes because it is the easiest thing not to see. All both women and men, all who had ever heard, seen, known that violence was committed against a woman, and then tried to rationalize it themselves and turned their eyes and did not protect all the poor cowards who directly contribute to the need to mark this day for 60 years after Sister Mirabal was killed. Although Latin America began to mark it back in '81. This day has been officially marked as international since 2000 after the UN adopted its resolution in December '99. about the elimination of violence against women. So, for a minimum of 20 years, we've been talking about it, we like to talk about it, and we like to mark various anniversarys, but maybe the most important thing is that we do those 364 days a year between the two anniversarys, what do we do in our country? Are we following ratification of the Istanbul Convention? Not exactly, and the most obvious indicator is the lack of counselling, shelters, safe houses, regional crisis centres for women victims of violence. Annual reports by the Ombudsman on gender equality, which continue to list a large number of cases of violence against women and femicidals and inadequate measures to fight the same, remind us that we are working little as a society to address these problems. Some parts of our society, for example. civil society associations with very limited resources because they do not have permanent budgetary funding doing everything they can, and sometimes it seems more than we would think possible. So, for example, this year as part of a global campaign to prevent violence against women, the civil sector marks 16 days of activistism. Wherever possible, I know that opposition MPs will join and give them support as they do right now in front of HS. And as for policies on behalf of their club, the Social Democrats can announce that we have prepared a code of conduct on gender discrimination with the rules on the treatment of sexual harassment and violence, the first one that any club in HS has ever had. I call on other clubs and parties to do the same, I call on this Parliament to do the same as other parliaments in the world. And I will end up with one important note, the Government's Office for Gender Equality, seven years later, with the adoption of a basic document of the National Strategy for Gender Equality. The head of the office on the Committee on Gender Equality almost nine months ago promised that the document would be completed by the end of June, and here we are in the November document, and the government is something that should have been a national strategy that is being discussed and voted in HS, which has turned into a national plan that doesn't even have to appear in this home. Why? So that we may not notice that seven years later, this country does not have a basic document for gender equality. But never mind, it's important to mark this day once a year, the other 364 days we don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71579	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71580	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, 25.11. and in the Republic of Croatia, we mark International Day for Combating Violence against Women, which is the most widespread form of endangering fundamental human rights and freedom and is a completely unacceptable form of social behaviour which also represents discrimination against women. What is particularly worrying and sad is that the largest number of violences caused by a married, off - marriage partner or relatives remain unrecognizable and unregistered because they are not reported to the institutions. Women find it difficult to report a bully, most often because of fear of causing abusers again and causing even more serious abuse, economic addiction, low levels of confidence, opinion that no one can help them anyway, the inability to find long accommodation, employment, child care, etc. In our society, a large number of women are afraid to report violence even though many are exposed to violence over a long period of time, and sometimes they have no opportunity to do so or do not know how and whom it is important to raise awareness to the public that it is the duty of anyone who suspects domestic violence and violence against women to report to the police and thus potentially prevent further abuse and save someone's life. We are in a period of pandemic caused by the coronary virus, which by its long duration, isolation, reduced social contacts, fear, concern for existence favors increased violence against women and families. We all need to be a common goal of raising awareness and sensitizing the public about the fact that violence is not happening to someone else but that it is present in our environment for everyone and everyone is obliged to report it. Women and children are the most common victims of domestic violence, so women's determination to report sustained violence in order to prevent future violence, and it has already been sanctioned. In this way, it is possible for a child in the family not to learn negative patterns of behavior and to prevent the spread of intergenerational transmission of violent behavior. The Government of the Republic of Croatia advocates a zero tolerance policy on violence against women and is taking on a number of activities from the promotion of the legislative and strategic framework to ensuring regional availability of prevention, counselling and assistance for victims of violence, the availability of shelter accommodation services throughout the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with civil society associations providing financial resources for the work with victims of violence. A national media campaign has been launched with the slogan "Empathy Now for Society Without Violence" and a free 24-hour phone line 116006 as part of the system of prevention against violence and the protection of the victim. Experience shows that inter-resorship cooperation is necessary, and the exchange of experience of information related to violence is precisely why a national team is founded, and at a local level it is important to form and operate inter-resor county teams to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. Before yesterday in Gospić, we held a constitutive session of the county team and round table on the topic "Strengthening the capacity of the county team to prevent and combat violence against women and violence in the family" which I am a member of, and I call on colleagues and fellow MPs to join in the work of their local county teams to help them in their work. The Lika-Senj County has just not established an adequate system of prevention, support and protection against violence against women and domestic violence. Therefore, it is in June 2021. the signed Contract on the grant of grants to provide support systems for women victims of domestic violence and the woman victim thanks to which temporary shelter for victims of violence is under way and the workers will soon begin work to put her into office until the moment until a safe house in the county is fully arranged. In our society, it is important to point to zero tolerance for any violence, especially violence against women, and therefore violence experienced and observed should not be silenced, violence should not be shamed and blamed on itself. Violence should be reported in order to stop and sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71618	The next statement is on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71619	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will present today the position of the SDSS on violence against women in the International Day against violence against women we mark. This is actually the day of the masculine assassination of 3 sisters, 3 political activists from the Dominican Republic executed not so long ago but in 1960, we mark it for raising awareness that women around the world today are exposed to various forms of violence, from family to any other, are exposed to rape, are exposed to economic violence, as I have said to various other forms. Violence against women is a very widespread form, we heard one of the most widespread and what is, in fact, the most attention is that it remains unreported. Women, women are reluctant to report a bully most often from fear of challenging and causing an even more difficult form, because of economic addiction, because of a low level of self-esteem and a valid belief that no one can actually help her. It is often said that silence is gold, but keeping quiet about violence against women is not a wise move, we will not do well if we turn our heads or if we do not want to get involved in other people's private matters, but if we step down and report to a bully we will certainly end the agony that may be taking years, perhaps we will rip a tormented woman out of the plight of a bully, maybe help her simply turn the other leaf, and above all, we may save her life, and that is, you will agree with an immeasurable category. It is important that the public knows that in the last few months we have witnessed an increase in violence, which is confirmed by police statistics because the number of murders and attempted murders in Croatia in the first nine months has drawn dangerously close to the total number of murders recorded and attempted murders compared to the whole last year. In the first nine months, more rapes and attempted rapes were reported than in the whole last year. I will dedicate a special part to a particularly neglected group of women, and these are women with disabilities who are also experiencing violence and it is certain that this form of violence against women with disabilities is certainly affected by the pandemic, it has led us all to be committed to each other, and women with disabilities are not actually able to report violence, very often they are not able to report it because the bully is always present. They actually report violence when a bully leaves the house and manages to get to the phone. Violence against women with disabilities is large, in fact three times greater than violence against other women and abusers are a wider spectrum of persons not just family members. Women with disabilities especially decide not to report violence because they depend on the bully, if she can't get out of bed alone and walk out of the house by herself who's going to help her, but this bully who's keeping her quiet and suffering. Some of the world’s statistics show that 80% of women with disabilities have survived some kind of sexual violence, especially women with mental disabilities, and we must never forget that actually women with disabilities have the same needs as others with certain obstacles to achieving them. In addition to the prevention that needs to be crucial, it is certainly necessary to take care of sanctions for perpetrators, where monetary sanctions are not the best solution, but certainly better to prohibit approximation, harassment, stalking, as well as other measures that protect the victim and allow it to enjoy full rights without reducing dignity. On International Day against Violence against Women, we must be loud in that fight every day, not just today. Why? Because Sisters Mirabal have just put their lives into this fight. [[Intruder: Time.]] And to us belongs nothing but the right to speak of it, and to stand up to it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71625	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71626	As president of the Committee on Gender Equality, I feel a special commitment and duty to talk about the problem of violence against women, and I am glad that we have now heard a significant number of parliamentary deputies who have rightly warned about this growing problem. But before I even start talking about violence against women at all, I have to establish a devastating fact, which is that it turns out that we're just talking and as we talked about last year, as we speak this year, the question, are we going to go back to this speaker ritually on this day or National Day of Combating Violence against Women just talking? To speak without what we say affecting practice. Without things changing in a way that violence can be contained. What I'm telling you here isn't just floscule. I will present the latest data from the MUP on violence against women and domestic violence that warns that not only has the tragic trend not only changed last year, so we have only spoken because everything we have said has not led to a change in practice that is necessary and that saves lives in this particular problem, but the trend has continued to grow, and this is the biggest problem and the greatest tragedy of violence against women, which remains only the desire of certain speakers convenient for this Assembly speaker. Last year, the crime of domestic violence, hence the most severe forms of violence at the time of the pandemic, not only grew worldwide and Europe, but was growing in Croatia worrying 40%. One would expect that after such an alert to all institutions, it would become a first-class society and a political issue and that in practice this year we would get at least some better figures. At least stagnation or minimal fall. But the truth is far from our desires. The total crime to harm children in the family in the Republic of Croatia compared to last year has 17% higher. The total crime at the expense of children and families in Sisak-Moslavina County has almost 20% higher. I was particularly warning about this last year because women there are at double risk, on one side of the pandemic that puts them in unspeakable circumstances, and then the earthquake that left the family in a place of several square meters, where all those living with the bullies can neither get away from them nor the conditions are such as to potentify dissatisfaction, and unfortunately violence. Severe murder increased by 33%, intrusive behavior by 66%. Rape 52% and sexual harassment 116%. The crime of domestic violence, therefore precisely the worst violence recorded by 40% last year, continued to grow by 8.4% this year. So, not only are we not stagnant or what we were hoping for, we fell, but growth is still noticeable. Also, there were 5.2 times more women in the 2020 crime scene, while in 2021 we have 6.3 times more victims of women than men. The numbers are, unfortunately, inexorable. Family violence at the time of the pandemic continues to rise. And it needs to be an alarm for all of us here because it's not enough just to talk, but to do something concrete. And what do you do? So is it time to finally team up our crisis headquarters that manages this pandemic of people who are about to deal with the prevention of an increase in domestic violence and to allocate material resources for his work? In addition to further investment in media propaganda, can we enable alternative ways of reporting violence by example to France and Spain? Can we gather data and NGOs and all other social actors involved in the repression of violence to see really what is going on on in the field and to stop being a story and cry out for individual representatives rather than finally change something in practice? Yeah, for a change to change something and suppress violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71650	Following is the statement on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71651	I thank my colleagues and fellow MPs. I wanted to take a quick look at some statements yesterday from the current clock to make it clear to the end. So, Prime Minister Plenkovic, on my question about Covid's certificates and on the recent statement of member of the Staff, Dr. Markotic quoted in his reply to Pope Franjo and this is an interesting phenomenon in this pandemic that some politicians usually from the left, but the prime minister also knows how to use it as an argument, mentioning the Holy Father's position on the welfare of vaccination and the like. And I'd just like to warn you that it wouldn't be good just to do it selectively. Therefore, if we are to respect the words of the Holy Father, we should be consistent and do so more often in discussions on various issues. I mentioned the abortion, as one example, but there are more. And that is especially true for politicians who come from this democratic spectrum, it would be quite expected and something that would be in line with the principles that are declared and allegedly protected. However, I need to say something about this apartment, so we have an announced referendum, I think it's very important to support it in principle, it's not just one political option, it's also about how the state will treat these disasters in the future. As far as I understand it, the main purpose is to make arrangements in both the Constitution and the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases that must actually be decided in this House on these matters. It would not then be possible in the future that one body as a Civil Protection Staff brings in very much, he would say, heavy restrictions to all of us, without asking the Parliament in advance. So the Homeland Movement certainly feels that we should ask our people more about things, not less. Therefore, there will be an interesting debate that will follow, but I will once again warn, regarding the current measures and purposes, the purpose of these Covid passes. Experiences from many countries, from Baltic to Central European, so Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Slovenia, but also from the Netherlands and Belgium, in countries where Covid passes are already in force, the experience is that they are not effective. They don't stop the spread of the infection, and it's something that needs to be kept repeating, and that's why I raised my voice last Saturday, because I think in this situation that's already difficult, this measure is actually going to make it even more difficult. So far, Croatia has had soft or liberal measures compared to other countries. We've benefited greatly, I'd say, from that, from all of us. But now the government has made a turn, I don't know why she may have been scared, seen what's going on with the pandemic, but why is it actually following countries that haven't managed to contain, but the figures are increasingly unfavorable, increasingly unfavorable, it's in some way even vague, even unclear. So, we don't need to have any complex with regard to others, what the Germans or Austrians do, necessarily doesn't have to be good, we have our experts, our scientists, people who have won a world-wide reputation, who can advise the government to go in one sensible, to persist in a discreet direction, and now it hasn't, but it reproves its own citizens and it can't end well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71674	The presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71675	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Last week we marked the 30th anniversary of the death of the heroic city of Vukovar, remembered all the victims of the Homeland War, and everything really went with dignity, as it would be when there must be casualties in the great Serbian aggression first. Unfortunately, two days before that, on November 16th, a great peacemaker and peacemaker, Miroslav, Mr. Pupovac, together with the vice president of the Croatian government, throws a crown in the Danube, where he remembers so-called. Serbian civilian war victims. It is primarily about civilians who were the ringleaders of the Serbian rebellion in Vukovar in the spring and summer of 91st, who collected weapons in their basements, food products for so-called endangered Serbs. And who already had their cells inside the hero city. And then this same Milorad Pupovac, along with the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Milosevic, went on the same day to bow down to the victims and the same large-serb aggression that he had just thrown a crown into the Danube. How many cynicisms in one day, how many cynicisms in one place. The city of Vukovar, the city of hero, the biggest victim of the Croatian State's Homeland War, where 2,717 victims of major Serb aggression. And in that city, the vice-president of the Croatian government throws a crown for innocent victims, they say, members of Serbian nationality, and essentially the ringleader of the Serbian rebellion. It's like Angela Merkel leaving today with a delegation to Auschwitz and laying a crown for the German soldiers killed, that's the same rank. On sacred Croatian soil, where so much Croatian blood has been spilled, Mr. Pupovac, a great peacemaker, dares to do so. More than that, Vukovar, it hurts his statement, where he says, it's my dream that this city will not be divided into a memory or a memorial. What I'm doing has the goal of stopping that division. So it is this act, where it worships at the same time in the same day as the victim and the aggressor, and the executioner and the victim, that is nothing but an additional division and its apparently sacred goal of equating the victim and the aggressor. But it saddens us that it's been so long that none of the relevant factors in the state government have responded to that. To the constant distortion of history by the main coalition partner of the SDSS. Every victim really needs to bow down, every civilian sacrifice, but we can never allow ourselves to worship those who were the ringleaders of large-serb aggression and who already planned in the summer of 91 how to address the issue of Vukovar in the short process. And if the individuals hadn't ended up like that, you know what would have happened to us Vukovars? There wouldn't be 2,717 casualties, there'd be 5 grand of us. I'm telling you openly, we'd be slaughtered in June as lambs in the year 91, until the defense was established. And we all know that and we allow such individuals to distort history for us, the winners of the Homeland War. It hurts even more that individuals on behalf of the Croatian government come and lay their crowns. What we've burned down to as a society and wonder what it's like for us Vukovars, who live there 365 days. Be in our skin sometime, don't remember Vukovar just 18. 11. Imagine how we feel, how people feel on the Trpinj road where I come from. Where every other house lost someone, when they see characters like the great peacemakers who lay their crowns to those who wanted to slaughter us in 91 years and nobody says anything. Don't remember Vukovar just 18. 11. You live in Vukovar 365 days a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u71676	Here's what we're done with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72224	We will now move to the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 213 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 213 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the bill. With us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Tomislav Mihotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72225	... These amendments and additions to the Road Law continue to implement the reform measures of the road sector. [[Specially enabled.]] The existing legal framework of the Road Law shall be governed by compliance with the provisions of the two Directives which, as a member of the EU, transpose into their legislation and by Directive 520/2019 which lay down the conditions necessary to ensure the interoperability of electronic toll systems and facilitate the cross-border exchange of data from vehicle registers and vehicle owners or vehicle users for which the non-payment of any type of toll in the Union has been established. Directive 1936/2019 aims to improve road safety through changes to road safety and road extension procedures outside the network and further harmonize the provisions of the Law with Directive 40/2010 EC of 7 July 2010 relating to intelligent road transport systems. In addition to this harmonisation, the EU rules are also prescribed. Parts that make up the public road are complemented by structures that serve the transport of bicycles and the movement of pedestrians, thus harmonising the definitions of components of public and non-classified roads within the meaning of the Roads Act. It says who the toll bonds are. This provision lays down that toll payment bonds for the use of highways and facilities on state roads are subject to the charge of toll of a driver, owner of a vehicle or person entitled to use a vehicle on the basis of a contract, user of an electronic toll system and provider of a European electronic toll charge, release from the obligation to pay toll for emergency vehicles. The provisions shall specify the vehicles to which emergency services are not charged by the use of highways and charging facilities to allow highway managers and toll collection facilities to be treated equally with users. VAT funds for the use of highways and road facilities under charge by emergency service vehicles are secured in the state budget at the positions of the transport ministry. Elimination of the exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the right of construction and the right of service on the public road and equalising the conditions of business in such a way that all entrepreneurs will have a obligation to pay compensation for the establishment of the right of construction and the right of service on the public road. This provision excludes the application of the Law on the regulation of property legal relations for the purpose of building infrastructure buildings in the establishment of the right of service and the right to build on a public road. The compliance of the financial reports of Croatian highways and Croatian roads with international standards of financial reporting is ensured, based on which large entrepreneurs draw up financial reports. The amount of compensation for the financing of the maintenance and construction of public roads paid from the state budget to Croatian road companies and Croatian highways per litre of charged excise duties on energy in accordance with the budget rules is limited. More detailed regulation of the road land use institutes is introduced, i.e. the saying is that all natural and legal persons using road land are obliged to pay compensation and in cases where no contract is concluded on the basis of which the right to use road land is exercised. The current Roads Act is in line with the Law on the authorisation and determination of minimum and the fixing of fees, and the proposed amendment will make it significantly easier for the beneficiaries of the expropriation, for investors to enter the property of the authorised property prior to the power of the decision on the exemption. The concept of a tollway is added and allows for the setting of self-adhesive foils at toll crossings since there is no definition of this concept in the current Roads Act, and for the reason that these changes and additions are allowed to place ads on toll crossings, which has not been the case so far. It is determined that part of the costs for the regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter service in units of local self-government from mountainous areas are financed from the compensation for the financing of construction and maintenance of public roads, excise duties paid from the state budget at the expense of the Croatian Road Society. This provision allows for reducing the budgetary expenditure of local self-government units from mountainous areas used for the regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter service. Infringement provisions shall be complemented in order to punish the driver who operated the vehicle involved in the traffic of the highway or road object under charge, without paying the toll and penalties for all natural and legal persons using roadland without contract with the public road manager. 2 amendments to the Legislative Committee we adopt have been adopted through discussions on parliamentary committees. This Law amending and supplementing the Road Law is one of the indicators from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and its entry into force is also a prerequisite for the withdrawal of funds and we propose its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72226	You can stay here because we have replicas. The first one's next, dear fellow Highash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72227	Thank you. .../incomprehensible/...respected Mr. Mihotic, one question. The highway Zagreb – Macelj, interoperability for whose account and when, I am talking about the introduction of ENC.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72228	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72229	Well, we are here talking about the interoperability of the entire system so that the Zagreb highway – Macelj will also be through the introduction of the final implementation of this system, which is an objective deadline of some 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72230	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, although we discussed the committee very well yesterday, I would ask you once again to explain to the Croatian public something that could potentially be a problem. Therefore, the amendments to this law say it will make it easier for investors to enter early property before the power of the expropriation solution. Let's give another Croatian citizen what that means in their case. We understand investors, we understand the units of local self-government to explain to Croatian citizens what it means if a potential cycling or hiking trail, road or some other road or public service facilities pass through their yard or garden. What exactly does that mean for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72233	In any case, the provisions of the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation shall be implemented and introduced into the Roads Act. and introduce the Law of the Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72234	Secretary of State, just a minute. I'm asking you to turn off your cell phone, someone's been ringing for a long time, so it's not pleasant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72235	So the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation is implemented in the Roads Act and its provisions are implemented more effectively. In principle, this means that before power comes, a solution to the expropriation of an investor that realises a public road can enter into land ownership. There are instruments, notices and ways of investing and depositing money to compensate for damages in the future dispute, so no one disputes that the party can seek, but cannot prevent road construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72236	Let's move on. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72237	Thank you. Please, you can tell us, so you're changing the article. 37 amendments and additions. 86 century 2 and you prescribe that, for the use of public roads, the right of service, the right of construction, the right of way or other similar right for municipal, water, energy, as well as, among other things, electronic communication, is very important in this case, can be paid, i.e. to charge exclusively compensation which is actually a fee for service, only by the height that the Government decides only. When it comes to roads owned by local self-government, it actually limits autonomy and the ability of local self-government to manage and charge its infrastructure at the price it sets that it should be and that it chooses the collection model. Is that a service, is that a communal tax? Is that something third, you hereby [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're centralizing. [[Thank you very much.]] You only issue To the government and the state, that possibility. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72238	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72239	Well, the main intensity of this provision in the law was that all infrastructure investors and public and private investors were placed in the same position. What you were still talking about is the question of determining the fee, which should include HACOM and see how the amount of compensation itself is regulated. But, I'm saying, this article of the Law was exclusively and this came to our attention from the EU Commission because so far we have charged private companies with this fee, and we are not public. It is said that there must be no discrimination, and I am saying, that is the basic thing that this is brought into the law, and the question of compensation is the matter of price regulation, I speak, which should include both HACOM and other participants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72240	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72241	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. One of the reasons why you are going to an emergency procedure is the state budget, because this Law actually allows you to transfer funds for maintenance of unclassified roads to units of local self-government where there will be no more funds delegated to them but will go the way of Croatian roads which will, in turn, go to the item of Croatian roads and then they will talk about mountain-mountan areas, about cleaning up these roads during the snow, that is, the problems they have. What was the motive? What was the reason? So we had practice and it proved that these units were financially weak, we have that balancing fund and they've arranged to clear these roads and they've been given out of the balancing fund because they weren't possible from their budgets. You have now decided that this is all going the way of the Croatian Roads. What was the reason, which was motive, why are you doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72242	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72243	This system has been functioning for several years. I can't enter the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas because it wasn't the law in my ministry's jurisdiction, but we've been through excise funds for several years, and over the Croatian roads because it's from that part of the 0.8 kuna from the excise tax on Croatian roads we're giving away one part that goes for winter service in these areas that you listed. So we're just regulating it by law, and the criteria to be shared will be defined by the regulations of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72244	Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like two clarifications, firstly, regarding the Institute of Road Land Use. We in nature have such a situation that users have no contract and use road land. Whether tenders will now be opened for them, concessions so that it can be regulated legally or only invoices will continue to be issued in accordance with tax regulations. And first, that's first. Second, for these unclassified roads in local self-government units belonging to mountainous and mountainous areas, many of them do not have a Register of unclassified roads. De facto they don't even have enough money to go into that story. Does this mean that all unclassified roads will be maintained in winter or not, regardless of the register? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72246	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72247	So as for maintenance of unclassified roads, the rule will define the conditions for both roads and in some way and to what level to be maintained, and as far as the first part is concerned, that's where you asked the question, repeat to me the exact question not to spread [[Intruder: Will you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72248	Yeah, just a little bit. I mean, it's past the Rules of Procedure, I can't let that happen, so answer what you heard and it's over. [[I'm sorry.]] Now it's time for fellow Cosic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72249	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This Law, as you yourself have said, abolished the exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the right of construction and the right of public service on public roads, which equalises the operating conditions of all investors, so far it has been that certain companies that owned or units of local self-government or state did not pay this fee, so here, the law is passed at the end of the year, so I am interested in most of these municipal companies, including the companies, have adopted their business plan and where they did not predict this fee in the price of their services, and the law is now in force, and the contracts are six months, so that companies will succeed in... six months to change their business plans and of course you know what is the matter with the catasters that they will be able to determine the right amount needed for the conclusion of such contracts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72250	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72251	Well, that's a complex question, the utility companies had to have a register of their installations. We're aware there's no good part of them. Six months is the deadline of adjustment, preparation and the basis of that deadline and the start of implementation they will predict power in their financial plans through rebalancing and through plans for the next years of the means needed, so I think that system will be established without major earthquakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72252	My colleague Big Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72253	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here are many articles in the amendment mentioning this ENC system, of course, in the form that it adapts with other EU countries regarding data delivery. But I am interested in the fact that the ENC system came to Croatia 15 years ago, perhaps even more years ago, if there is any modernization of this, given that technology is going very quickly today, and what is 15 years old is probably not as attractive as the fast technology is going. We have examples in other countries of reading the registration tags of any apps, so here we are going to keep this ENC system that we have today or we're going to go into some kind of modernisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72255	Well, it's a basic matter of passing this law, so it means introducing interoperability. In principle, the ENC will ultimately not be. There won't be any checkouts on the freeway. So the aim of adoption and this law is to comply with the directive where there will be a free pass across all the places where the checkouts are today, and that means that they will be registered in another way of the vehicle. It will be registered by recording the vehicle registration camera and will then be downloaded from the ENC automatically, so there will be no congestion, there will be no additional pollution generated at those locations. Finally, the goal is to integrate the whole of Croatia and the EU into such a system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72256	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72257	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here are a few questions. How much will the state budget or Croatian road cost, or what is now being transferred to finance the maintenance of unclassified roads on Croatian roads? Question number two, do you have a strategy in the Ministry of Construction for electric cars? And another question here sounded to me that now there would already be an institute to punish those who don't pay toll. How is it possible for someone not to pay the toll? Here's the thing about people hearing, when there's a ramp here's what I don't get.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72259	Well, this amount in the budgets for '21, '22. and '23. is 10 million kuna as regards unclassified roads and mountain-mounted areas in winter conditions. And as for the charger, it goes to a special infrastructure law that's going to be the same in the Parliament, and then we'll discuss that way, so, and payment means stopping at the ramps and then there's a possibility of abuse. pass without having money on the ENC or otherwise the possibility of paying the service in that case, then these criminal provisions shall take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72260	My fellow Posavec, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72261	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Secretary of State. For more than 10 years, I have been advocating the idea that Zagreb County as a ring around the city of Zagreb will be freed from highway charges, toll collection. I don't have time to explain what the benefits would be primarily for the economy that the ring gives to the city of Zagreb. I wrote on several occasions on the initiative of the local self-government unit, we were on a conversation with the minister, the last answer was waiting precisely for this, interoperability, free space in all places. I wonder if now that we have welcomed it and when we pass the law, that means that the citizens of Zagreb County, those who pay the most expensive highway from Jastrebarski to Križ on the east side, will be free of charge and will be regulated in another way? And another thing that doesn't make your clarification clear to me, you said this law would allow for advertising and advertising to be made possible on the roadside. So every day, when we've been driving on the highway for more than six months, we've seen that these ads are glued to just toll homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72262	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72263	Well, as far as the toll is concerned, it's a living tissue, so it can always be corrected, whether there's this one or that billing system. We will certainly consider what it is justified to be within the collection system which is not, and then there is the possibility of a correction that you were talking about. And as far as the billing houses are concerned, it exists, but they are not regulated, there is no legal possibility that whoever does so is now illegal. While the homes exist, this possibility will be given through these laws because road managers have estimated that such advertising does not endanger traffic safety and does not interfere with traffic through these billing houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72264	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72265	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. Here's just so there's no confusion about these changes and the addition of the Road Law to explain to the citizens what's waiting for us in 2024, the fifth year at that charge. So do we cancel the full payment in cash, cards and any other way? Does only the ENC remain as one that will record possible passages through the current passageways that we have on the highways, or is a completely new system being implemented that we will only hear and learn? And secondly, as regards the maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter period in mountainous and mountainous areas, did experience show that these 10 million kunas cover the largest part of the costs that these local self-governments have or are only partially covered by them since I believe that these costs are much and greater given the number of local self-governments covered by this law and that this applies only to them or to some other local self-governments that are not in the law, yet located near or in the area of the mountainous and mountainous?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72266	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72267	Well, it certainly isn't all the costs that come from winter serve in those areas, this is the assistance that came from excise duty in the way I said on Croatian roads and based on the criteria that the ministry will define by regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72268	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, so I would ask you not to do this, we have shown respect and respect for the victims of violence, and as far as I understand this is every 15 minutes. I don't know any of Ursha Raukar's colleagues, do you? Sit down, allow me, so here he is in the constituencies we have 14 clubs and every club has something that he wants to emphasize in particular. Today we have given a minute of silence, shown respect for the victims of domestic violence, for women who have been killed by violence, but now if every five minutes or 15 minutes we will emphasize it as your specific part of the programme tomorrow let's say that my colleague Zekanovic wants something, colleagues from the Most, colleagues from the HDZ Liberals, so this is an institution that has its own rules and you bring me personally into a very unpleasant situation that I now have to arbitration over it. So, please and I invite you to pay our respects, it was a duty, I accepted the initiative of my colleague Bencic, but now I'm asking you a little bit more than anyone else not to do that. Comrade Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72269	... I would ask you nicely to allow two more bells because I think five that the fact that every 15 minutes in Croatia, in Croatia not in the world, in Croatia one woman is not affected sufficiently in Croatian public space and in Croatian society because then there would be no. I'm asking you nicely to allow two more bells and then we'll stop. It's an initiative representative, not one or two, but all, I'd like to ask you nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72270	I don't know, you could have informed me about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72271	I'm sorry to break your word, but my colleague Bencic said that, but maybe you didn't hear her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72272	No, no, that's what she said, just a little bit I'm seeing this as part of your political game now, so we could agree on it before the session and it would be much more correct for all of us. So you know very well because there have already been similar situations that I've always come up with when topics like this were at stake and I was ready to encourage the initiatives of certain political groups to do what we did today at the beginning of the session. But now, repeating to me it seems that you want to point out more yourself than the problem we're talking about. And I will now, of course, let that happen twice more, but we have to agree on that then at the HS presidency, so when we have similar initiatives to announce them to the president or the chairman and then we all act together. We're not civilized here, we really do want to show compassion and respect for the victims, but please, we now understand and that this is an institution that has its own rules and that we're equal in it. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72274	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72275	Here I just wanted to confirm my colleagues' statement, so this isn't an initiative I don't know of the Green-Left Club, this is an initiative of all MPs, and I'm sorry, okay, you said this could be announced, we accept. Next time, we'll announce some similar initiatives early so everyone can join. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72276	I'm asking you to do it so we can do it the way it does. Now my colleague Zekanovic has asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72277	The Honorable President of HS. I am looking for a break in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' club to further consult on this law, and here we must stress that I will gladly join my colleagues on this initiative, I will draw my cell phone and I am calling on them to, except to warn the victims of violence, which we really need to mark that ringing cell phone and any unborn child who has been denied the right to life, so that we have two things, to remember those who were killed in their mother's womb as well as those who have been abused in the family by some even to death. I'll be happy to join you, but here's when my cell phone rings, and I hope yours will remember we'll remember our unborn babies killed. Here's two things, I'm asking you to turn up your phones next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72278	Okay, please, we're going back to the debate now. I approve of my colleague Zekanovic's break, but we will in accordance with the article. 293.b continue to work, and I ask you to do as we have agreed, and for this we will make these and similar situations at the presidency an agreement on how to set ourselves up. Now he'll be replicating his colleague Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72279	My dear secretary. Here's another question about the ENC, of course we welcome the introduction of the ENC into the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, but I have several questions. The first question is about hardware that will be made available to the users of that ENC means to car owners who can put it in their vehicle and that hardware is actually with the equipment that is in the car working together, it is written in the law that it will be made available, the question is who will pay for it, whether it will be paid by the driver or by the owner of the vehicle or whether it will be given by the Ministry or by the owner or by the ENC to anyone available, so who pays it? The second question is, since we have several highway managers, the question is who will pay for the introduction of the ENC device at the entrance to the highway and the third question is about cleaning the house. Someone has to allocate these funds to all the owners or highway managers. What kind of house is it going to be, how are they going to do it, and who's going to pay you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72280	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72281	Well, all the questions you've asked will be elaborated in detail by the rules that will be made. So the ENC will be introduced into the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, and ultimately with the intensity to be unique for the entire EU area. The allocation of funds will also be based on the registration of vehicles passing through a particular section of the highway and on the percentage of how far it passes with the share, the highway manager in the area will get his share. Normally it will be centralized from one point. The funds for the introduction of the ENC are in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and will be obtained through what we expect from the EU through the adoption of this law. That's exactly 500 million kuna in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72282	I thank the Secretary of State, no more replicas, so you can return to your post. Secretary of State, thank you very much, we're done with the replicas. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72283	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I won't be too long. Here, I have actually received an answer to this question, and this was the amount of the state budget, i.e. the Croatian road transfer of maintenance obligations to mountain-mounted municipalities with local self-government on the Croatian road, that is 10 million kuna. Somehow here, I'd like to see if this cost is always justified because I'm afraid that today there are in many units of local self-government of a utility that simply don't have enough income, and then, by some inert, some kind of money is being allocated to them just to keep huge plants going. These municipal road companies often have hundreds of workers, and today they are exclusively direct or indirect burdens of budget or local or state budget, and this is something we should take care of. It might be good to think in some perspective that this area is fully open to the market and that units of local self-government are no longer owners or founders of local road companies that maintain roads. You also answered me for the punishment on the highway, I didn't understand how today when the ramps someone can get on the highway and don't pay the toll, so here, I might explain to everyone who's following this session, we'll soon, we won't have any more of these devices that we have today but the toll will be charged, like. in Slovenia through cameras that will record registration, is that right and then actually the one who enters the highway, which is not, there is no money in the account, he will pay the fine and that's fine. I'm glad it's in preparation for a law that will define a network of chargers for electric cars. That's a big problem, I'm calling you, I'm calling you, I'm even going to say, I'm calling for this law to be put in the process as soon as possible, there's a great interest in electric vehicles in Croatia, unfortunately today we have a huge deficit charger and here, just one note, I hope you're keeping an eye on, there's a lot of type of charger, there's those super fast, fast and extremely slow ones, so we're going right here with legislation that we're going to go to the fastest ones because this technology is really changing, and we're saving time and we're actually saving money. And maybe here's just, here's the last thing I wanted to do was ask through the line, and then you can answer later. It's not about the subject, but here, if you have a chance, answer it, and that's what's with the continued construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik? The Peleski Bridge is near the end, the Dubrovnikers are eager to wait for that part of the highway, so maybe later if you have a chance to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72284	We're going to a second debate on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72285	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an emergency procedure to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Emergency procedures make sense, we just need to think about when and what. This emergency procedure is for the simple reason that we will have the budget, I guess next week and then have to transfer certain funds to the item of Croatian roads. In order for this to be possible and for the budget as such to go, the ministry has opted for emergency procedures. I do, in principle, and when she makes sense, I don't mind an emergency procedure, but here, the Ministry has decided on three laws. 2 we had yesterday, and one we have today and it is always justified by certain situations related to the EU directive, in this case it is not. I'll discuss and highlight a few important things from this law. One of the most important things is really the possibility of introducing this European ENC, which is the way to collect toll, which is good. In doing so, you must know that this will be a very big problem because we have Germany without toll collection, we have the Netherlands without toll collection, so the question of how it will be at the level of all EU countries, but of course, every improvement, every possibility of being faster, more pro-pulsive, to make it simpler is welcome. The second topic I would like to say about is, this Law defines and emphasizes the importance of infrastructure security. What I want to shed light on, and I think it's good to say, in the Republic of Croatia this year, so from 1.1.2021 to 31 October, so a very recent figure on our roads has been killed by 259 participants. I'm sure every single one of those who died was at least in a local newspaper data that he died, and I'm not saying that you always have on the portals when you see this road has died this much, on this so much, that when you compare it to the coronary virus, there's about so many dead of the coronary virus in five days. So, let's just try to put the comparison. 259 people died on Croatian roads in the full 10 months, so many 5 days died of the crown, so let's light up and see what we're talking about and that's what I needed to say. By the way, the ministry takes care of the standards all the time to improve road safety. What on the highways, which is countyally unclassified by locals regardless of how and what I always have to admit to me is when you see that our tunnels or certain parts of the road are declared from the EU level to some of the safest, safe, safe, use-safe in signalling and it is good that this law also emphasizes itself and that we take care of it. In doing so, I am announcing an amendment that will be made by our club and will be subject to the provision of Article 3. So for a while now, we've been using romobiles or small electric vehicles as they are defined. The MUP has also gone with the amendment of the Law on Road Safety which is in me now these 30 seconds nothing will happen I will shut up and give it one more really emphasis on women who have been abused in Croatia every 15 minutes, so I want to stress it and now I will shut up. Now, mine's still going to ring, but it won't matter, now I'm going to move on with this topic that's important and important here, and that's what I've been saying about infrastructure security and infrastructure security that needs to be defined and defined in this law. And what's important is that it's important to be from the design phase over the performance phase. The next two topics I want to highlight are the use of roadland. It's always a problem and the problem isn't since yesterday. This problem is a long time ago about the way road land is used, about the way it is built there, the way certain fees are paid that are for the use of road land and what the Secretary of State has said and therefore that, regardless of how those who managed the infrastructure have not used it, they have not paid the fees now they will all pay. But this law has an interesting provision. I'm very interested in how she's going to have a good time. I didn't notice that we're in replicas of that, and I'm going to point out now. This is what you are told in Article 36(5), and we are told that we have a problem on highway A3, which is that all users and owners of accompanying service facilities built on road land on the basis of valid legal grounds by 1 January 1997 may obtain the right to use road land if, within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, a legal person who manages a public road or concessionary sets a request for the conclusion of a contract. I am interested in what will be the legal basis. So, all those who have accompanying service facilities, and to remind you of the highway from Zagreb towards the east of our country, you have those accompanying service facilities. You have motels there, you have restaurants, you have, you have different things that have remained legally unregulated because they were made on that highway even during that former state, and now this provision is being introduced here, saying that it is the basis of an appropriate legal basis or a valid legal basis, it will be interesting to see what is the relevant legal basis. I have to admit that I can't say that the effort you've decided to make isn't a good effort, but sometimes there's a way and there's a saying that the way to hell is filled with good intentions. There is certainly a reason why because what is not good for you, it is not good for these service facilities to remain out of service, it is not good that these following service facilities remain therefore in a state that is not usable, but in this way do not solve one mess with another mess. In doing so, I still have to point out, I must admit that I was also very careful when the Road Law made that provision about unclassified roads and how they would actually be legalised in a certain way because it was the problem we had when, when you wanted and when the projects were related to EU projects and then you had a problem of unclassified roads and couldn't provide certain means because these unclassified roads were mainly illegal. They were mainly illegal, and the Roads Act was introduced 7-8 years ago and a provision on how it would be dealt with. There was also a lawsuit against both the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court declared that the provision was in accordance with the Constitution, so the effort that was then made was good. What's going to happen here? How are you going to define here? What will be a valid legal basis? What should be should be a legal basis that was in force and a law that was in force when it was being built or used. I'm afraid that's going to cause a lot of trouble. And I must point out once again, so there are no secrets, one of the reasons why it went into emergency procedure is that you have also stated that the theme of funding for maintenance or financing of unclassified roads, and here you are in the explanation that it is 10 million, that this law will therefore use the costs of the winter service for unclassified roads in the area of units of local self-government that have the status of mountaineering, or the company of Croatian roads, what, and these funds will be used for parts of the costs of winter service on those, for those unclassified roads. Therefore, it is undoubtedly mountainous areas, it is certainly winter service and it is unequivocal for indivisible roads and it is certainly 10 million kunas that are now on the Croatian Roads item. So, switching to the item of the Croatian Roads you told me that for reasons I don't know any faster, more operational and everything else, okay, we'll talk about it a little bit when there's going to be a topic of budget, but I guess you did an analysis and that those funds are, which will be enough for that problem we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72286	Thank you. We are now going to the third club, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ćosic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72287	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us with the sixth amendments and additions to the Road Law which continues to implement the reform measures of the road sector and further comply with EU rules. Its ten-year application identified the need for even better regulation of a series of issues that need to be addressed better. I would point out just one, firstly, that we must comply with the provisions of Directive 2019/520 which lays down the necessary conditions for ensuring the interoperability of electronic toll collection devices. Also, cross-border toll collection in the EU is a major problem for all types of toll collection systems and provisions on cross-border exchange of information related to the implementation of toll collection procedures will be introduced in the proposed law. It is secondly that the applicable law is aligned with Directive 2019/1936, which aims to improve road safety through changes to the road safety audit process and the extension of roads outside the trans-European transport network. The highways and primary roads outside the topic of the network and all roads outside the urban areas, which are either entirely or partly built by EU funds, are therefore covered. The proposed law adds as components of the public road buildings for the transport of bicycles and the movement of pedestrians. In particular, I would like to point out that there is an obligation to adopt a strategic planning act in the field of the development of cycling routes, as well as to monitor and report on their implementation in accordance with the System Act, strategic planning of the management of the development of the Republic of Croatia. Since this law did not provide for an increase in funding for these facilities, the strategic planning act should therefore provide for sources of funding for their construction and maintenance. So we're about to have this national cyclist traffic development plan, which is certainly going to increase road safety, connect cycling and public transport and improve the network of cycling routes. It will also increase bike support that contributes to the green transition, reduce traffic congestion and, of course, also enables recreation. I must stress that cyclotourism is growing in both the world and Croatia, and sustainable transport infrastructure must follow it. Furthermore, provisions are proposed which accurately prescribe vehicles to which emergency services are released from the obligation to pay toll, which will enable road managers and to charge those who charge toll equal treatment to all users. He would point out that this law proposes abolishing the exemption.../incomprehensible/... payment of compensation for the right of construction and the right of service on the public road and equalising the conditions of business, so all entrepreneurs and utility companies will have a obligation to pay compensation for ensuring the right of construction and the right of service on the public road. This provision also excludes the application of the Law establishing property legal relations for the purpose of building infrastructure buildings in the establishment of the right of service and the right to build on a public road. More detailed regulation of the road land use institutes is introduced and it is said that all natural and legal persons using road land are obliged to pay compensation, even in cases where no contract is concluded on the basis of which the right to use road land is exercised. In addition, the applicable law is in line with the Law on the granting and fixing of fees, and the proposed amendments will make it much easier for the beneficiaries to expropriate means that investors will have early entry into the property before they are entitled to an enforcement solution, so we believe that the proposed solutions will be regulated in a much better way by the Institute of Use of Road Land than they have been so far. The bill also limits the amount of compensation for financing, maintenance of public roads which are paid from the state budget to Croatian road companies and HAC per litre of chargeable excise duties for energy in accordance with the budget rules. Here, given that part of the cost of regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter service is financed from the compensation for financing, construction, maintenance of public roads it is from this excise duty to be paid to the Croatian road company. The units of local self-government on, with the status of the mountainous area, will have a significant discharge in their budget expenditures. The funds are provided in the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for the next three-year period of 10 million kuna per year. In particular, I would refer to the problem of insufficient funding for the largest network of public roads, county and local roads, which account for 70% of the total network of public roads in the Republic of Croatia which are not covered by the current law. We have asked several times and here on the parent board to find a solution to their sustainable funding, and all in order to improve the overall quality level of maintenance of the largest network of public roads, which is expected of us, of course, by local communities and all citizens. In order to raise quality and safety on the county and local roads, a source of funding for the largest road network should be provided through future amendments to the law, as resolved for Croatian road and Croatian highway managers, thus increasing the current standard of maintenance as it currently stands at about 50% of the necessary investment. He would point out that the drivers of these roads, ZUC, which is here during its 20 years of existence, proved their results that small and rational road managers with the lowest management expenditure and the minimum number of employees per km of road. I note that the annual fee for the use of public roads was last increased in 2003. to be here in 2011 and '15. it was also reduced in the category of heavy vehicles. Furthermore, the amount of excise energy paid was initially 240 million and 10 lira per charged excise duty for the energy products that were ZUC's income in 2012 reduced to 120 million kuna, 2016 to 18, and again in 2017, not some 178 million kuna were raised. So these funds are now being allocated through the Ministry of the Sea or the Croatian Roads, now that amount is somewhere planned as much as I've heard about 100 million kunas. In conclusion, the current fire measures are certainly not enough to maintain this largest network of roads in our country. I note that the system and its funding not only affect the road sector and construction but also the entire economy for which development is a prerequisite for a developed, secure and optimally maintained road network. In the Republic of Croatia, we also care for a balanced development of all its areas, i.e. raising the level of quality of the network of public roads and achieving a higher level of security in the same areas. Therefore, we ask that this issue be considered and solved when making the new Roads Act after the adoption of these amendments and additions of course. Finally, it would point out that the adoption of the proposed law is one of the preconditions for the withdrawal of NPOO allocations, therefore the HDZ Club proposes the adoption of this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72288	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Hajdas Doncic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72289	The Honorable President of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Since 2014, if my memory is well remembered, it is actually talking about a complete interoperability at EU level that is now a user of, for example, Karlovac, you are from Karlovac, right, that if a user from Karlovac travels, let's say, to Munich or Stuttgart can actually go through a popularly named ENC at the end of the day, he gets an account, so 2014. And what does that tell us? This tells us that in fact all the system that covers, let me say some common policy, even though it is not a common policy, is actually very, very, very slow at EU level. And now you have an amendment and an addition to the law that promotes interoperability, and you have one crucial problem in Croatia, you have that in fact the "three concessionaries" have the highway... you have the binu-Istra, you have the HAC that we love. Now watch out there's a binu-Istra and HAC that's harmonised the system, so you can use one device, call it a device, pass it, drive it, get one bill, but you have a third concessionary, that's these Austrian nerds who don't really want it, actually want to maybe, but that the state pays them that. So they want the state to pay for the introduction of the system and it's about 100 million kunas, now maybe a little bit more, maybe a little less, but that's where it was. And now I hope that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs will, in fact, also be a bit concerned about something that is important, which is not the subject of this law but is still very important to you, and that protection from noise is a large part of it and other areas along the state road, along the highways is not adequately protected by membranes against noise. Now, a few sentences about the amendments and the additions to the law, so I support this incentive to develop cycling infrastructure especially on county roads that's okay, but to talk about one whole real law reform then I'd be the first one here to raise my hand to end ZUC and I'm telling you like the former mayor. I wish that in Croatia there was a system of state roads first, second and third categories financed from fuel and that it was actually a resolute ministry, i.e. Croatian Road Resorts responsible for both national roads and county roads that become other categories of national roads. And then in these notes that I read carefully, and it comes down to copies of all the ZUCs, let's be realistic, one ZUC has written all over again. So, what question is opening? The opening is the issue of co-financing of ZUC with 10 limes or with something because other than areas that have a large number of registered vehicles other zuc each year, here I know from the northwest part of Croatia may be able to make three kilometers of new roads, no more than three kilometers. They don't have any money, the fees haven't changed. So that doesn't solve it by this law which is bad. Here's what I need to think about or say to abolish the ZUC for which I'm advocating hotly because it's unnecessary or I say find some source of co-financing or funding because most of local traffic is actually going on on county local and unclassified roads and what I don't really understand here is, I don't understand, I'm going to submit an amendment to that, so I don't understand why you're actually adding to art. 39 3rd century which says that the fee, which is 0.20 at the expense of the Croatian highways and 0.80 kuna, is 80 lips and 20 lips on the account of the HAC, why they are limited to the amount secured for those purposes in the state budget, when you are asked to. 50 Budget Law says that paid and transferred, and less... aid and allowances and revenue from a specific purpose may be executed above the amounts set out in the State budget with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is unnecessary to limit them to Croatian highways and roads, and I am telling you because they are probably a total accumulated debt, so AC Rijeka-Zagreb, which is being transferred from HAC and Croatian roads approximately 5 billion euros. I wouldn't do that. I'd let go, so I'd rather, say, refinance the debt or do something else. But, unbound by this, since this law is actually the most talked about about two directives of interoperability which is actually okay, we as the SDP Club will support this Act, and now, whether you will accept an amendment or not, it is ultimately irrelevant, but for your own good I am speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72290	Now he will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, dear colleague Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72291	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President of HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For starters, here's to stress a few things that we've all heard here and with which we're all agreeable, for starters, just a few additional data or figures that will show us a little more precisely the problem with the county road administrations. I looked at some statistics. At this point, they manage 17,801km of county and local roads and finance 2,801km of former county and local roads dedicated to the cities of management. Available funds for maintenance, reconstruction and construction, these over 21,000 kilometers of county and local roads, believe it or not, averages 40 kuna per metre by one county or one local road. Anyone who's ever tried to change the circuits in their backyard or make a trail knows for sure that they can't do it for 40 kuna per meter, so it's clear to everyone here when we tell that the current system of financing county and local roads doesn't produce financial effects that would be enough to build and maintain public road networks. It is necessary, of course, to find and bring a new sustainable way of financing such roads through the Roads Act. Further, by amendment of the Article. 3 which includes buildings for the transport of bicycles and the movement of pedestrians, etc. in the roadland system. Walking and cycling trails, county road administrations would become competent to build and maintain them. This is currently governed by the Law on the municipal economy, according to which the construction and maintenance of pedestrian and cycling trails is in the jurisdiction of units of local self-government. If, as we can see here, walking and cycling trails would become part of the public road, it is certainly immediately at the start that there will be an increase in the volume of expenditure that can be expected by county road administrations, and, of course, without additional sources of financing, we will have to deploy these 40 kunas on cycling or hiking routes. The problem that is highlighted here from several aspects will be highlighted by us. We know ourselves, currently on Croatian roads, we heard here in the debate, there are several concessionaires, i.e. distributors providing toll collection services, except for one, so AC Zagreb-Macelj company. We've heard here from both a respected secretary of state and a colleague and a colleague, that that's, of course, a problem. To begin with, the problem is for the people of Krapina-Zagorje County who are not placed in an equal position towards the other inhabitants of Croatia because on a daily journey, mostly towards Zagreb, or of course in any other direction, they simply cannot use already existing ENC devices, but of course, they must pay. There's also some toll collection system that has Strabag, but it hasn't worked for a very, very, very long time. We have heard that the deadline for introducing the ENC in this area, or on that highway, will be 2 years, so let's think a little bit, when we were already on the board yesterday, discussing the fact that the highways outside the tourist season are empty, possibly if we're going to say half-empty, let's think about, when we already have these ENC systems that we can very well dispose of and which we can also bring certain discounts, we might consider that in these months, when it's important to reduce the volume of traffic on Croatian highways, we try to motivate large discounts, primarily of course, car carriers or road users, to turn them away, to motivate them to come to Croatian highways. This will, of course, give us a few benefits, ensure better passage of county or local roads, we will increase the safety of the highway, because we know that the highway is the safest form of traffic, we will reduce natural pollution, and we will also motivate discounters to, of course, take highways because they provide them with important faster transport that is an extremely important item in their car transport business. Once again, we must point out that as an opposition, we can agree with the fact that here, and here we are bringing the Roads Act, we are in an urgent process, because there is, it argues, that certain EU directives are being implemented, but when you look at the scope of the law and everything that is being adopted by these amendments, it is certainly not only about implementations, or the introduction of EU directives into Croatian legislative practice. It is clear to all of us that this is wrong and we cannot and will not and will never be in agreement with this urgent procedure because we believe that it is not just the implementation of the directive, but a lot of broader legislative changes that are being touched, of course, and some of the serious things that we mentioned yesterday on the committee and today, the respected secretary of state in the replica. Let us once again put ourselves in the position of an ordinary Croatian citizen whose road, cycling or hiking trail should pass through the garden, through the oranic, through the field, through the field, through the courtyard. It is clear to us that so far we have had the possibility of obstructing here, so here this solution of quick expropriation or the ability of investors to go into work without having a valid solution to the expropriation. We've heard from a respected secretary of state that there will also be some means that will be provided here for any subsequent court disputes. But I ask you on behalf of Croatian citizens, can he in any way regulate his right, it is his garden, his yard, his field. Yeah, we know for ourselves that sometimes people used it to pump up the price and then everyone sold it is the only one we all know is a little bit of making and crazy and waiting for the price to rise. We know that we need to speed up the execution of this kind of work, but we're seriously asking if we're actually going to transfer the problem to the citizens and say, okay Ivan, we're going through your yard, the road is going to pass through here, if you have any problems with the amount we've predicted for you, please sue us. So, by working or building anything on private property, we force private citizens, we treat them to press charges as private before courts with, of course, uncertain endings or uncertain beginnings, because people of course don't usually have any money, let alone legal or any literacy to know in any way and where to protect their rights. So, in any case, he also considered the emergency procedure completely unnecessary or we feel that we should have discussed it here in a much wider part and once again we will warn the fact, the esteemed colleague Pavić has raised some very important questions here. We heard and found out the answer that this was going to get rid of so-called. Underlaws and we speak 150 times here, so are we not here to pass laws, we are the Croatian Parliament, and not by sublaws these various technical rules will bring some things for which we should certainly have the right to make a solution here and of course discuss them. In line with everything we've said, the House Movement Representatives Club cannot support these legislative changes, and we will, of course, agree before the vote on how we're going to show ourselves about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72292	Now, a respected counterpart, Pavic, will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72293	We unfortunately have another law ahead of us, and we don't really know what we're going to vote on. Why don't we know what we're voting on? Because one major part will again be regulated by sublaws or regulations prescribed by the minister or other bodies. And we have pointed out many times here that this is a problem because it would be better or if these rules and rules were written earlier to be an integral part of the law or to know what it would say inside and how it would be defined. I'm not going to talk about privileges since a colleague before me talked about it, but I'm going to refer to the question I asked you before and ask you really to answer those questions. First of all, I don't know if this, this solution that's now being presented through the law here, is that the solution that we presented to you at the Ministry in 2015, 2016 in 2 or 3 times we were at your place and presented it as a good solution, means OCR solution reading, registration and recognition, registration as such in the context of the ENC device and mobile phone, means it's connected through registration with the owner and with the ENC device. If that's the solution, I think it's a good solution, but it would be good if we knew if it was and whether it would be comprehensive or not. You, among other things, have provided for in the law and penalties if a person passes or the owner of a vehicle passes through the highway, and there is not enough money on the ENC device. We were in our presentation suggesting that at the moment when he enters the highway he be automatically texted on his mobile phone how much money there is still on his account so that he doesn't actually come out or try to get off the highway, and he can't get out and he still has time to pay for it on his cell phone. So there's a lot, a lot of these models that have been proposed, so it would be good if we discussed it a little bit more, maybe in another circle, it would be easier for us to vote on it. Furthermore, the problem is also with the introduction of ENC devices on highways where they are not presently available, here is a concrete example of the Zagreb highway – Macelj currently does not have the ENC devices and there is an disabled payment with these devices. I don't know which other highways are currently in Croatia that don't have ENC devices but we know that we had a problem when we only had 2 shares that were to be paid with one device, and they weren't the same managers of those shares. It was specifically about the Učka tunnel and the Zagreb highway – Split and Zagreb – Rijeka. And there were already problems. That is why we have proposed to you in our presentations and our proposals to introduce cleaning house means cleaning house that will take care of how the funds are deployed, how they are deployed, but we need to know also who is carrying those costs. So cleaning house is a serious story and a good story because if we're going to have more ENC publishers, we're going to have a big problem. This should be aligned with the data, interchange of data will be a problem within Croatia as if here we are now putting it all together in the context of Europe, and you yourself have said that this should actually go to Europe level, our goal is in fact that the whole of Europe works with an ENC device or with any ENC device. If we're going in that direction, I think we need to come up with a smart idea, I think we need those rules you mentioned earlier to define well, sit down, more of us, more of the experts who can do it. I'm not saying that you don't have those experts away from it, and I respect your initiative, and I think people who do it really do their job professionally, but maybe listen to our proposals or at least look at those things we handed over to you because they were practically complete documents for project documentation, or they were even ready for close call for public procurement tenders. So I think there's a lot of that already, these documents exist and I'd ask you to use it so if there's anything else to do, something to supplement with our additional data or information here we are, we're at our disposal, and we're actually willing to help bring it in as soon as possible, to make it as high as possible. And what I have already mentioned, this third part of the part related to mobile devices where we mentioned that it would be good after reading OCR on highways that both the owner of the vehicle and the owner of the ENC device are immediately alerted to how much money there is in the account itself and that it can pay more of that money on the account if there is not enough for the relationship on which he thinks to travel. Given everything that I've put out so far, given the problems we've warned about before about these regulations that are being written afterwards, which we don't know what they're going to write about, we don't know what the competition is going to be, I don't know who's going to win this contest, we don't know what it's going to look like in the end case and I don't know what to say about how to vote for that law. That's why we're going to discuss this today during the day, and then we're going to make a decision later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72294	We came to the end of the club debate, so now we're going to have individual debates, the first is the respected colleague of Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72295	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State, I will only refer to some topics in an individual debate. The first topic is what we have stressed here that it is good to have this European ENC and that it is good to introduce it and it is good to have it in the law. But you know what would be good? It would be good to apply that first in the Republic of Croatia, for starters. Because for starters you in the area of the Republic of Croatia with the ENC you can't use and you can't be on if I'm not wrong about the roads that are in the area of Istria and the topic is this highway Zagreb – Macelj which was also a problem. So let's try to get this ENC into the Republic of Croatia first and then we'll have one system for all the highways, and then we'll see what and how with Europe. The other thing is I want to point out, and that's what I stopped at when I spoke for the club, and now I'm going to say it again and then my thought went somewhere else. We have one amendment that is on the provision of Article 3. So, in parallel with this law, we in the parliamentary procedure also have laws in the jurisdiction of the MUP relating to road safety and are defined there for the first time by electric romobiles or small electric vehicles. I have to admit that somewhere since 2018 I've been going with that bill in the parliamentary procedure, but as you know when it goes with something this one of the opposition then it never goes away and never does. And you are now changing through Article 3, Article 4. in which you say about the needs of bicycles and pedestrians. Therefore, behind pedestrians there is also a need to add small electric vehicles or romobiles because I assume that this law in the jurisdiction of the MUP, which defines the safety of road traffic, will be accepted and will be mutually incompatible with you. What I want in this individual debate is the following. It would be good if our regulations were mutually harmonised, it would be some kind of minimal hygiene we should have. So now we're going to the mountains of the law into emergency procedures and everything else and we're always justifying ourselves with one and the same, and that's going in line with EU directives. But come on, we also have a special office for legislation, let's let our regulations be mutually harmonised. Dear Secretary of State, so we will have a regulation from the authority of the Ministry of Interior that will define small electric vehicles, these are your rhombus, and you are changing here a provision where you speak for the movement of pedestrians and bicycles and you should have added rhombuses so that the regulations may be mutually harmonised because it will again be a problem. I know you and this law are sending on, going through co-ordination, being sent to other ministries, but let's at least get it together and make it all right with each other. Equally what we're stressing the whole thing, what I think about the urgency of the procedure I said on behalf of the club, but that's that when we don't know how to solve the problem, we switch the problem to the rule book. The rules then, but we now have one step further, we move on to the minister's decision. So, the minister's decision is an act, the rule will at least be published, or the ministry will be passed, so it will be published in the official paper of the Republic of Croatia, the regulation will be passed by the government, but more and more often we have laws where we don't know how to solve the problem then move the problem forward and move on to the rulebook. We, from this pay phone on several occasions, talk quite clearly and articulately about it, but of course we're talking probably to these walls, chandeliers and everything else. And one more thing is when it's the Roads Act and as soon as it's such a concrete thing, then we need to refer and see and think about the situation in our justice system. There were colleagues who said something about privileges, I must admit I was involved in issuing permits and through an environmental impact assessment for highways headed south of our country and without certain authority of those highways there would be no and we have to make that clear. You have to get into all of this together, but then you have a problem with an unsettled cadastre, an unsettled grantovnica, an unsettled all state, but you know what you have a result of it, that the state is also for the applicable permits it has issued it has not signed in, has not defined everything that needs to be defined, and then on the highway you still have which we use and thank God that we use it And you still have some private owners. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72296	The following will be spoken by respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72297	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Road I personally support and experience it as a single conclusion of a story I think will never be resolved, but I think that one kind of final management is the one. A way of billing that's going to happen in due time, and that's going to be a little different from what we have right now. Given what has been happening over the past 20 years, when the Republic of Croatia has set out to build almost 1,100km of highways in the Republic of Croatia, on several major corridors, and today we can say that these tens of billions of kunas of funds are very important. that they are some backbone of the development of our economy, and certainly have contributed to the safety of the traffic of all citizens, especially in the summer and season of all those who come to us and to the sea. I think that story is good regardless of the possible and numerous disputes and the questionings that took place during the construction that has not yet been completed. So we still have shares that aren't finished, we have corridor VC, one part that's being built now to the White Manastira will remain a few kilometers from the Hungarian border, Most Svilaj has been released into traffic and is still the obligation of another state. We have a stock to Sisak that we heard yesterday that is in priority and that needs to be resolved within the next two years and that this contribution is not only to restore the earthquake but also to help mean that this part of the Republic of Croatia is even better or that it can develop better. We also have investments on the Istrian ipsion, so the second tube of tunnels is also in progress, and I think when we talk about road construction, it's a bit of a system that comes to its end and will certainly benefit everyone. Although he used to say he was also questionable, there were those who said that we should monetize it, that we should give some foreigners, that it is to them, that they manage that the highway network is not worth it, that it cannot service its obligations. This government has shown that this system is still possible today, and highways can very well pay off their reprogrammed liabilities and have its annual cost. They say the highways are empty, I don't think they're telling the truth, they're showing these winter months that traffic has moved a little bit to the highways and that they have a purpose and that they don't go around as some say. There were also those who disputed and the Peljek Bridge in its own time, it is our reality today, it will reintegrate the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we will have a solid connection between the two territories and it is abandoned that someone's desire to work highways through Neum etc., I think we show that we can respond to any request. And this law should add or introduce some more news so that these roads can be driven more safely, more securely carry out their activities, and then charge themselves to be resolved in a new way. It is no longer what we have now means the uncontactive payment of the stories that are developing and which will have its finals in the next two or three years as we have heard from the ministry and I hope that this whole story will be circled along with these remarks that are being made here, means that we are reintegration the entire system and the Istrian part of the highway and the Zagreb-Macelj highway into a unique system. As for that part that's now freed from the highway, it's now more precise, so ambulance, police, military, GSS, meaning the Mountain Rescue Service, customs and firemen, so far it's been a bit broader. And what I'm trying to say is, the possibility of these mountainous and mountainous areas of these 10 million kunas is not insignificant, although local self-government, according to the last amendments to the Law on mountainous areas and the government's decision of these local self-government has 87 and I think that this amount could probably be greater in a more difficult winter than these 10 million we have now, but I hope that this practice that started with the valley of this government and helped those local self-governments and through this law is now formally helping that activity and I see that these local self-governments value it as well as the citizens in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72298	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Roads Act is another legislative proposal that has arrived at our assembly benches with a proposal to conduct an emergency procedure, in order to bring it in line with EU documents. Although we are at times when there are significant restrictions to travel caused by pandemics, the public will nevertheless be interested in dealing primarily with the interoperability of electronic systems, tolls, facilitating cross-border exchange of information on non-payment of tolls in the Union. It is also good that this Law calls for a better time when, with one card that is not only the ENC, it has been prefixed "European" so it will become the EENC, it will be able to travel on European highways without delay on payment ramps, but only when the charging systems will be automated and harmonised in our and other EU countries, which is clearly the intention of applying Directive 2019/520 of the EU Parliament and of the Council since 19 March 2019, for which we too must comply with our Roads Act, even with a delay. Namely, the deadline for this was no later than October 19, 2021, so we are already a month late than the obligation. It is good that the bill better, that this bill better regulates the failure of police and fire trucks, ambulances, ambulances, rescue services without toll collection, which has not been clearly established in the regulations so far. Also, since the actual regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter period represents an additional cost for the budget of units of local self-government, with the status of mountainous and mountainous areas, it is good that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law allow for the disbursement of part of the budget expenditures of these units of local self-government, however, only 10 million kuna, but the allocation of that amount from the state budget rather than strengthening the fiscal capacity of local self-government, is another confirmation of the concept of centralisation that all governments have so far continued to implement at the expense of local development. And while we're on the subject, we would point out the most problematic part of this bill that's hidden in art. 37 that says to be in art. 86 century 2 changes and reads, for the use of public roads based on the rights of service, the right to build, the right to travel or other similar rights for municipal, water, energy buildings, as well as electronic communications and related equipment, the fee of item 1. 12 of this article in accordance with Article 1 87th century 6 of this Law, which translates into that units of local and regional self-government that have so far been able to charge telecommunications corporations in the use of roads owned by these same units, will no longer be able to do so. So the counties, as well as cities and municipalities, will not be able to charge public taxes or the right way to telecommunications corporations using their roads but only a fee for service, with the government's right to determine how many services they can charge. And what it's going to look like, we just recently had a chance to see when the government on HT lobbying reduced the fee from 7 kuna to 2 kuna per metre square, and thus made it clear to whom it means to go on hand, and these are obviously not units of local and regional self-government and their citizens and citizens, but corporations. The Green-Left bloc club strongly opposes the announced change because it is clearly, directly opposed to public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72300	The next one will speak... Honored representative Arsen Bauk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72301	I'd like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Secretary of State. In my presentation when I mention the Republic of Croatia, then I mean the side of the procedure, whether it's a court, whether it's business, the one that's selling something, or the one being sued, so you don't charge me with lack of statehood. So the Republic of Croatia passed a law that, I'll be simplified, I'll speak in a simplistic manner, put public roads on the property or allowed local self-government to become the owner no matter who was registered with them. That's how two cases happened with two different sides of the Brač Channel. One on Brač, so the Republic of Croatia sold the road to a hotel company, then passed the law according to which the road will be owned by the city, the city built an elaborate, entered the court, and now the Republic of Croatia that sold the private road and received the money asking the city for an arbitration deal with a private investor because the city acted according to the law, and the court confirmed it. So it's the first absurd, they've spent, there's been one nationalization, we can say that. Socially beneficial malversion used to be said in the former system. In another case that is even more absurd, which happens in Omis in Ruskamen, the city made a decision, City Council on one road becoming a road, on which a private person filed a complaint to the Administrative Court several years after that, in October 2021. The Ministry of State Property asked the ODO in Split and the JDO in Split to be involved in the dispute, but not on the part of the city, but on the part of private persons to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. So, I repeat, a private person sued the city for declaring the road, and then the Ministry asked the State's attorney to engage in the dispute on the part of private persons to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. That's where I see only one option, or two. First, that the man who submitted this request to the Administrative Court was given an order. Because besides 200 and a few thousand civil servants, he was the only one who noticed that the property of the Republic of Croatia was compromised. Perhaps he can be given defence status, he defended the Croatian country from the city. And another possibility is that someone should at least be brought into the competent state authorities for an informed conversation as to why he missed it. That's two possibilities. In fact, if the city council has made a decision, then by law there is a control of the legality of the work of representative bodies and the supervision of the legality of acts. If the city has acted according to law, then the Republic of Croatia should be involved on the side of the city, if the city has not acted under the law, but the city council has made an illegal decision, then the decision should be put out of force to monitor the legality of the acts. There's no third option. But if the Republic of Croatia were to engage on the side of a private person against the city is so absurd that I, this, since the dispute is taking place, would not object to me going into the independence of the judiciary, will refrain from cynical and absurd comments. What's interesting is, be careful now. On that road which the Republic of Croatia claims is not a road, but rather its property, because if it were a road, it would be a city by law, one that regulates unclassified roads, a private person put a ramp on it, and the Republic of Croatia, which claims that it should be owned by it, has not responded. So, this one, I'm going to ask Minister Horvat about it, but here's to, let's describe what we're dealing with. So it is, it is good that the more roads are owned by self-government, that these highways are not registered to a privateer, but then the Republic of Croatia must also find a way to normally implement these laws... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72302	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72303	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After carrying out clubs and individual debates, where we heard, of course, good suggestions and suggestions, I will try finally once again what is being changed and adopted by law in question. The proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Law continues to implement reform measures in the road sector. The applicable law is in line with the provisions of Directive 2019/520 which lays down the necessary conditions for ensuring the interoperability of electric toll collection systems. Directive 2019/1936 aimed at improving road safety and further harmonising the provisions of the Law with Directive 210/40, which relate to intelligent and transport systems. The adoption of the Law will facilitate the cross-border exchange of data in vehicles to vehicle owners who do not pay tolls in the EU. Furthermore, it is prescribed who the toll bonds are and which all the services are exempt from paying the same. The suspension of the exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the right of construction and the right of public road service is proposed, the conditions of business are equalised and all will have the obligation to pay compensation for the right of service and the right to build on a public road. Equivalence of operations of all under the same conditions. The proposed law harmonizes the financial reports of the Croatian Roads and of the HAC, restricts the amount of compensation for the financing, maintenance and construction of public roads from the state budget. Investors will be facilitated by temporary entry into the property of the authorised property prior to the power of the authorisation solution, thus speeding up the implementation of a number of projects. Local self-government units with mountain-mounted areas will be able to reduce budget expenditure under winter conditions. Because of the above, but also because the adoption of this Act is a prerequisite for our withdrawal through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, I repeat once again that the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72304	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72305	Thank you. First of all, I would point out once again that the only reason for urgent adoption is that the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act is one of the indicators from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and its degree in force is the prerequisite for withdrawing the allocated funds. So that's the only reason why we go through one reading and a shortened procedure because we have a duty to this amendment, and it's about interoperability and security directives, we have to bring it to New Year's Eve. By the way, a whole series of questions have opened up and we are aware that next year we should go into the making of a new Law on Roads. The new Roads Act, among other things, needs to address this issue of financing from one side of the county road administrations which rightly comment on the lack of funds to maintain the network of county roads because we have received data that more than 20,000 roads are in their jurisdiction, but on the other hand the new issue is being raised by the introduction of electric vehicles this fee which is now provided for the development of a road network on the one hand for the development of Croatian roads i.e. their maintenance and construction of a network from another HAC which also receives one part of the funds, using electric vehicles that revenue will certainly fall drastically. So that's all the new law needs to look into and find solutions. Now, a few things that were in the debate touched among other things were most touched by the electronic toll collection system. The use is assumed to mean one NC toll payment device in all countries in the EU's finality. On the basis of the contract concluded by the provider of European electronic toll services with highway managers, and whoever receives that possibility will have a period of 24 months after the conclusion of the first contract to cover the entire road network in that country. It also means what we mentioned about what it manages on one side in Istria Bina Istria, with which in Zagorje administration AZM Highway Zagreb – Macelj. And within 36 months of its registration, four EU members will need to be covered. So with this absolutely certain flow, speed, data exchange, and I'm going to say how it's going to be implemented significantly. The cross-border exchange of data exists in part and now, the MUP is leading it through its EUCARIS system and traffic violations between EU countries are also being recorded. So the MUP is the competent authority and the national contact point, and this year, at the 10th month, it released it into the server through which the exchange of information on vehicles and vehicle owners and users will be carried out in order to enable the identification of the vehicle and the vehicle owner established that they did not pay the toll. This is the part of the security system so that the system can finally be implemented. Then, as regards the harmonisation of the transport safety directives, there are significant improvements and data exchange and the entire road-state assessment system, including road safety auditors, to be introduced into implementation. And in the Republic of Croatia, the directive that has existed since 2008 is now significantly improving and the main newspapers are to introduce a road assessment at the level of the entire network. Before only TM roads could have been and were covered by an audit i.e. road safety control. Today it spreads to all highways, to all front row roads. These are in principle all national roads, and where the assessment can be applied to a lower level of roads. Legally then, the question was initially only I did not exactly suffer what was the essence of the issues but in any case it concerned the use of road land and the pursuit of the accompanying activities and powers of the manager to issue an account for the calculation of compensation and in cases where no contract was concluded. That's that 1.1.97. and before that, land users were instructed by Mrs. Mrak Taritash who did this, they made the facilities and this whole period did not pay compensation. Now they are bonds of payment of compensation, and they will be led to finally obtaining a concession that is limited to 40 years because it is considered to be a period of depreciation of these facilities built in these areas. Now, I think that's fundamentally, it was still a question of this rhombus, the Law on Roads and the Safety Act are in line so that the rhombus will be able to transport in view of either built or on the bike track or on the track or on foot. These are things that are still to be aligned, but they are envisaged and possible. And the national cyclist traffic plan for the development of cycling routes will also define this who will all be the investor of building these cycling trails. So we have now given through the law opportunities and technical elements that they can exist along existing roads, which does not mean that how someone listed the county road management would be, for example. The builder, it will come from a national plan, and that will define who will ultimately be the one to finance them. Well, I think most of the questions are covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72306	Thank you, we have three replicas, please stay here. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72307	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I will return to this topic that you stated in your explanation, which is either users or owners of accompanying service facilities that were built by January 1st, on road land until January 1, 1997, which we all know is the main thing on the A3, I don't know if there are any outside the A3 highway because all of these highways are built behind it, so I'm curious how many of them there are because they're what you're saying about 40. Long ago they were amortized, but it doesn't matter they'll enter, so you'll have to make a deal with them. There are also those who are also outside the road, and have access to the highway or wire is set up so that it is possible to be accessible to it. I'm curious if you've done an analysis of how many there are and put them in some categories? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72308	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72309	Well, the highway manager has a detailed analysis of normal, and he's been trying to solve this problem for years, so we're just creating and making it easier for him to handle these cases. The exact number is hard for me to say, but I'm saying they're different and situations like you said yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72310	The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72311	My dear secretary, some things are a little clearer now, given that you've explained these things in the directive, I haven't been able to read it, and I haven't been able to do this since we got the material until Friday I haven't been able to study it, and now it's a little bit clearer. This part of the data exchange by the MUP is familiar to me earlier because I paid the penalty for speeding in Bad Kleinkirchheim many years ago, so it was clear to me that they actually delivered data on my vehicle and my registration and that way I was actually up there being accused of them with and saying with... I'm being punished for speeding. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What continues to bother me is this part of what you explained to me there when we spoke earlier, this part about ENC service providers and their obligations that must be met within N months first in Croatia, and then for 4 countries in the environment. It may not be a bad thing to explain it to others to make it clear to everyone what their obligations are, within which time they must do so and how it should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72312	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72313	Okay, that's what I've previously explained, within 24 months of the conclusion of the first contract they have to in a Member State, and in this case the Republic of Croatia is covered with an ENC device completely all highways. So we have 3 highway managers now, one is HAC, the other is Bina-istra, the third is AZM Zagreb-Macelj and within 24 months the one who has received this possibility must cover all these highways with one device, and within 36 months it extends to another 4 EU countries in the environment. It's his obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72314	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72315	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, these amendments and amendments to the law are deleted provisions exempt from payment of compensation for the right of service or the right to build a legal person owned by one or more of the other members of the JLS. For example, when building a sewer system or a drain system in the city of Vodice, a formal investor is the Vodavod and sewerage of Sibenik, the town of Vodice is co-owner of the company, but only less than 20%. What kind of relationship will there be whether to pay for the right to serve or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72316	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72317	So all road land users will be payment bonds. They'll pay road managers, i.e. those whose roads they are. In the case of local self-government, these are unclassified roads owned by JLS. ... Well, now that's the other question of the height of that fee. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So far, we've only had private companies to charge that right of service, and that price has risen. Now it is certainly possible to see whether such a high price has been justified and that JLS ultimately decide on the extent to which this price is justified not to charge on the one hand their municipal society, and on the other hand, the goal is that this road that was built there is maintained as it should not be devastated or destroyed by the use of that infrastructure. which is located in her hull. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72318	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. Now respected MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning to move to a united debate on points 2 to 8 of the debate agenda for today, are: - Proposal for a Social Care Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 218. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Household Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 219. - Proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, first reading, P.Z. No. 220. - Proposal for a Law on Educational Rehabilitation, first reading, P.Z. No. 221. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Psychological Activity, first reading, P.Z. No. 222. - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Labour, first reading, P.Z. No. 223rd and - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social and Pedagogical Activity, First Reading, P.Z. No. 224. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The esteemed representative, Glasovac and the vice president of this house, is reporting for a break if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72331	It's a good idea. The SDP advocates' club wants you to grant us a break to consult again on this whole package of laws that are actually scandalous, but it is a particularly scandalous proposal of the Household Act. Namely, the proposer again tries to push through one law that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but is also contrary to the 3 applicable laws. Namely, what's this about? The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia requested representatives in HS to ask for compliance of the existing law with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the sense that the applicable law discriminated against an entire social group in this regard I think of life partners and informal life partners living in the same-sex community in such a way that they were completely denied access to the social service of foster care. The Constitutional Court made this very clear and said that the ministry, i.e. the government, had left out, i.e. by swindling a certain social group, produced general discriminatory effects on the same-sex-oriented persons living in life and informal life partnerships. The Constitutional Court of the same year 2020 He said that the same-sex communities of family life are equally guaranteed to participate in all aspects of social life, including access to the public service of foster care, guaranteed by the Constitution and the legislative anti-discrimination framework which discusses the constitutional value of gender equality in art. 3. The Constitution or guarantee of social equality of art. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. The Constitution. After this very clear evidence of the Constitutional Court, you come to us in HS with a bill that completely ignores it. Where did you get the right to do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72332	Of course I'll grant a break according to article. 293.b. We'll continue to work so on behalf of, we have more requests for a break? Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72333	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Please pause on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS for 10 minutes. It is a set of laws in the field of social care that came to us in the first reading, and apparently at the request of the ministry a united debate was sought, which was most of the votes in this assembly and accepted. I must admit that I am surprised to the ministry that it has requested a unification of the debate for a simple reason, because it has been several topics, and I think it was important to stress and the importance of these topics and that it was necessary to separate them. So, something could have been settled, and I always agree that the laws that have a common problem agree together, but here you've actually lit yourself up to say that to myself because we're in a united debate we have to somehow know what you have both pears and apples, and here are the pig's halves, but that's what it is. What is important, it is important to stress the importance of these laws, it is important to stress that we are talking about form here, and we are not talking about content. Let's do it again, because you're formally overruling through this law, so you're creating different institutions that will deal with it won't speed up the problem. The fundamental problem that we have is that we respect even our own regulations, and you have a rule where a social worker can get to the 50 problems we have, and we know that one social worker has 200 cases to deal with, so at least we've followed the EU's personal regulations and recommendations. It's about important laws, it's not potatoes behind this, it's people, people's fates, and we've had opportunities really lately, and we're seeing what we're really emphasising and talking about. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72334	Thank you very much. Of course the break will be approved, behind every law are people, behind everyone. Now, a respected representative, Nada Murganic, will explain the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72335	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to reiterate the importance of the set of laws that we can and for this reason are in a united debate called reform law. For years, the Ministry of Social Policy has been monitoring and analysing the effectiveness of existing regulations, but also the state of play in the field of the needs of citizens and the needs of performers of all services and the exercise of public authority, so social care centres and our institutions and institutions. And for that reason, I can say the cry of all together comes a reform of social care that has long been expected. The Crown Law is certainly the Social Care Act, which is primarily aimed at discharging employees in the social care system by reducing public authority and discharging them in the direction of taking over these powers from other systems. By increasing and introducing new benefits and social services, it is aimed at reducing the risk of poverty. The new organisation leads to better quality of services and enables the social care centre to deal exclusively with professional work and users. Financial support and new fees and services are also introduced, and of course what is very often communicated to the public, especially in the media through sensationalist inscriptions and one body as a commission for civilian surveillance. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I think the law should look at it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72336	Thank you very much. Stanka's going to be approved, and does any other club want me to maybe not skip someone? No. Then we'll comply. 293.b. continue to work, and now the respected minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic will speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go. Great, before he even started talking almost everyone picked up their lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72337	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected and respected MPs and MPs. Let me also point out that the full reform of the social care system is something that we have all been waiting for together for a long time, especially for the users of the services of this system that make up the most vulnerable groups of our society. Over the past two years, we have witnessed one of the biggest health and economic crises in the last hundred years, and the government has done everything to ensure the necessary health care and continuation of the economic activities necessary for the functioning of the entire society and the necessary social services. Nevertheless, the crisis has a negative impact on social relations and leaves its consequences most often felt by the most vulnerable groups of society, our older citizens, socially endangered, poor, women and children in conflicting family relations. It is our responsibility to create better public policies for fairer society, more solid Croatia and introduce changes where they are necessary, and the social security system is certainly one of the priority areas. That is why we started with a full reform of the social care system, which represents a package of 7 laws that are in front of you today, whose common goal is a more transparent system, a more efficient and fair system of social care, which primarily focuses on users because we cannot ultimately interfere with the idea that the whole system is here and because of the users. The package includes 7 laws, the Social Care Act, amendments and additions to the Household Act and 5 laws governing the area of regulated professions in social care systems. This reform package is part of an action plan that has been intensively prepared for the past few months, and is the result of the cooperation of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy with the National Council for Social Policy Development, which is relevant, in fact, where representatives of all relevant participants of this system, also representatives of other ministries and offices, representatives of municipalities, cities, county, academic community, representatives of all 5 professional chambers, representatives of unions in social care, representatives of persons with disabilities, associations dealing with the protection and promotion of child rights, associations of fosterers and representatives of pensioners and older persons. Therefore, it is evident that the widest possible spectrum of experts from the system was involved and everyone from their perspective had the right to point out the necessary changes in the system. As far as the Social Care Act itself is concerned, the social care system itself has already highlighted one of the most complex in the Republic of Croatia. We currently have 82 social care centres that have 56 branches, special care centres, 68 homes and community services centres that also have 18 branches, 45 decentralised homes for elderly and severely ill persons, 1261 providers of different types of social services of which 406 have direct co-operation with the ministry and 2890 foster families. So today in Croatia we have more than 4340 legal and physical persons dealing with the domain of the social care system. Often previous changes to laws that sometimes changed priorities have led to fragmenting of the system, a large number of public powers of the social care centre, a lack of professional staff and professional support, unequal treatment, inadequacy of compensation in the system and high risk of poverty, especially of children and older people and persons with disabilities and regional imbalances and accessibility of services, social services. The Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy through continuous monitoring and analysis of the effects of certain provisions of the Social Care Act, knowingly the need for a full improvement, has just launched the creation of this law. It was attended by a working group of all the experts I mentioned earlier, all the representatives of the experts I mentioned earlier, and the result of the group's work was the proposal of the Social Care Act in front of you and we expect to post a promotion and quality, quality coordination and organisation of the work of the social care system through the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Affairs, the Academy of Social Care and the Family Centre. Next, organisational and structural changes, as well as the discharge and reduction of public powers, as well as the strengthening of professional work in centres for social care, the development and separation of family centres as independent institutions with the aim of carrying out activities and programmes aimed at preventive, treatment and development activities for children and young people. Then the expansion and availability of services at local community level through the development of community services centres, continued lifelong insurance through the Academy of Social Care, the improvement of the scope of adequateness and the use of rights to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion, better protection of the rights of users through civil supervision or commission mentioned earlier, and strengthening the capacity of family centres and other social service providers using, among other things, EU funds. The Croatian Institute for Social Work, for social work as a public institution, will perform tasks in central and regional building units instead of current centres for social care. The Institute as an institution shall be established to strengthen and improve professional work, standardisation and equalisation of professional behaviour, to improve measures of family legal and social protection, to monitor and evaluate measures and activities with a view to equating practices, and to monitor the impact of all interventions in the social care system that the Institute is carrying out as such. It will also carry out professionally analytical, administrative, legal and other tasks in a single and professional service that we expect will lead to a higher level of transparency of the system itself. The Academy of Social Care is established as a public institution for the purpose of organising and implementing permanent professional training of professionals in the social care system. Professional training refers to the training of trainees, initial and continuous directors of expert staff of the Centre for Special Care, the family centre of other service providers and will also be available to those private service providers as well as those of the public. The establishment of the Academy aims to achieve standardisation of compulsory and specialised training programmes, then to organise and conduct continuous professional training of professionals in the activities of social care, organisations and conduct of expert examinations in the welfare system. Furthermore, the bill also provides for the establishment of a family centre as an independent institution with the aim of separating the control and preventive treatment role of the social care centre and strengthening family services at local community level. The work of the family centre will be organised through the central service and 21 district services in the county headquarters. Strengthening the capacity of the family centre assumes the implementation of preventive programmes, individual and group counselling for different user groups or users with different problems, family mediation, advisory work with fosterers and adoptors, different parenting support programmes, psychosocial treatment to prevent violence and other structured treatments. The bill also provides for a reduction in the public authority of today's social care centres and the dispensation of jobs that are not in the best relationship with the social care system such as social surveys, making an opinion when deciding on the benefits of getting prisoners out and parole. Those tasks will be subject to a specific regulation governing the execution of a prison sentence to the jurisdiction of the testing system, while ensuring the information exchange between the systems. The cost of transport to a student with developmental difficulties is also one of the public powers coming out of the social care system itself. In addition to all the above mentioned units of local and regional self-government, they will independently collect data from their professional services, conduct field tests and assess the merits of the requirements for the exercise of the rights under their jurisdiction with the provision of data exchange through SocSkrb applications such as recommendations for kindergarten, school nutrition, living room, housing and other rights at local level. Employment compensation also ceases to be the right in the social care system, and users will receive a recognised fee until the HZZ determines whether they meet the conditions for recognition of the right under the employment regulation. Strengthening the role of the family centre through preventive advisory and treatment roles will strengthen parental competences, reduce family risks and reduce the need for intervention of the social care centre. Centres for the provision of services in the community through the development and availability of social services at local community level will take over part of the activities of the social care centre, e.g. services of psychosocial support, measures of intensive professional assistance and supervision, special obligations and the like. In the absence of an institutional service, a social manual is introduced instead of implementing the administrative procedure and adopting a solution to the exercise of the right to outside the institution service as quickly as possible to provide services for users, to reduce waiting at the start of service, to strengthen professional work and administrative redundancies for professional workers. It is also foreseen that in the next period of 2.g. Centres or institutes to relieve public powers related to nanny affairs, since this activity is not the activity of the welfare system. When we talk about cash compensation to prevent the risk of poverty and social exclusion, the most significant compensation in this system is guaranteed minimum compensation. The amount of the minimum fee guaranteed shall be determined by a percentage of the base determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the basis has not changed since 2013. And it's 800 kuna. In order to reduce the risk of poverty, it is envisaged to coordinate the guaranteed minimum remuneration with the needs of the most sensitive groups of companies by changing the equivalent scale, i.e. increasing personal factors. The entry into force of the law also provides for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision on the level of minimum compensation guaranteed in the amount of 1000 kuna. The bill increases the minimum amount of guaranteed minimum household fees from 100 to 150% of gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. Also to the homeless benefiting from the shelter service, the victims of domestic violence and the victims of trafficking in people who have been granted temporary accommodation services in crisis situations, the bill recognises 50% of the amount of minimum compensation guaranteed. If the beneficiary of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee is employed for a continuous period of at least 6 months, the right shall not cease but shall be reduced by 50% in the first 6 months of work. Also owning a personal vehicle is no longer an obstacle to the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee if the value of the vehicle does not exceed 40 bases or 20,000 kuna, respectively. The second fee is the fee for the expenses of the apartment. It is redefined in a way that connects to the heating costs fee in one fee. It is recognised that 30 % of the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee granted to a male or a household. The remuneration for the personal needs of the user or allowance is also adjusted or the amount of compensation for the personal needs of the user, the right to accommodation or organised housing according to the needs of individual user groups is increased as opposed to the annual single amount of compensation for all users in the amount of 100 kuna. An increase is planned for children of primary school age and adults of 250 kuna, and for high school children and younger adults of 350 kuna. Compensation for persons with disabilities is equal to the conditions for the recognition of the right to a personal disability related to income which contributes to preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. A circle of persons who can be granted the right to the status of carers, which encourages the stay of a child with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities in their own home and prevents their institutionalisation. Parents who are self-handling two or more children with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities are additionally increased by 400% of the basics and is a total of 6,000 kunas. The proposal of the Social Care Act also provides for a social planning obligation as a basis for a social service network. In addition to those structural changes and institutional changes and changes within the meaning of the basics, better prevention of the protection of the rights of users in the social care system is also proposed by the Commission to decide on the basis of the complaint of applicants who are not satisfied with the ministry’s response and related to the procedure or failure of the conduct of persons performing the activity of social care. The commission consists of 5 representatives of citizens who have proposed civil society organisations or have personally made public calls, having knowledge and experience in the field of protection against violence against women and violence in the family or social care. Members of the Committee shall appoint and resolve the Health and Social Policy Committee of the HS. We are pretty sure that the Commission's work will further open up the system towards citizens, because as I pointed out in the introduction, one of the reform objectives is to put focus on the users of the system. The additional resources provided for in the 2020 RH budget amount to more than 400 million kuna in 2022 and more than 708 million kuna for 2023. They are needed for increasing users, for increasing the compensation of users, but also for redesigning the social care system. As regards the Household Act, in early 2019, a new Household Act, aimed at improving the quality of care services in the foster home, independent of the type of users, and increasing the number of foster parents with a higher level of education, ensuring regional equality and accessibility of foster care, and introducing the foster care institute as an interest in unemployed foster parents, and strengthening capacity and ensuring better conditions for conducting specialised foster care. Despite the legal changes, a number of foster parents for children have recently been seen to be in decline, there are simply different changes in our society and a certain degree of deinstitutionalisation, thus not being enabled in the most qualitative way. The purpose of the household is to provide care and support to users in a stimulating and positive family environment in accordance with the individual change plan. In view of all of this, we decided at the annual level to provide more than 86 million kuna to increase the compensation for fosterers and compensations, i.e. supplies. The supplies for children have not been significantly raised since 2007, and will now increase between 20% and 42%, and for adults they increase on average 25%. The traditional foster care will increase by 60%, while foster care benefits will increase between 15% and 60% as an occupation. The total funds that will be invested in this way on an annual basis, I have already mentioned, are worth more than 86 million kuna. In addition, one of the objectives of the Household Act is to further relax the conditions for the provision of foster care because in this way we want to make it very clear that we are strengthening extra-institutional care and strengthening the process of deinstitutionalisation. As regards the Law on regulated professions in the field of social care, regulated professions in the field of social care are a social worker, psychologist, social educator, educational rehabilitationist, psychotherapist and advisory therapist, and the laws governing the professions in the field of social care that are presently in front of you also constitute the Law on Educational and Rehabilitation, the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Activity of Social Work, Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Psychological Activity and Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Socio-Pedagogical Activity. The adoption of this package of laws will comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications and with other regulations governing regulated professions and further language and no-technical arrangements. The aim is to balance the provisions in all 5 laws of all professions and simplify access to professions and prevent the introduction of unjustified, restrictive conditions in the work of regulated professions. What will be further arranged are certain technical, nomotechnical small things from the laws under which, according to which the annual work plan of chambers, the financial plan, the annual report and financial reports will be subject to stricter control by the legislators themselves, because we believe that all those who are members of the chamber have the right to clear and transparent work, insight into work and, of course, participation in the work of their own chambers, or chambers of which are members. Since we are running out of time, let me further conclude that the full reform of the social care system is actually starting with the adoption of these seven laws and we believe that this is the first step towards protecting those more than 320 thousand of the most unprotected in our society. I am sure that the debate in HS, both in the first reading and in the second reading in the future, will also contribute to even better-quality solutions that we can expect at the moment, and I am sure that after that, that the welfare system will look significantly different than it has ever looked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72338	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You stay here because like I said, almost everyone answered the line, so let's take it in a row. First, they'll be a respected representative of the Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here's a package of laws, hard to touch everything, I'll just propose a social care bill. There are elements to greet, I don't doubt good intentions, but what I'm very concerned about is that the waist itself was quite explicitly opposed, we've had opportunities to read these recently both in the media and in the consultation itself. We agree that reform of the system is necessary, but this is how it turns out to be a little bit imposed by politics. That's where I'd like to be explained. And the second thing that worries us, the more we talk about decentralisation in this country, the more the system is centralized. After 60 years of existence, the legal personality of the 82 social care center is lifted and everything goes to one institution, and we know that the social system itself is very sensitive and that it must be as close to the ground as possible to the users themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72340	Dear Minister Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72341	Thank you. As for the first part of the question, so the involvement of the profession alone in the adoption of this law, I must stress that we are in the 4th month. this year established the National Council for Social Policy Development. It is one government advisory body consisting of representatives of the academic community, representatives of all chambers in the welfare system, representatives of municipalities, cities, counties, absolutely all stakeholders who are therefore relevant to the social care system itself. The Council was adopted and adopted without a single vote against the Action Plan for the improvement of the social care system, in fact, all the outlines of what we are seeing today have already been noted or elaborated and then there has been no vote of 26 if I am not mistaken there was no vote against. So we think this is a good way to go, that this is the path the profession has decided on. And why some have partial interests after a while can't really conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72342	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72343	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The proposal for a new Social Care Act provides for the establishment of the Institute of Social Care as a public institution which will carry out the tasks of its activities in central and regional services instead of the current social care centres, among other things, was a replica of my predecessor. And yes, following a public and professional debate, it is evident that the establishment of an institution amongst professions, so within the profession, and among the social workers themselves, has caused the most controversy and among other things the fear of a kind of centralised. And so I kindly ask you once again to explain the reasons for the motions of this reorganisation and to try to avoid the fears of possible centralised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72344	Dear Minister Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72345	Thank you for asking. As for the process itself or in the public of the mentioned process of centralisation, this is not about centralisation, so the very services from the social care system will be absolutely available at all those sites of territorially distributed even more quality than today through the very district offices and services of the Institute. What will happen is the process centralised of certain processes in the office in order to have medium and long-term uniform treatment, to make it more efficient and to ensure that actions in all parts of the Republic of Croatia are unique. As far as I'm concerned, it's actually part of your question and colleague Dausa, the very legal personality itself, I'm pretty sure that the average user of social care services or future law firm is not something that's crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72346	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72347	Thank you, dear Vice President. Minister. In one I will agree with you today, which is the fact that after this reform that the HDZ will vote with its partners here in the Croatian Parliament, the welfare system will look quite different. But that doesn't mean it'll be good, it'll be far from it. Croatia is defined by the Constitution as a social state, under the Constitution we have determined that we will take care of those who are weaker, that we will create conditions for equalising them in society, that we have cohesion policy towards them, that we create equal conditions for them, that we will invest in them. Minister, you have more than 40 replicas here today, these 40 replicas inexorably reminds you of those 2400 remarks you had in the public debate. I wonder how many of those remarks have you adopted? I wonder if you heard the expert public who was on the other side and who was warning? And finally, I wonder if this is your law, former Minister Murganic's law. or former Minister Bedekovic. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72348	Thank you very much. One correction has 26 replicas not 40. Here are Minister Aladrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72349	I'm glad that at least there's something we can agree on, even though it's really rare on both yours and my part. This is the proposing law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia conducts a public consultation on which some proposals apply, and some copy-paste-not for the reasons that the hygiene of conduct does not really respect, because it would be underestimating for individual promoters to respect such a thing, and on the other hand I will agree with part of your answer, yes, indeed it will be a different system, but all of this which you have listed and what the system should have will get by this reform, and I am glad that you have recognized, regardless of a certain initial criticism of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72350	Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72351	... I'd like to say a few words about the assessment of the constitutionality of foster care laws and these amendments and the addition of the Household Act. [[Specially enabled.]] The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, in its assessment of the constitutionality of the Household Act, did not say that the law is unconstitutional, nor that the provision under which heterosexual communities can adopt unconstitutional, but what is important and added that this fact and this norm cannot be discriminated against by persons of homosexual orientation or homosexual couples in foster care. And like other constitutional courts in Europe, he said that this fact that the HS legislator passed such a law with such a norm that it actually gives to heterosexual communities that they can foster that he respects such a legal and political stance by the legislator Therefore, both this law and its amendments and amendments are not complemented [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] unconstitutional nor.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72352	Dear Minister Aladrovic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Voice. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72353	The Honorable Vice President of HS. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 The Rules of Procedure of each of us legislators swore when we came to HS in the following way “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal forefather and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.” The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is for the parliamentary representatives of the Holy Scriptures, the Constitutional Court has all that he had to say about that law on the basis of the proposal of this law has told us to act constitutionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72354	I know, but you, vice president of the Parliament, should know it's a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Here's a response from the respected Minister Aladrovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72355	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague, Glasovac, has injured Article 238, we are beinglittled by the MPs who have read the Constitutional Court's decision. If the Constitutional Court had ordered in its decision to amend the laws and provisions to which the SDP Club is called, the HDZ Club would have respected the Constitutional Court's decision and this would have been included and the government would have respected that and would have been included in the amendments and additions to this law. Since the Constitutional Court did not order colleagues to vote, this is not about disrespecting the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72356	Now let's make a deal. It was the same replica and you get a warning. I ask you to stop this nonsense that instead of replicas we have enough opportunities to replicate each other and too much by my rules of procedure because we will probably stay until late today. So please don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, all of you, please. Here, you want something to do with me, say, say, just say, if you want a warning just say... I didn't let you talk, I gave you... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Yeah, yeah, but you can't talk like that from where you're sitting. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I said it ironically, of course, because there is a Rules of Procedure that every parliamentary representative should read and act on the Rules of Procedure. Honorable voter representative, you've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72357	I was humiliated by my colleague Bačić on the basis of Article 238, because I know how to read and I saw in the Constitutional Court's decision that the Constitutional Court said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had discriminated against a certain social group that it should not have. Second, it did not suspend 3 articles or provisions of Article 3 of the Law, t 3, 11 and... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72358	Okay, on the basis of paragraph 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words. I hope you don't insist on your second. Here you go, dear representative Raukar Gamulin, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72359	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238, disdaining parliamentary deputies, you told me to say I was up and thanked for that opportunity, and then you made it impossible for me to speak, I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72360	Of course, I didn't insult you, but I said myself that I said ironicly because it's such a possibility that everyone can come out when they blow in his head and talk about whatever doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. And I advise all those who have not read the Rules of Procedure to read it, so that they may observe it. We have a reply from the respected Minister Aladrovic, finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72361	Thank you. As a matter of fact, here is a long time ago question of MP Bačić, which is related to the Constitutional Court and the definition of the Household Law, in accordance with the decision and interpretation of the Constitutional Court, but also to the current practices in practice, life partners have the opportunity to be fosterers in the Republic of Croatia, and this right is currently being consumed within the social care system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72362	The Republic has a respected representative, Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72363	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers when passing this bill did you take care of what the so-called so-called "law" means? transformation of family homes to users and the entire Republic of Croatia. The question arises as to the consequences of such a move, surely a social disaster. Whoever signs this bill will be the undertaker of social services and long-term care for the elderly. This is no way to pass a proposal like this. It has been brought to mind, without conversations, without previous analyses and evaluations as possible and within which deadlines, with which money and most important, the consequences for the user, users of long-term care. What happens when you do not consider the opinions and views of other stakeholders involved in the activity can also be seen by transforming foster parents into professional foster parents since we do not have one of those in the Republic of Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72364	I thank you for the question, so as far as family homes are concerned, what we have prescribed in the law is a transformation, their transformation in 5 years, for the next 5 years. So this is something that is important to mention, and you did not mention it so that such a form of care can become a concern or a higher standard of care for the elderly or foster family. We feel that they need to be transformed for a whole series of reasons that we have finally stated in the light of the law. I'm sure such a period of transformation is something that goes at the end of the day with a favorite and those of family home owners. However, I am also sure that in the parliamentary debate we will also diagnose a certain possibility for the same owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72365	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72366	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I think that further in these discussions, we should clarify the role of the committee to decide on the basis of the complaints. A lot of professions, social workers and everyone who works on our rights to our users experienced it as a degradation, as a mistrust in professional work. Especially what the public are also very often called when some users are dissatisfied with making a solution. And then some users talk to the media, there are sensationalist inscriptions. Social workers and other professional workers, because of their professional ethics and responsibilities, cannot bring out data in public, and they were sometimes key to making some decisions. I'm experiencing that the commission here would be an arbiter who would just be using an expert. Was that the intention?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72367	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72368	Thank you, Commissioner Murganic, for this matter. First of all, the shortest possible answer would be yes. The Commission, as such, is an expert assistance, the Commission as such has the meaning of a certain level of civil surveillance, i.e. outside the system. We simply believe that all systems are needed, so the social care system opens up for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, opens up opportunities for insight into certain cases where citizens may feel that institutions are not enough or have not adequately protected them. What is very important to note, only the Committee will be appointed by the Committee on Social Policy and Health of HS, but even more important to note, that these are experts who have experience in family and legal protection or experience in the social care system and it is very important to note that regardless of what will be such a kind of civilian surveillance, it will be based on the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72369	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Katarina Nemet. Honored representative Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72370	Thank you. Dear Minister, in this opening explanation of the law package, you said that, among other things, you were responsible for older people. However, on the big subject of organisation and financing care for older people, the new law does not provide any answers but really leaves social risk to the case and happiness. I wonder why that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72371	So as far as the Social Care Act is concerned, it defines some general operating conditions, which are family homes, which are other social services that are related to older people. What is still part of the reform of the social care system, and today is not easy as planned by the parliamentary debate, these are also three national plans. Through our national plans, we have defined exactly the specific objectives that we want to achieve in the system of protection, which are children, which are older people, which are other unprotected groups, or vulnerable groups of our society, so that we really want to improve the whole system on this side. Finally, if the government's strategic documents such as the National Recovery and Resistance Plan are also seen, the investments we plan to make in the next period are also seen in the context of the protection of older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72372	The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72373	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. According to the Attorney General's report, only 7% of our fellow citizens at risk of poverty are affected by the ULN. This amendment of the Law will allow an increase in compensation for only 200 kuna, so plastically speaking, so far the 4-member family has had the right to 1600 kuna, and now it would have had 2800 kuna. Do you really think that this is enough for the quality and dignity of the lives of our most endangered groups of societies? I also want to look back at the working group which was formed only for the purpose of fulfilling the form, and the truthfulness of these allegations and the fact that all the proposals of the expert public association were rejected, as well as the fact that they did not get an insight into the latest version of the bill, until it was published in the public debate. So that's where it's said, it's actually about that there's no, there's no, it's not about working together. In the National Plan, you list careful planning of public policy measures as a basic prerequisite for the development of social services. Where is the careful planning in all of this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72374	I thank you for asking. As regards the participation of the profession, so the profession took part in the task force, when I say the profession, I mean the representatives of chambers, centres, different associations, all those who participated in the work of the Working Party on Social Care, for laws that define regulated professions and the Household Act. I will point out once again that, before the adoption of the law in public consultation, the same laws with practically very similar provisions are presented through the Action Plan to improve the social care system for which not a single actor has voted against this Action Plan, which was adopted at the National Council for the Development of Social Policy, and if we go that way, I assume that these same people you mention or apostrophefier would say something at these meetings, or express their opposition. As for the guaranteed minimum fee, we promised to raise it by almost 100% in the term of this government, I'm sure we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72375	The next replica honours MP Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Aladrovic. So social security and social solidarity are certainly a prerequisite for achieving a healthy foundation for the development of every modern society, as well as for Croatia, and therefore I welcome that this complete reform of the social care system is based on this. Only through the Social Care Act for the following year is guaranteed an additional 400 million kuna, and for 2023, an additional 700 million kuna is provided, which, as you yourself said, will lead to a significant and significant growth of the guaranteed minimum fee through the raise of the base, so, for example, the three-member household that is receiving 1700 kuna today will receive 3 thousand kuna in the future, which is an increase of 1300 kuna and I don't think it's anything to underestimate but to commend. Since you have provided considerable resources through the NPOO through the National Reform Programme for raising social security, I ask you to inform us further, thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72377	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72378	Dear Representative Buric, I thank you for asking. So from this first part of the guaranteed minimum fee, the first increase is from 800 to 1000 kuna, but as I mentioned in the earlier response, the goal is to reach a thousand and a half kuna and thus raise the level of social security in the Republic of Croatia. It is not negligible that for 8 years we have not been in a phase of raising these fees, however, on the other hand, and the social security system must be in line between the pension system, the social benefits system, other fees that we have implemented in the meantime, so that we expect one balance between all benefits, in order of course, to have a final objective, which is to prevent the entry into risk or prevent the number of people who are present, the reduction of the number of people at risk of poverty. And as for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, more than 2 billion kunas are in the chapter of the social security system, I am sure that this will positively affect the economic opportunities, but also the systems, the social care system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72379	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72380	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Hosts who perform foster care as an occupation have the right to compensation for the work of foster parents for three children staying in that foster home. However, practice shows that some centres are simply forced in crisis situations to accommodate five or six or six children in such a foster home probably because of an emergency, due to lack of accommodation capacity or lack of foster care. How are you going to resolve the compensation for the work of such foster parents in such crisis situations that is not foreseen by law so far? So this is a question raised by foster organisations in public consultation. I asked yesterday on the board, but I didn't get an answer said they'd check themselves out so please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72381	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72382	This question, therefore, when we have emergency accommodation of children will not be arranged through this law, will not be arranged through the amendments and additions of the Household Act, what is the urgency of the Household Act is therefore to increase fees, to increase benefits to users, or compensation to fosterers, supplies to users, and to facilitate conditions and thus to popularise foster care. The moment we have a larger number of foster parents, and we are sure that this is the first step towards it, of course, with other activities that we will take in that direction, then these situations that you have described will certainly be less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72383	The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72384	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, centralization is the backbone of this bill of law, so the Social Care Act. Which is why you consider it justified, given that centralisation is precisely one of the main objections of the expert part of the public that took part in the public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72385	I thank you, obviously here we disagree on the terms, I cannot and will not agree on the concept of centralization, here we speak as a process arrangement of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour which will provide its services at the same locations where it provides. Whether to process-centralised individual processes, to do so, but we believe that this will balance the processes, even the procedures, even the conduct throughout the Republic, and thus get more quality care in the work of the social care centre itself before everyone else. In addition to all the above, they can't agree on the subject of the expert public because we, apart from working groups, have consulted with a whole series of actors and absolutely not all stand with those copy paste objections to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72386	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72387	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I welcome the reform of the welfare system. We have today a package of seven laws, but I'll look back on only one. You have already said a lot in the introduction, and this is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act. Of course I support all the improvements made by this law in question, but especially the increase in compensation and provision to fosterers. I believe that this measure will contribute to a greater number of specialized foster parents because just by separating children from the family foster care is the most acceptable accommodation and I must commend the example of good practice when it comes to our Brod-Posavina County which systematically works on it and would indeed be a good example for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72388	I thank you for the question, so as far as foster care is concerned, and as regards foster care in the area of the county where you come from, I can absolutely agree with you and, of course, I agree that this way, the system will definitely get better results for both end-users, children and all others means in the foster system, but also according to the overall system solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72389	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The respected ministers against these reform proposals, with a central proposal for the Social Care Act, rose all 5 chambers from the social care system. So, the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, the Croatian Chamber of Social Pedagogues, the Croatian Psychological Chamber, the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators and the Croatian Chamber of Psychotherapists. His vote against the public was raised by professors from the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb. They have also been joined by a number of user organisations in e-consultation. So both the profession and the academic community and the users all unanimously think that this reform is missed and that the process should be restored to its beginning. Can you please explain to the public why you have completely ignored the opinion of all interested parties in drawing up this law? Then, do you intend to gather all interested parties for a second reading and actively include them in drawing up a final proposal for these laws? Otherwise, how do you intend to implement this reform if all those who need to implement this reform do not believe it and consider it bad Even dangerous to this extremely sensitive sector. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72391	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72392	Yeah, interesting question especially when it comes from the social policy segment on your part. When we talk about it, when we talk about everyone being against it, I have already mentioned it, and once again I will point out that we have had everything, the whole action plan for improving the welfare system presented on the National Council for Social Policy Development. All these representatives you have now listed, absolutely all of them sitting on that council, are members of the council and have not raised their vote against. Have they raised their voice against certain provisions that may agree with you and finally with some of them we have already sat down and are ready to accept suggestions that are good and in the parliamentary debate and by other actors, but definitely cannot accept that the profession is against because I believe that we in the ministry have communicated much more with the profession than you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72393	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72394	Article 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. Mr. Minister said he was amazed that this was coming from my side, so I would ask you nicely, Mr. Chairman, that Mr. Secretary ask a little questions as to why he said it, and I know that he can't speak to the parliamentary deputies in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72395	You've been warned. The minister has an opinion, so we can't stop him from thinking. Next replica, respected Ban, Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72396	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. First of all, I would refer here to the Household Act, especially the problem of young people coming out of the system. I'm going to give you an example from my neighborhood, from Međimurje, in a beautiful foster family that hosts several protégés, currently living two young Roma who have left the system. They're both busy and one successful athlete. They're employees, they don't have enough funding to live on their own, so I'm curious as to how this problem can be solved because in this case, the only possible option is for these guys to go back to the Roma settlement, go back to the family from which they're taken away and all of that, through this process, is all the efforts of the foster parents who've put years of effort into their education and education, and somehow, returning to the right path, they'd fall into the water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72397	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72398	Thank you. So perhaps not enough and not directly through this Law that we now represent is the issue of getting out of foster families, that is, that period of completion, or the completion of a certain age limit. What we plan to solve, or where we do everything to solve it, is through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and through certain strategic documents, national plans that are related to this area, to enable housing, encouraging employers to employ such children who come out of foster families and thus by creating some other alternative social policies, we believe that we will solve it. This is not only a question related to the laws of the domain of the social care system, but it is a question that is also related to employees, i.e. the employment system, for the labour system in the Republic of Croatia, and here we will look for a solution to these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72399	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72400	Thank you very much. Again, the word reform has been used and used quite often. I'm curious, through this system of laws, how are you going to solve what's the basic problem? We have 600,000 people in Croatia who are one way or another covered as social care users. We have about 1,000 social workers. The EU's recommendation is that around one social worker has 50 cases. According to some of our regulations, it should be up to 65 in the Department of Children, Youth and Family and up to 130 in the Department of Adults. And what you know well, and we know that there is one social worker more than 200 cases. So we can write laws, we can do reforms from top to bottom, so horizontally, but the question is how many social workers we have and how, which reform will you improve this relationship, that a social worker really has as many cases as he can handle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72401	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72402	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. So on that point we've done something, we'll do more. I'm just going back to the Action Plan, which is also a strategic document by the Ministry that we define what we're going to do in the next period. We've been since the fourth month. employed 201 or 202 persons in welfare centres. About 140 persons in other service providers owned by the state, so we have increased that number of employees to 340 simply, that re-acceptation or sub-capacitation of certain social workers in certain environments can be solved either by increasing the number of employees or disposing of public powers. Through the laws, we relieve certain public powers of the social care system, on the other hand, we increase the number of employees, we are obliged to employ 326 more people through the action plan and we believe that the needs of the system will then be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72403	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72404	Thank you, Your Honor. Today we are discussing 7, a total of 7 laws that you call reforming the social security system. I find it extremely embarrassing and unacceptable to speak of this unitedly and that the presidents of HS, or the president and his assistants, would not have allowed this. However, the HDZ government has shown arrogance towards both this body and the parliamentary representatives, and the bigger problem is that you have personally shown arrogance to Croatian citizens. You say the proposed changes will improve the protection of 320 most unprotected. In this respect, you have not made an analysis of the existing rules and explained in any way how any right or service provided to the socially endangered is improved by the proposed amendments to the law. None of them seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72405	Well, as far as that goes, I mean, it's all summed up in the reasons of the law. I'm talking about which users are concerned and then part of your answer is in reducing the power of the social care centre, the second part of your answer is to increase services that will make up future centres or increase social services themselves, to expand social services that are defined through the law, and the third part of your answer is to increase the minimum fees guaranteed in respect of all benefits in the social care system, so that, absolutely, I can't accept this thesis. I suppose you may not have listened enough to either the introduction or seen all the laws, but the laws are very detailed on what will be done on the protection of the very 322 thousand, as stated in the introduction, Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72406	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72407	Thank you. You see, the idea of reform has always been a system of social care, not only in Croatia but also in documents on which the EU Commission has been their decentralisation and for a reason. For the reason that the services that exist in a particular area would actually meet the specific needs of that area, and you're saying that you're going to unify services where they can't be unified because problems and needs are different, so you're going in the opposite direction. You're saying legal personality doesn't matter for a welfare center. You give us an explanation like this, let's say the Social Care Centre Zabok wishes to report to the European Social Fund for the Development of Social Innovation Services in its field along with associations from its area. Who's calling, who's the applicant, who's the applicant? They have no legal personality, they cannot answer, you will disable them from withdrawing funds from the European Social Fund and from centralised tenders from Brussels because they will not have legal personality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72408	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72409	I absolutely can't agree on these issues of yours, but in the first part just to clear up that centralization. So here we are talking about improving work, equating work by establishing a Croatian Institute of Social Work that will have soy branches, and so in the city where you said it was necessary. It's centralized if we look at centralization as the notion that you've listed is exclusively part of the welfare center. Other social services homes for different customer services are decentralised. So there is one example that you may be interested in, given that they are owners, that the owner of the property where homes are older and powerless in Zagreb, HZMO has been trying to give to the city of Zagreb for 6 months to manage these homes, to transfer property, as it has done in a number of counties, in the City of Zagreb unfortunately you have been deaf to it, so I hope that we will at least solve this problem in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72410	The violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72411	Injury. 238. aside from being demeaning us because you do not answer the question very specifically who will be the applicants on behalf of the Centre for Social Welfare at the European Social Fund and on all and other programmes from the future financial perspective? In addition, you are saying that you will decentralisation or put on the local budget what costs, and what is the institutional basis for the implementation of local and social policies you will centralise. It's your decentralisation, your local units' expense, and you're doing what you're doing. which belongs to the institutions [[Intruder: Time]] To have control and power, it's your... [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72412	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72413	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, demeaning the parliamentary representatives of Mrs. Bencic, therefore, Minister Aladrovic has brought good news for raising the level of social care and security in the Republic of Croatia, and the disgrace and humiliation of Croatian citizens, and above all the inhabitants of the City of Zagreb have just been brought by the party of Ms. Benčić. Bencic, who abolished it or before the parent measures were abolished, and that's a shame, and that's something I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72414	And you used this replication injury, so you get a warning. The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72415	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I come from Sibenik-Knin County where unfortunately there are few foster families. I believe that the activities carried out by the Centre for Social Care Sibenik together with the centres in Knin and Drnis, and the aim is to promote fostering and amending the laws that are now on our table will contribute to a greater number and greater interest in foster care. When we talk about the Centre for Social Care Sibenik, it would say that right now the initial conference of the project is a process of deinstitutionalisation in the area of competence of the centre for which 2 million and 352 thousand kunas of grants were provided, of which 85% of the European Social Fund, 15% of the budget and in the next 24 months the project will be implemented in the area of the cities of Sibenik, Vodice and Skradin and 7 municipalities. Well, here's just one example from my county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72416	Thank you, MPs, for this question. Thus, in addition to the legal amendment in the section of the Household Act, it is important to stress here that it is also necessary to popularise. For this very reason, the ministry is working on a particular workshop in the field together with other interested associations dealing with this topic, and among other things, I know that it was in this area of the Sibenik-Knin County that you mention, so I believe that all these shifts will, in the legal or nomotechnical setting of laws, also cause through these projects co-financed by the European Social Fund will certainly help to popularise householding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72417	The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72418	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, as the long-standing head of the city of Zadar, we have financed a lot of things just and determined and actually worked out a certain superstandard precisely in the context of social care. What should be noted in this law, and it should be pointed out in particular that it is very good that this separation and specialization of certain centres such as family centres, such as these, such as this Department of Social Labour. So it's very important that we just level where we can even the standard, but also these special needs that special family centres have are necessary to organise and further quantify and edit properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72419	I thank you for asking. Therefore, the idea is to separate social care centres and family centres precisely from, for this reason, that family centres may provide this advisory preventive role in the development of the family itself, i.e. to give additional care to those who, of course, need such a service have the destigmatisation of all those in the treatment of the family center. We believe that in this way we strengthen the institutions, strengthen this very most important preventive and advisory segment of the social care system, and I am sure that it will receive results in some medium and long time, and I am glad that it was in the city of Zadar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72420	Next replica, respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72421	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. It's a good thing you're here today because yesterday on the two parliamentary committees we discussed this very important package of seven laws of the Committee on Children, Family and Sports and the Committee on Health and Social Policy you weren't on, but here's your explanation you left to your associates and thus you showed your interest in all the 600,000 users in the welfare system. In a country where there are as many as 800,000 pensioners living below the official poverty line, and according to Eurostat data, we are among the countries with the highest risk of social exclusion, you now have an announcement of the abolition of 7,000 accommodation capacities in family homes, which means that you are pushing still older people, persons with disabilities into further uncertainty, and what you are offering this reform is makeup and harmful centralisation. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72422	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72423	Thank you very much. So, as far as Eurostat's own indicators are concerned, we all look at them equally, I'm sure that part of the percentage of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion where certainly something we all have to work on. One way is to just raise compensation, but not just to raise fees, but to raise wages and all of those other social security elements. It is also on this trail that this raise should be more important, as we have finally mentioned in our party or government programme after the elections and is definitely an element of social security is one of the priorities of the Croatian government. What we are now doing through the law is the first step, it is the first step in raising and guaranteed minimum compensation, i.e. the basic compensation in the social care system. I am sure that this will continue to rise and compensation and supplies for fosterers or household users, is not a step that will solve all problems, but is the first step towards reducing the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72424	The next replica honours Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72425	Thank you. Dear Minister. It's obvious that you're copying the organizational forms of two systems in your portfolio, which are HZMO and HZZ. So by proposing these laws, you propose the establishment of a Croatian Institute of Social Work that would have its own regional services and outposts. I'll remind you that HZMO has also scheduled 20 district services with the fact that Krapina has not yet been established for political reasons. I also remind you that these 80 stations are planning to shut down and how much it's rumored that their work is being transferred to the post office. My question to you is, if we have a user at the centre why do you copy bad organisational forms from your portfolio, why do you ignore the county structures of HZMO, will the system of social care work, and is this reorganisation actually a transitional period for the abolition of social services in smaller environments?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72426	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72427	The simplest answer would be no, but I'm going to spread that answer a little bit more. So, as far as HZMO is concerned, he's in the establishment if I'm not wrong right now, even though we have to admit that I'm not sure if Zabok District Office or Krapina was founded, so his county structure exists. There are a whole range of institutions that have county structures, and we also think that the Croatian Institute for Social Work with the County Organization will provide a sufficient level of service provision, or not enough quality, but even more quality, for the very reason that it will equate the provision of these services to the entire Republic of Croatia and we believe that this is a quality solution and that we have also mentioned in the interpretation of the law and in public communication and in the regulations which are the basis of the law why we believe this will lead to more quality care for users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72428	Next replica, respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. Persons with disabilities are not fully satisfied with the provisions of the Social Care Act that apply to them. Please tell me, is there any possibility until the second reading of these provisions to improve their shade so that people with disabilities can still be better placed than the ones in which they are now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72430	Thank you. I am sure that the debate through the first reading will contribute to the further improvement of legal elements. What I would like to point out on the other hand is that we have adjusted certain fees relating to persons with disabilities, adjusted to more, but also that we have committed ourselves to adopting the Law on Inclusive Supplement and the Law on Personal Assistance, and I am sure that in the term of office of Government we will significantly correct the situation, especially the financial position of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72431	The next replica honours MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72432	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. A million and 600,000 citizens live in poverty or on the poverty line, and that's clear. However, it is unclear what law is in charge of determining energy poverty or the status of a threatened energy buyer. In this law in Art. 44. you are calling for the status of a threatened buyer, which is determined by the opinion of the energy sector, and the energy sector is issuing a regulation that says that you from the welfare system will point out who the threatened customer is. We are all aware of the rise in energy prices that the threatened customer is not only the one receiving the guaranteed minimum fee or who has in his household the users of a personal disability. Will you suggest changing such status or criteria for gaining status to finally define energy poverty as the one that is relevant? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72433	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72434	Thank you for asking. As regards energy poverty and its definitions, it is defined through the government's regulation, but what is even more important at the moment with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, we are just discussing a model by which we would prevent energy poverty in the way that we spend it, the means for which we acquire for this purpose to spend it on more quality projects from the domain of energy poverty. We are aware of this challenge to understand each other through, in every increase in energy prices, it is certain that this growth is the most felt by those with the lowest incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72435	The next replica is the respected representative Marina Opaček Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72436	Ministers, roles and obligations of institutions i.e. The welfare center is a protection of children's rights. But I'm asking you, what happens when that role is missing? I ask you, do you, as a ministry, carry out an adequate system of surveillance of the work of the welfare center and are you satisfied with it? Because we've often witnessed that the center's work is just scheduled. We know and read a lot of examples of exactly the course and the role of the center is lagging behind. Furthermore, I ask you how much and how you've strengthened the child's estrangement system by another parent who's just anti-natural, and it's a psychological cleavage and trauma of the child, which, unfortunately, often contributes to the work of centres that don't help solve these cases and are quite inert. And I'm not just asking you about the child and parent contact arrangements. I'm asking you about his conduct and the child protection that he certainly lacks. It is clear that the rights of the child and the rights of the other parent are directly at stake here, and the centres do very often nothing to improve the situation. Okay. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72437	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72438	Thank you for asking. If we look at the legal arrangement of this issue, that is why one of the reasons for the introduction of the Commission's institute is this. We are aware that there are certain, certain problems in the business of the centres, that there are certain inconsistencies that are happening. On the one hand, we plan to reduce this structure of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour to the lowest possible minimum. On the other hand, through the introduction of a commission that makes sense just to implement such decisions, that is to say, to revise these decisions where there is obviously a level of dissatisfaction and in this way we plan to establish exactly, or to answer the questions that you have asked at this point. We are aware by another that there are certain psychological or psychological deviations that you mentioned but we believe that this profession should give its answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72439	The next replica, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72440	Now, sir, my minister, we can make sure here as much as we want, and I wonder if I trust you or my eyes. The 2400 proposals on the round table are the Social Democrats Club organised, representatives of all chambers came, representatives of civil society came, university professors came, European experts, authorities and no one was in favour, and you say 26 were there, no one opposed. So, why do you need it, I don't know, maybe tomorrow is an alibi for why things didn't work out. So, that's it, that's it. And I want something else to distract you. Maybe no one told you that. In Article 129a. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that units of local self-government are doing the work of the local district, and in particular the care of children and social care. With a system like this, the introduction of a social service like, as a FINE not as a colleague of the Pensions Institute said, but as a FINE, we rule out a local self-government and local units actually from the entire system. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72441	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72442	So as such, the constitutionality as we believe is not at all questionable, I thank, in fact, the constitutionality of the law itself as such and the appeal to the Constitutional Court, even in some objections to public consultation, we do not actually consider it a disputed provision. Whether or not the organized roundtables on which experts have also appeared and in whose profession there are no doubt but which, on certain issues of the welfare system, have a different view, possibly. And I respect that we understand both different and different opinions, but we are absolutely standing and we are absolutely behind this way of regulating the social care system to be better and better quality for end-users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72443	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72444	Dear Ministers, here's a specific question about this part of psychology and psychotherapy. Therefore, the existing law restricts access to psychotherapy only to certain university studies of medicine, psychology, social work, educational rehabilitation, pedagogy and logos, and in this new law appears a new study called psychotherapy propetetics, in translation of the introduction into the foundations of psychotherapy which is something which is something that anyone can therefore enroll in whether or not it is on a previous study that has completed. So we can have, I don't know, architects, construction engineers who then enroll this study and are authorized psychotherapists. However, on the other hand, a graduate psychologist at the Faculty of Philosophy who finishes his studies and has parts of the college's studies in his studies, so he can't do psychotherapy. Can you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72445	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72446	Thank you for this question. As far as the law itself is concerned, all five laws that define regulated professions, which we put into these proposals, were working groups, working groups of experts that are actually from these areas, individual areas that are defined. Everything that defines the bill is assumed to go in line with the profession itself because the profession ultimately defined those laws. If there are certain disagreements, or at the end of the discussion in opinions on some of these regulated professions, certain laws of regulated professions, I believe that the debate will provide additional benefits for the law itself, and that after the debate and after the second reading, we will have a better definition if there are such phenomena in the definition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72447	Thank you, Minister. We're done with the replicas now we're going to make a transition to taking a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Would the committee's reporters like to take the word for the wheel? No one's answering. Then I open the debate, the first to hold the debate was registered by the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72449	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, currently without co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I really need to show one disdain for why we have united all these points of the agenda. I understand that it's part of this reform of the social system, but I think we're doing a little bit of a kickback on pears and apples and the Social Care Act, amending and supplementing the Household Law, then this five-law package that we have so colloktically called chamber laws, and regarding the Chamber and the operation of chambers, the employees in this system still deserve a separate debate. We may have been able to unite these chambers, but all together, we've put all kinds of things in there now and done one thing that we would say in Slavonia, the listener of it all. I must say that this reform is expected, we have long wanted it, and for a very long time we have not had a consensus in public on the need for reform. And that consensus of all stakeholders, both the users, the employees, the professional staff, and now that we have a proposal for reform, really a lot of dissent and never less consensus about what's on the table and about the proposal for reform. Now we have to ask ourselves, how did we come by this agreement? Obviously something in the proposal was triggered by this rather lively debate, which was conducted in professional circles, and which somehow went under the wide public radar, probably because of all this news about the health situation we are in, but we need to be aware that we are discussing a really important package of laws today. I once read in a book, and I kind of liked it, and I often repeat, that the humanity of society is characterized by how human we are to the most vulnerable groups in our society. And that's what we have to ask ourselves, is whether this reform is really what we're going to do, if we're going to do with the most vulnerable groups that this package of laws has to do with it. If judging by the criticisms that came mainly from the professional public, mostly in these criticisms came a lot of the profession, as far as I was able to follow, today is such a hard day, a lot of committees are sitting so we're all in a few places, I can see that in the replicas of my colleagues, they're mostly looking back at these comments that came from scientific and professional circles and that were the most active in this domain while public consultation took place. I'll kind of recapitulate it in a few items. So what's about the new model itself, for the reorganization of the social care system, is the most relevant to that centralization that is unquestioned. So by setting up one office and abolishing legal personality here, there was also a very explicit question yesterday on one of the Committees, whether the legal personality of the social care centre on the ground is abolished, and it is very clearly answered yes. And I have to kind of welcome it in one segment if it's about cutting costs. So if this will result in us through united procurement, through united bookkeeping or some other and accompanying functions achieving savings throughout the system, we will naturally commend and welcome it. But I don't know if any projections have been made whether certain savings will be achieved. On the other hand, it was just one of the main grudges of the people of the system, but also of the academic community that the abolition of legal personality actually works against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not a constitutional expert, I'm not going into that domain, but, uh, what the Ministry has offered, which is that it's basically done to balance the treatment, it's kind of not holding my water. In my opinion, if it's done to make savings, so we'll have fewer boards of directors, so we'll have less directors, and through the combined centralized procurement, accounting services, etc., some savings, that makes sense. A uniform system, we can also act in practice in other ways. Not only through the abolition of the legal personality, and of course, there is this element of the involvement of the local community, because we must not forget that the Croatian state is different. It is not the same situation in Zagreb, with me in Slavonia and Baranja, on islands, in Dalmatia Zagora, in larger cities, are not the same needs, are not the same problems, and of course this system that we are talking about today must, in accordance with what we have and what is happening on the ground, act. There was also an example of Zagreb which has 12 institutions of a single centre and as some example of that centralisation in Zagreb, which is still the capital, there are a large number of people living here, and it has proved that there are quite a number of shortcomings in this structure and of course there are doubts and fears that these very shortcomings that we currently have in Zagreb, also being translated into the state when this one is created, I would say centralised, not.../incomprehensible/... there were these statements, hypercentralised, etc., it is a centralized system that is proposed by this law. And of course, what will be the impact of local self-government units, how has it been so far? How much did they use, how active were they, and what will they do in the future? Honestly, I think that, if we look at the number of welfare centres, so now the branch office, the office, etc., nothing spectacular changes there, it remains the same, and hopefully we won't get into a situation that the involvement of local self-government units depends on whether people in the social care center and in the local self-government unit, I don't know, agree, are they good or not, it's not good when the system rests on what some individual is going to set up in that system. Now, if this merger is a good way, it's probably going to show the future, the waist says it's not, but the fact is that we often change things, and then it's really about individuals in the system that depends on how this system works, and that's not good. Is there perhaps some kind of mechanism of control or something that is needed, that perhaps you should really think about it because the fact is that in this system as it is now, we also have problems and it doesn't work the way it should. Of course, once again, I will only look back at the specific needs of citizens in local self-government units, in local communities that are different from certain parts of Croatia to others. What I'm saying, that's, I see that there are significant resources planned this year and next year, new employment, that's all good, the academy that should be here, I think that this academy is even more important for the unification and education of people in the social care system than it might be, that centralization and the abolition of legal personality. There have been many questions and talks about this and the Committee for Decision on the founding of the complaint, how will the members of the Committee be elected, who will, how will these 5 representatives of citizens be able to judge the work of the many people in the system? What if they decide that complaints have been made by citizens, and the Ministry stays with them and says no because professional people generally work in the Ministry, so somehow we are more confident that they are far more familiar with the system and can make decisions more relevant. It seems to me that that part remained unspeakable, and there, here, as far as we heard, yesterday on the board, there are a number of complaints over the year, how those five people will respond to all this together, they want to sit all the time, they won't, I don't know. That seems to me to be the most questionable part of this whole story, and I'm not sure that's the best solution. Of course, the abolition of family homes in a state that doesn't have enough homes for pensioners, we can't support it, we think that we should still go to equating business and practice. I think we're just going to create an additional problem, and it's hardly gonna be us in such a short time, and even in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we only have eight new retirement homes. Here, I come from Osijek-Baranja County, in Nasice where I live, have no private, but there is no state and probably not if our County gets this one from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, he will go to Đakovo, because Djakovo is gone for years and he needs it and still needs it, and yet it is the second largest city centre in County, it is logical to go to Đakovo and not Nasice, and we will still stay, and we will cry for years for one retirement home, so that you will probably until long reading, in accordance with the state of the field you will have to correct. And in the end, I have to, I support and welcome what is related to the amendments to the Household Law, it's nice to do something and admit the mistake and see that something spectacular hasn't moved from the dead spot, so try to change that, and here's all the praise for that part. And in the end, I'm just going to say about this package of chamber laws that's a little vague to me, and I honestly don't really get it, here's what I'm imagining is a situation for the bar, for the bar to come into such a situation with the Ministry of Administration and the judiciary. I think it would be a revolution, here's the sincerest thing, I don't know why so much skepticism towards people in chambers, why all of this and why go to it, they seem to be justifiably telling me that they're marginalized in this way, that they won't be able to decide on their own, and that part about the amendments to the chamber law, the experts working in this system, I think it's kind of made, kind of weird, here's the most honest part, and we can't support that part. I hope you will appreciate certain, certain thinking, certain suggestions because this is still going in two readings. It is a very complex topic, a topic that is important, not only for us, but also for the whole of the European Union, and it should be taken into account, I think Croatia is still a country in which a large number of our inhabitants live on the edge of poverty, there are a large number of pensioners, a large number of people living right in rural areas, where I come from, and unfortunately we cannot say that the need for these services will be reduced, I think it will have to increase there. It's good that the fees are increasing, the minister is a lot of talk about it in our presentation, unfortunately it's still not enough for some kind of life that will be dignified, at some level of dignity, we know that there are always limits to the financial nature, but I hope that in years we will still succeed in these limits and raise those fees to a level that will allow people to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72450	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, respected representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72451	Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The value of each society is estimated at the concern, according to its most vulnerable members, and it is certainly something that must be in our right place, so the changes to this entire package of laws are of great importance to Croatian society as a whole, which is evident from numerous reactions of the interested public, but from numerous comments and objections during public consultation. It is clear to all of us that the social care system, whose services benefit more than 300 thousand of our citizens, needs a thorough and comprehensive, comprehensive reform that has not been in place for years. And this is a step in the right direction, unfortunately social care has been kind of pushed into the seal all these years, and it was mostly talked about only when some serious incidents occurred that would push her back to the media's public attention. It is therefore important that the final result of this reform be an equally well-organised system of social care, which will act preventively but also react quickly in case of need and that the fees that in some cases have not been changed for years are finally adequate to today's conditions and to today's cost of life. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government has ensured a significant increase in the budget for the implementation of this package of laws, which will ensure an increase in compensation for users. It is also of great importance that a good part of these funds be spent on the employment of 326 new experts over the next 3 years, which would help 30% of the more employees in the social care system, which apparently cry out. And so far, which has been chronically sub-suppressed, so experts in, have so far been extremely overloaded and thus the quality of services provided by end-users has been significantly reduced. What I think is not well defined and what I would like to look at in my review is an insufficiently well-defined draft law relating to incomparability in the context of what professional chambers as independent organisations of regulated professionals should represent. This bill goes against what the Republic of Croatia has taken over in the 1990s, and this is the mid-European model of professional, independent chambers for regulated professions, which defines that professional chambers are independent chambers that are assigned to them by public authority, and this proposed legal solution de facto determines the independence of chambers. Because the proposed tools allow the Resorient Ministry that if it wants to abuse the provisions of the Law, it can de facto block the work of a chamber indefinitely, and all together, it can lead to chambers reading such possibilities in the law, being de facto subordinated to the Ministry, and can also be viewed as eliminating the independence of the chambers or docking chambers as such. Because if the Ministry should give consent to any general act of the chamber and any financial decision, then we cannot talk about any independence of the chamber in terms of any policy of the chamber and of the financial business of the chambers. On the other hand, if financial consent is to be sought again each year, then no multiannual plans for the work of chambers having a certain financial weight can be adopted because it is not known what is to be taken next year in terms of the agreement and disagreement of the resolution ministry. In conclusion, what is not disputed and what is acceptable are the consent of the supervisory and prior consent to acts concerning public authorities of chambers assigned by the State. This is not disputed and it is okay because the state confers powers on the chamber and then the chamber leads them and that state can give consent to all those regulations and acts concerning that. The need to agree on all general chamber acts which have nothing to do with public authority and, in particular, with financial decisions, such as the financial report and the financial plans and the work plans, is disputed. The Chamber Assembly as the democratically elected highest body of the chamber makes a decision that I think is best for its membership because, secondly, it turns out that the Ministry is more caring and better protected by the interests of members than the chamber itself, which is by itself a nonsens, especially in the case of these two chambers that work, they make decisions based on all members of the Assembly, and these are all members of the actually professional chambers. There have definitely been problems and doubtful behaviours of certain chambers, especially, here, and in health care, where I come from, as well as abuses of the chamber system that the state could not influence or prevent because of its insufficient powers, but this is not a good solution and can lead to political surveillance and disrupt the independence of chambers. The state should create legal opportunities for the chambers, which are found in a legal offence after inspection, to be punished, but not in this way, and I hope that this will also be taken into account in the second reading of the law. Here it is, so short from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72452	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72453	So we have much more important laws to discuss here today, and it's really hard to sum up all of these laws that we have here in a debate. In fact, I find it kind of embarrassing. I don't know if it's really telling us about the way we're even treating the welfare and that we haven't learned anything from the tragic cases that we've all witnessed through the media in the past year. Then it was vital for all of us to improve this system in practice again, except that it remains as one smaller addition to the overloaded ministry and when we talk about laws that should define the status of those who use social care services, as well as fosterers and all others, we will discuss here unitedly. Not only do we mix pears, apples and plums, but we kind of humiliate each of these systems that are separately overloaded and too important to lead them all here under the same denominator, especially given the specificities of the problems they all deal with. Unfortunately, I have no choice but to try to say something about at least a part of them to point to problems and do so in this united debate. In the first row, I will look back in this regard to the Law on Social Welfare. This law may now and excessively speak to me about this legislative proposal, since the very definitions that this law offers are discriminatory in a way that is simply amazing that anyone has decided to put such a thing into a serious legal proposal, which is why a legitimate question is being asked who writes the laws at all. Because if we can, for example, have a definition of No. 12, of persons completely incompetent to work, completely incapable of work, as a person over 65, how can we further discuss any, let alone the democratic treatment of persons of older age in the Republic? What does it mean that someone is incapacitated and over 65 years old? Based on what? Not only is our Labour Act in complete contrast with it, it recognizes people over 65 years of age as those who are highly labourable, but we can learn a lot from this and learn about how we generally treat older people and whether we are able to protect their rights. Many scientific papers are written just about older people who are, of course, still functional, now, because of this very discriminatory provision, they are kept functional and in this sense it is a question of whether the age of pensions should be identified with the notion of an elderly person and when we talk about it, since the UN Convention on the Rights of Elderly Persons should also be followed by an approach which has applied the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because there is a turning point in taking advantage of the medical approach of persons with disabilities in access to respect for their human rights. Since the Republic of Croatia, as well as the European Union, should support and actively contribute to the development of the UN Convention on the Rights of Older Persons, because the benefits that this Convention can bring us are really important in this regard we see and the importance to which we define here those who are older persons as completely incapable of working that this issue is of particular importance to us. The second question, again, is difficult to discuss at all the content and this extremely important Social Care Act when, perhaps so far, it is from my perspective, someone who has been working for a year in the Assembly, most messed up already in the introductory definitions, but messed with by one far-reaching social consequences, because it is not one of the things that is wrong about the Law on ATMs, and the other is when it is wrong about the law that tells us something about the way we treat a certain social group and this sensitive social group in this case, we discriminate on the elderly, over 65 years old and completely arbitral in accordance with our other legal provisions we declare them incompetent to work. The second problem, again definitions, in Article 15 of point 11, this was point 12., are persons with disabilities defined as persons who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage, which in collaboration with different obstacles can prevent their full and effective participation in society, on an equal basis with persons with disabilities. Where did that definition come from? Like me, is someone creative, so he invents a definition and then puts it into certain laws. Is this definition in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? What about the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation? Then we have a problem with Article 10 which deals with the principle of participation in decision-making, or consent. Let's see what he's looking for. Thus, it refers to the user in the welfare system who has the right to participate in the assessment of the situation, needs and decision-making in the use of services, and to obtain timely information and support for decision-making. In order to achieve compensation and services in the welfare system, it is necessary to agree the users, i.e. their legal representative and so on, and I will put particular emphasis, not to read all of them, on persons deprived of their business capacity who have the right to participate and to give an opinion in the procedures in which they decide on their rights and interests in accordance with their capabilities. Who will decide whether a person is able to decide, or to give an opinion? Are we even aware of how many people with mental disorders remain in psychiatric institutions, not because they should be there, but because there is no adequate social care for them. Is this the case with this law? What about home and center control anyway? We have situations where people are bound to bed, psycho-geriatry doesn't have enough carers and people who would follow them regularly. How are we gonna handle this? When we talk about the Law on Psychotherapy and various divisions, for example, on those, conditionally speaking, medically and nonmedically, the question arises whether users have the right to know what basis the study of persons has completed before further education. On the other hand, it states that these persons cannot commit any crime because they are automatically disqualified if they have received a judicial verdict. But the question raised here, when we talk about laws, is that so for all regulated professions? Or we're doing an exception here. So I'm going to sum up, when we talk about the Social Care Act here, it's a proposal that is serious and with far-reaching social consequences messed up already in the introductory defining part, that before such a thing changes in a way that, apart from responding to reality, it's not possible to treat people with disabilities and persons with mental disorders and an elderly person, we can't go to the scale, or the content of the law itself. There's something else I'd like to say about the Household Act. Of course, this is about increasing foster benefits. Well, in some ways, it may seem unnecessary to talk about other problems, for we can always answer that additional funds are provided and that may be necessary for everyone to shut their mouths. But I think that here it does not respond to the key problems that fosterers face, and therefore this Law, which rarely comes to the agenda, does not do what should be his primary goal, which is to improve the status of foster parents. When I say foster status, it's not just financial resources in terms of material rights, it's their overall status that has more dimensions than one of the key ones, which the foster parents have been warning about for years, completely bypassed here. One of them is that of maternity leave. I'm sure you've all heard about it many times already. So, what's going on? From the perspective of a foster parent. A lady wrote to me about how she fostered a baby from the maternity home on Monday found out about the situation, and on the same Saturday the child came home. The child had, of course, additional difficulties, which do not have biological parents, plus, of course, the Centre, the Court and all other things, and the person who adopted him had no right to maternity leave. They partially solved this problem, and here birth leave is treated exclusively in a way that regulates the part relating to the right to compensation, but it is not recognised the situation in which these persons are in even greater difficulty by some standard parents, because they have a specific child who often needs an additional adjustment, from a child who has grown up within a standard family environment. Of course, for the foster parents who came to me with this problem, it's not just about money. So it's also a matter of labour rights because these people are afraid of losing their jobs because many and employers are threatening in such a situation because no one understands that you need a maternity leave if you have fostered a child. So I'm talking about those who have fostered a child, and they're still doing other things. It is important that people who are fostering a child have the right to leave, e.g. within a period of 6 months from work and get full pay and adapt to such a difficult situation. They get, colleagues and colleagues, abused children, insecure children, and the only thing they can, of course, give them is patience and education with some kind of warmth at home, and that can't be done when you're being held back by this type of legal provisions. Understandance is, of course, much less when it comes to foster families, especially from employers, than when it comes to classical families, which is why the law needs to support them even more strongly, so not only may it enable them to give them this classic leave but also go a step beyond that because their situation in the vast majority of cases is far more difficult. What the foster parents also warn about, and what these legislative changes do not do again is change the provisions relating to the necessary signature of biological parents, who still have the right to make a whole series of decisions that greatly affect the life of a child. So, from kindergarten to field trip to, of course, surgery. If someone is a foster parent and fosters a child who comes from a troubled family, can he at all afford to pursue signatures for the most basic things and thus that child who is in a particularly vulnerable situation, within his new home, as a consequence has to be denied for all the common things that belong to every other child in a classical home. We will not go into those more drastic examples that we could also read, that some foster parents were even threatened by the withdrawal of the license because the child refused to lead an abusive parent. Indeed, there are all kinds of stories and serious problems that foster parents face in practice. It's hard to discuss such an important topic in all this time. I can't believe we decided and I'm going to stop by, agree to talk about such complex laws in a united debate where our time symbolically extended by 5 minutes. And what am I supposed to say here now? 5 sentences about foster parents, 5 sentences about the welfare system, by the way, I'm reading about the psychotherapy bill and so on. Is this a serious parliamentary debate? Is that why we met here today? With this treatment, except that we're going to cause a mess with all those who have this important law and who are listening to what we're talking about right now, we're just going to extend the current dominant paradigm, which is that the welfare system is just a key chain of one and another overworked ministry. So I'm afraid that every debate on these laws, and even here's my opening warning that the opening definitions are so discriminatory that the content falls into another plan before we think about them in particular, may become larpurlar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72454	The debate will follow on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, which will be shared by respected representatives Oreskovic and Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72455	My colleagues and colleagues. First Article. The Republic of Croatia defines us as a democratic and social state. How democratic we are and how social we are can be seen, for example, by this united debate on as much as 7 laws. The democratic and social state is obviously just in shape, and the real content and essence of this government doesn't care. A united debate means that we will discuss all 7 laws 7 times less than we would argue that each law was a separate item of the agenda and this shows the true nature and true character of the HDZ government. The message that Andrej Plenkovic sends on one side, the HS he chooses by the Constitution, and should also be monitored by him that he can do whatever he wants, which is on the other hand, and the message he sends to all Croatian citizens. So what democracy we are when the legislative authority of HS and its role are reduced to a mere voting machine in which the laws refer to the debate is only a matter of order, in which the bold and very pretentious HDZ most of this package of laws is called reform. So we're discussing reforming the social security system there that any important institute, as my predecessor said, can only be scratched. Cuff it. There we also eyed our citizens in those situations where they are threatened, vulnerable, where they need someone to show that they are truly cared for. Social security is one of the essential constitutional features that our country should have. However, this authority, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, believes that such a topic and rights resulting from it do not deserve a surplus, reasoned, comprehensive debate that would be structured by each of the elements that is changing through this package of laws. We are reduced to one speedy debate as on a tape that is carried out only by order and form doing, but nothing more than that and the consequence is the attitude you see, more or less from any political move you take. You HDZs, that famous statement, that's me, that's the quality of the way Andrej Plenkovic sees himself, and this reorganisation of the social security system will also be implemented as he intended for citizens to whom the system is most concerned, so they are in socially unfavourable circumstances and living conditions when they need protection, care and assistance in the situation are that they can be even grateful that they are given something by the state. So they're like farmers. The authorities obviously don't matter and there isn't much to argue about. So these are not Croatian Parliament policies, these are not Croatian state policies, these are the charity that Andrej Plenkovic shares from that envelope that is mentioned in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, so through all this together in all the laws between the lines it writes and what you would all harm in the first place. And before we enter into this to say two, three words about content itself, namely what new institutions, which new bodies and the division of their competences and this package of laws are passed, and more than that there will be no need to constantly stress and keep repeating as many times as it takes, that all the policies of HDZ, which the HDZ has been carrying out for 30 years all the corruption with which they have soaked the entire system of porters and cleaners, and until the prime minister himself created a state of social cases, a state of impoverished and disgruntled citizens and no amendments to the laws in the field of social care will change that fact. That fact can only change the shift of power and the termination of practice as the corrupt HDZ government has devised beyond and beyond all other laws. If a specific and recognizable character is to be defined, which is constantly implemented by HDZ, it would be an inequality and a system in which the same rule is applied differently and interpreted differently depending on who it relates – ours and yours, us and them. And that's how it's going to be through all the seven laws that are in the package today for discussion. The state is strong to the extent that it is able to ensure the proper protection of the weak. But a state that generates weakness, a state that generates weak and poor citizens has something rotten in its governing structure. And looking at the policy of long-term HDZ officials, it can be seen that from mandate to mandate, they are getting richer. It's enough for some to get their first chance, so they'll be rich overnight. During that time, Croatia is reduced to the start of the EU by all parameters in which one quarter of the citizens live at risk of poverty. And the vast majority of those who are not in that category cannot afford many things that should be part of some decent civic standard. These are daily newspapers, strudels or a better piece of meat at least on weekends, in cinema and theatres, concerts can be rarely attended. And let's go back to the question of what would be the ultimate purpose of this united debate of even seven laws in the welfare system. First of all, to show how demoted the role of the Croatian Parliament is, and how much power Andrej Plenkovic's authority is in relation to the Croatian Parliament, and to carry out with as little public discussion of HDZ's idea and vision of the new institutional structure as this Government has purposed. And the second reason for one pragmatic nature, which is that these seven laws only alter definitions of who gives whom and how much. The very quality of any rights, any of the users of this law does not essentially change. So, instead of the social care centre, we will now have the Department of Social Care under which all existing centres will fall, and some new bodies will be established, above all, the Academy of Social Care, which I believe has been able to carry out its tasks both within the structure and under the hat of one of the existing bodies and various family centres, both national and regional. Also something that could have been carried out under a single cap. In this regard, in the relationship between these bodies and their relationship with the ministry, a confusion has been made that the system will deal with itself more and less with those it should deal with. The law itself, all seven laws are filled with nomotechnical errors, unequal. Apparently, they're written superficially and in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72456	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister and Secretary of State. Before a few words about the Law on Social Welfare, we also have that set of laws that change, so we have the law that we passed in 2018, and now it's decided again to be a new law. Let's say I'm curious why you've decided that, because there are some good customs where laws go into change and complements and then when a certain percentage goes to a new law, so it's interesting that you've made up your mind. But well, what's there is, it'll be able to be asked in an individual debate, so maybe it gets a more concrete answer. But what I'm trying to say about the Social Services Act, unfortunately that law reminds me of that old, outspoken saying that when you don't want to solve something, then you start a commission. Here, however, one commission is set up in this law, one to decide on the basis of complaints. I'm not going to name that whole name all the way. This commission is very interesting to establish it, interesting articles that speak about it, established by the Parliament, the way it works. I am going to have an individual debate about this particular commission, because I am interested in the decisions of this committee, the relationship between decisions and between the ministry, the subject of further implementation against those decisions. Or he says if three times someone from the center had, there was a complaint against him that he might have the commission to ask the minister, or head of action. It'll be interesting to see how it's imagined, but about that, by that. What I'm saying here is that this law always likes to talk about laws in shape and content. I really have to say that I don't see the point of us going some new form now, so we're setting up a Croatian Institute for Social Work, a family center, a social care academy. Or to be perfectly precise, so it doesn't matter. I don't think it would be that bad or useless, and we wouldn't look so much at the law dealing with the real and key problems of the welfare system. This is how it looks to me like it's being translated from hollow to empty, changing is being expressed, transferring powers from one to another, but it doesn't make any sense. For years, the government has promised social care reform. This law is not reform, it is not even close, and the minister for all that time whenever a failure or tragedy occurs, whenever it comes to tragedy, of course we have a full heart of it all, it is said that responsibility is on all of us. Well, Mr. Minister, that's not exactly what it is. Now you've been in power long enough in continuity, that responsibility is solely on you, so it should be taken over, and not always when something is good, then it's due to a wise government policy headed by a sinless prime minister, and when it's bad, we're all responsible. Not to mention, almost every time there's a scandal or a case in social care, there's a local HDZ man involved in the office. Serious reform is not enough cosmetics on one or even more laws. We need to change the basic idea when it comes to protecting children. For example, a change in the basic idea would be that the biological family cannot always take precedence over the rights of the child in relation to the right to parenthood. We need to simplify a series of procedures, as well as adoption procedures. And so several essential procedures. We have a law on 250 articles, where somehow we talk all the time about being an important man to us, but here it turns out that we care about academias, departments, commissions and all that without any content. I mention it all the time, and I'm going to mention it, and that's what's important for people who do social care. So we at the Croatian Social Care Centres have about 1,000 employees of social workers, and this way, the various measures cover 600,000 users. Just those two numbers and smart enough. The consensus at the level of global social care experts is that it would be ideal for one social worker to have no more than 15 cases. It's a mental noun for us. The EU's recommendation is not to be 50. And how is that in Croatia? The social worker has up to 200 cases at once, although we said in our regulations that it should be no more than 65 in that department for children, young people and families, and 130 in the adult department. So we see for ourselves that it's unsustainable. Share that one social worker has 200 cases and the number of working days and we get to everything, we get it. And social care experts are constantly warning us that too much time we do paperwork, and little time for people and that's what results from this law and I can't call it reform, and that's to imagine when someone has to deal with it, and there's not even a separate room to talk to individuals and families. So, as far as I'm concerned, this Social Care Act is a disappointment, but a little bit about the Household and Constitutional Court Act. The country's constitutional court has made a decision saying that abandoning the same-sex partners from the right to foster care is unconstitutional. It is said that the Constitutional Court did not order an amendment to the law and did not order it, but that decisions must respect it, although the direct court said that the provision of the law is such that it produces anti-constitutional effects. And more say from the ministry that in reality the court's decision is respected. Find out what it's called. For years now, we have struggled in public and in courts, and the Government, when it has the trumpets of the Constitutional Court, does not discuss them even when they are misrepresented, and when they do not respond, or when they do not have the courage, they do not want to. I must admit, at the very least, I would be embarrassed if I were a resolute minister with such a system of fostering and adoption that has failed to meet even the basic purpose, and at the same time one whole group of them has been excluded from the job for primitive world-wide reasons, despite the Constitutional Court's decisions and despite the fact that you have been asked by the Ministers for Children's Attorney-General for Gender Equality and a whole series of citizens and associations. So listen to the D.A., listen to the citizens, listen to the associations. Because it would be me if I were you, Mr. Secretary, to be ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72457	Next debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Honored Representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72458	... Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] At the very beginning, I would like to say that I support the Proposal for a Law on Social Welfare, and after four years of delaying its adoption. I also particularly welcome the amendment of the provisions relating to ownership, or even the use of a private vehicle owned by family members using guaranteed minimum compensation. I am also pleased that the law will now make it clear that the property or management of a lower value of up to 20 000 kuna will no longer be an obstacle, as so far to the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. You will also agree with me that there has been a lot of discrimination against people who live in traffic isolated places, which has been an obstacle to their potential employment and, of course, inclusion in society. On several occasions, such a provision of the law or interpretation of it has led to an unenviable position of many family members if one of the household members has been caught using a vehicle for life’s purposes, even in those cases where the vehicle was not owned by them. The worst part is that, in these cases, these families had to re-launch several months of re-approval of the right to apply guaranteed minimum compensation, although the use of the vehicle in these cases did not significantly alter their social status. I refer exclusively here to the family in traffic isolated places using private vehicles for basic living needs, and I stress that in most cases it is vehicles older than 20 years and almost no market value. However, if you live in a Roma village five or more miles from the city centre without locally available public services, you will agree that they are no longer luxury but of course a need. Of course, earlier these changes were reactively introduced into the law because of individual cases where users guaranteed minimum fees were simultaneously used by luxury personal vehicles and thus manipulated by transferring ownership to third parties. Such practice has affected individuals that, unfortunately, in the existing law, we have this discriminatory provision that members of the household, families using guaranteed minimum compensation cannot have ownership of any vehicle regardless of its value. But I can't even manage someone else's or borrowed vehicle, which has led many to an uninvited position. We're in a situation where the Social Care Act de facto cancels someone's driver's license. I'm glad it belongs and now we're changing the limit of 20,000 kuna for the value of the vehicle, I believe it solves the problem that I mentioned earlier. I also fully agree that a private vehicle is generally a luxury due to a relatively high price and its maintenance. And when it comes to a cheap vehicle, but certainly, we had to find a model, so that those excluded are not further excluded from society. On every visit to the Roma village, you can see even women at a high level of pregnancy cycling to make purchases or similar or walking persons and ten kilometers to get to the city itself. I believe and hope that these amendments to the law will make it easier for them to do their daily activities and that, with solidarity, those who can afford to afford it and the cheapest vehicles, it will all result in greater involvement and, in particular, employment. Furthermore, the law also adopts a number of other amendments that I welcome, especially those concerning the increase of minimum household benefits to 150% of gross minimum wage amounts. As for all of us, as well as statistics from the State Statistics Institute, which states that the risk of poverty in 2019 in Croatia was 18.3% and 23.3% of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Therefore, almost every fifth person in the Republic of Croatia particularly reduces the age of life and the person with disabilities. As a particularly good change, I welcome and amend that if the beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum wage is employed for an uninterrupted period of at least 6 months, the right of three months of work is subsequently reduced by 50%, which will also act as a motivator for entering the labour market, given that in a situation in which labour is lacking it is defeated that the guaranteed minimum remuneration is also used by a working person, and this must be prevented and demoted by such changes in all possible ways. Deinstitutionalisation of persons with developmental difficulties and disabled persons is a problem that I am also familiar with, so I welcome the change towards which the right to care status is extended to a greater circle of persons with the aim of encouraging the rest of the child or person in the family circle in my own home and thus preventing their institutionalisation which is in practice further dehumanisation, life in their own family and in the foster family is certainly a better life than in institutions, however quality services there are provided. In addition to the Social Welfare Act, we must highlight the fact that through the Croatian Employment Service, we have continued to continue to hire members of the Roma national minority in public works that represent many the primary source of income and temporarily provide opportunities for work with the contribution of the entire community. It puts itself, as most people do, that all working-age individuals in the system need to be involved in work, which is also a way to motivate them to engage in the labour market on better paid jobs. You are all familiar with the specificities of the situation of the Roma community, which unfortunately is multiplely discriminated not only on the basis of social status, gender or disability but also on the very belonging of the Roma community, and all of this combined with extremely poor living conditions in certain Roma settlements is few of us and that we are thinking about additional models to help the Roma community. I am taking this opportunity to thank you for the additional efforts and engagement of the Director at the Ministry of Administration, Ms. Marija Varelić and State Secretary Maria Pleikosa, who are also involved in the work of the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Plan for Roma Inclusion 2021-2027 at the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. In this inter-resor body which is dominantly involved in education and co-operation with local self-government units on public infrastructure projects, we have observed that we have increased cases and requests for assistance for individuals in exceptional health cases and in cases of fires and weather accidents, but also various social issues we have not answered so far. As a result, we have provided not only additional resources for the Commission's work but also a separate item in the ministry's budget for increased one-off fees for individuals and families who are not able to handle the emergency existential situation through other models. I would like to address more and more other issues in the future, and I must say that the assessment of the majority is, however, that we have not only improved the living and infrastructure conditions of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia but also recorded the growing number of workers employed within the community, and that they are getting along very quickly with credit borrowing and living better. What I want to point out and what we are doing through the commission is that we are creating an inter-resorial approach to problems, because the issue of the Roma community is not only a social problem, and yet, this attitude has prevailed. More recently, the additional focus has been put on the Ministry of the Interior, but as long as it is approached with accumulated problems from a purely social and security aspect we have not done enough. I am glad that we are increasingly aware of this, even in the operational programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, through which other resolutions take part in the responsibility for the accumulated problems. In addition, a reliable partner is the Roma community itself, i.e. Roma representatives at the level of the municipality, cities and counties, by the primary route of the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Romania Kali Sara, who in some way serves as a communication channel between the community and the public administration body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72459	Next is a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkic Martina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72460	I thank the esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, respected colleagues. At the proposal of this Social Care Act, as we had the opportunity to hear, there were as many as 1809 comments on public consultation. Of which only 191 were accepted, 1036 even unaccepted, 116 partially accepted and 474 comments received. What does that actually show? As the minister respects the profession and orders the entire public and the profession, I know what's best for you. Very brave of the minister, and then we expect such boldness in taking responsibility when we have the direct consequences of the collapse of the system. At the very beginning of the report on public consultation, it is true that we have to repeat this as many times as possible, that the work group did not participate in the process of adopting this draft. What was said very clearly by the members of the task force made it clear in media statements and on a recent round table held by the attorney general. The draft is against the Faculty of Law, the student centre of social work, the Chamber of Social Workers and all the united profession, because the organisation as announced by the abolition of the Centre for Social Care and the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Work with 21 branches and outposts will not contribute any better services to users. Minister, you're talking about a high consensus when this law is passed, and no one is up to your law or your profession or your science. You have a statement from the Faculty of Law which clearly and sharply opposes the proposal. With you are the sole employees of the ministry and some directors, perhaps all your principals who have been chosen in a way that you have given consent to the appointment. Users must be the focus of this reform, but unfortunately they are not, but the ministry is dealing with the makeup of a model system that certainly cannot be a model of organising a social care system, which means according to the model of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, because by centralizing the system, you are sure to distance the social care system from the local community. Here's an example, the Social Care Centro is run by the administrative council. In addition to the director, it means three representatives, the administrative council consists of three representatives of the ministry, one representative of workers and one representative of regional or regional self-government. So, all 5 people in the Governing Council are from the local community, who together with the director create social care in their field, a work programme for next year is being adopted. The Director shall submit reports every three months to that same board of directors, a financial plan shall be adopted in view of the needs of the users of the equipment for work, the training of the staff, the specific needs. It's all about the very active board of directors and is really an active participant at least that's how it was when I was headmistress in my term and I had really co-workers in the board of directors. It is now also a matter of abolishing and establishing the Croatian Institute for Social Work, instead of discharging your personal disability and extras for assistance and care from the centre and disbursing it in such a way. The Centre for Social Care and Discharged Social Workers, Administrative Affairs on Rights That No Longer Belongs to the Social Care System. Because their recognition depends largely or almost entirely on the health condition of the users. You have set aside employment benefits that are marginal, only 1800 users at the level of the entire Croatia versus 130 000 persons with disabilities and extras for assistance and care. Social mentorship is a good service in this law but inapplicable, because now there will be no one to conduct it. Trust a social worker who has 300 users and works in the area of guaranteed minimum fees will not be able to conduct and social mentor persons unemployed until you say they hire new workers, conduct education and everything else because she has nothing to do in her time except administrative procedures. And the unemployed in the welfare system need certainly social integration and that is a resource that society must not give up. You speak continuously of unequal actions behind which you do not offer any analysis of the centre's behaviour. With what tool do you intend to balance actions other than by applying the rules of law and the rules of the profession? The unification of the first act directly coincides with the individual approach and each family and is war-specific. No districts such as we have the opportunity to see in the Croatian Pension Insurance and Health Insurance Office will determine the direction of the development of family work on the ground. Social work is very dynamic, unpredictable and you can never prepare enough for a day in which you can receive either emergency accommodation for a child or an elderly person for whom you do not have the capacity and you have to spend your time professionally to spend five or ten days looking for adequate accommodation, begging colleagues from other centres, fellow directors of the institution or eventually the Ministry to provide him with a place, and in fact it is something that has to be understood that in such needs we have a free place for every necessary person. The system is certainly not designed for such an individual approach, but it is only about the maintenance and development of the system. You're proposing a commission, setting up a complaint committee. You are talking about the openness of the system to the civil sector as if so far there has been no possibility of complaint against workers. However, according to the Social Care Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act, the party had the possibility to file complaints either at the centre or at the ministry all the time. In his work, each professional worker provided evidence to either the principal or the ministry, and that is nothing new. It is now marginalising the work of not only the Centre for Social Care but also the ministries. When a commission is established which is in fact an indication that the ministry cannot respond at all to the requests of the user, and which is devastating with all the experts at its disposal. How do you think independent experts will assess professional work if we in the centres and in the ministries were unable to do how they see it should be. Yesterday we heard on the committees that this commission is not going to deal with content, but the form that is the same here is really another defeating even the direction where that commission is going to be dealt with is really not clear, and the fact that we heard from the ministry that there are 13,000 complaints in the ministry. How much will the Board of Appeal end up dealing with and how they will determine the fate and professional work of the workers. And what we will do when the public is not possibly satisfied with the work and the commission. So we're gonna start a commission, then? What we are witnessing now is the collapse of certainly the work and dignity of supporting professions, inventing jobs whose work is far from the essence we need, which is working with family, working on the ground, working in the family in need, in the local community. You are talking about new employment which the system certainly needs, but with this new employment needs to be relieved of professionals from jobs that do not belong to the social care system. The number of users of special health conditions is increasing rapidly. You contribute to the red tape of social care activities and demotize every young person who comes into the social care system with many calls, not just interest. What we can estimate for the good in this law is the increase in the guaranteed minimum fee, whose base will now be 1000 kuna instead of 800 kuna, and the increase in compensation for the personal needs of the situated users will now be 250 and 350, respectively, but that is also the uncertainty and burden of the system. You plan to start a social care academy, set up family centres, introduce instructions all of what we had opportunities to see in 2011 when it was tried to introduce a few months as proved to be a model inapplicable. And now after 10 months, you're trying to re-innovate, poor copies of the introduction under some name of a new reform that will solve all the problems. The existing out-of-institutional service needs to be increased, adequate accommodation facilities provided in community service centres, and family homes should not be abolished, but provided support in work, regular monitoring and quality of accommodation. It is absurd to abolish social care centres as a public institution, as you say, to increase interoperability, and on the other hand, you expect to set up public institutions for all family homes. According to data in December 2020, 2277 children were placed in a foster home and 4263 adults. 80% of children are placed in foster care without parents or adequate parental care, and the fact is that the number of foster parents is in decline, that the number of children without adequate parental care was constantly growing in homes, we currently have as many as two thousand children in foster care compared to the year 2015. What is really the problem is that professional workers spend days finding a place for children and adults and that is what is a burning problem this reform does not deal with at all. The ministry should be led by research, following trends in child care and adult care, and the foster care team in centres should be available for the work of foster parents, and this will only be achieved if we disburse professional workers and ensure that they deal with user tours and work with foster parents. This reform is not ambitious in view of any planned means, nor is it in line with any implementing act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72461	Thank you very much, highly respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I will briefly refer to a set of chamber laws that rely on this basic social care law. So, the regulated professions we talk about in the field of social care are, in addition to the profession, a social worker and a psychologist profession, an educational rehabilitator, a social educator, a psychotherapist and an advisory therapist. And now by adopting this law, it says, it expects to prevent the introduction of unwarranted restrictive conditions for working in a regulated profession and clearer regulation of the work and powers of the chamber. But what are the problems? The chamber assembly is the highest decision-making body and is made up of all authorised psychotherapists, authorised advisory therapists, if this chamber is concerned with other professions, depending on which chamber it is involved. And now that chamber assembly is taking the statutes, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the decision on the annual work report, the decision on the financial report, the level of membership, other general acts, the ethical code, etc., and now, as proposed, everything with the previous consent of the ministry. In the opinion of the profession or chambers to which these legislative changes apply, the impact on the independence of the chambers of regulated professions is limited, financial independence is further lost, the ministry of the chamber can block work, for example, if the chamber is attached to a topic with the minister, it may be deprived of its consent, or the chamber president whose number of mandates is limited. The question is, how is everything going to reflect, for example? where it is intended to provide assistance to membership, etc., let's say that the chamber has made a decision, for example. at the level of membership, which is why before that, the consent of the ministry. So what does the waist say now? For example, in public consultation, the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers says the first complication that arises is contained in the provisions of who can be a psychotherapist, and who, of course, welcomes the idea that clear conditions are laid down in the new law, but emphasises the need for further education through psychotherapy prodeutics for all those staff who during their education did not face mental health difficulties, nor did they have sufficient education in psychology and psychiatry. Second, what they warn is that it is a kind of discrimination against patients in the Republic of Croatia because it leaves out the possibility of implementing the Law on the activity of psychotherapy in the health system because it results in patients who are treated psychotherapy can be treated psychotherapy by persons who do not have the right to be psychotherapists, so according to existing and proposed conditions, who can be a psychotherapist of many people who are going to perform psychotherapy are not qualified for psychotherapy. Now, in the interpretations of the law or the proposal, the law does not prevent healthcare professionals from carrying out psychotherapy under the terms of the prescribed law, but it is all expensively unarranged because this bill says that the psychotherapy activity implies itself as an economic activity outside the health system. And precisely because there are so many indeterminations in all these chamber laws or laws that the colleague also mentioned since there is no respect for the waist, although there are some good moments, but there have been many of these objections that have not been observed. We as the SDP Club will not support all these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72462	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72463	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Vice President of the Assembly. Today, we have a package of laws in the field of social care which in the media has caused an avalanche of comments, which is positive for what is negative, so we've got more than 2,000 pages of material, that's for those who read the legal proposals that we get. So, the current 2014 law has been amended and complemented as many as 8 times since it is clearly concluded that it has not shown itself to be the best in practice, so the consequences of social care services, but also social workers, in the social care system, have unfortunately all witnessed the tragedies that have led to the loss of human lives. Social services are currently provided through 82 social care centres, and one part of the professional public thinks that this system is fragmented and that it has shown a lack of capacity, which is why centralised is proposed with the intention that users have a more uniform service in all parts of Croatia. Therefore, it is proposed to abolish the legal personality of the social care centre, and the centres are replaced by a central social care office of 21 branches of the institutions and outposts. The Croatian Institute of Social Work will consist of central service, regional services, or 21 social care centres in the headquarters of the county, county and 75 social care centres and the establishment of 22 branches of the social care centre. The above-mentioned structure reduces the number of directors and boards from 82 so far to only one director and one board of directors. The Institute will assume public authority as well as other professional affairs of the social care centre is in this legislative proposal. It is precisely this centralisation that is controversial to the expert part of the public, since centralisation is generally shown to be problematic because there is not enough imputence from the field and we always try to pursue and apply the principle of subsidiarity. It is not disputed how the welfare system must have a certain level of standardisation throughout the country, but welfare centres should also respond to the specific needs of local community citizens in which they operate. It may be a better way to revise the current network of centres and branches, after which changes should be seen, depending on the observed deficiencies and thus improve them such as transforming smaller centres into branches and strengthening the network by employment and education of employees and investing in infrastructure. But let's face it, it doesn't matter whether there's going to be centralised or not, it's only important that users feel better about their situation. The new legislative proposal should significantly relieve employees of social care centres and reduce the number of public powers for which they are responsible, especially those not in the most closely related to the social care system, and this has now been done only with compensation for employment. Currently, centres have about 145 powers leading to insufficient focus on the needs of users and failure to meet the purpose of the system. Dispersion would ensure the timely and quality protection of users, or prevention of the tragedy we unfortunately witnessed. It should certainly be commended for the establishment of the Academy of Social Care as a public institution which will aim to organise and implement professional training, professional and other workers in the system and to standardise compulsory and specialised training programmes to ensure continued professional training of professionals and other workers. The aim of the reform is to reduce poverty, the risk of poverty is particularly high for children, people of older age and persons with disabilities. It is commendable and minimal, but an important step to reduce the risk of poverty and will go on to increase the basis for calculating the guaranteed minimum fee from 800 to 1,000 kuna in 2022. The proposed legislative proposal extends the circle of persons who can recognise the right to the status of carers, which encourages the stay of a child with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities in their own home. In addition, parents and carers are entitled to a higher amount of compensation if a child with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities due to medical conditions cannot be included in programmes and services in the community, and parents who independently care for two or more children with developmental difficulties or disabled persons are further increased. In order to protect children with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities, conditions are laid down for parents or carers. It is necessary to consider whether it is possible to enable the status of the carer at least even offspring, marriage or extramarital others who can no longer take care of themselves. As for the Household Act, it should be pointed out that the last time we spoke of him was three years ago, and during this short period he showed certain shortcomings, with the importance of pointing out that fostering is extremely noble and commendable is a valuable decision on the one hand, but also a responsible decision because it uncontestedly changes and touches many lives. We still did not reach an 80% ratio of children in foster families, according to 20% in institutions, which has been part of different deinstitutionalisation plans for years. Three years ago, as the most important newspaper, we introduced the possibility of conducting specialized foster care for children when we also prescribed special conditions that involve a high degree of professional training, at least three years of working with children and younger adults, and in this regard it has happened that since this law entered into force in 2019, which has allowed professional household service in Croatia, no specialised foster parent has been registered. For a reason, there may be a certain amount, although this should not be crucial, but in this legislative proposal, there have been some changes and the introduction of professional foster care, or the pursuit of foster care as an occupation of wages and labour rights, we certainly welcomed it then, but we have noted that this should not be the only basis why someone wants to be a foster parent. The proposed legislative proposal extends the range of interests of persons who have been able to carry out specialised foster care for children so far, the conditions for years of internships have been reduced from three to one year, and that internship can be achieved in working with children and younger adults, and not exclusively with persons who need the highest degree of support as it has been so far. In addition, given the experience gained so far in child care and underage in foster care, in particular with regard to children with developmental difficulties and chronically ill children, specialised foster care is possible for children of the former foster parents of secondary, higher and higher education independent of species. Redefining the conditions for performing specialised foster care will allow for the development of the said foster care as well as better quality care for children and younger minors who need the highest degree of support. Redefining the method of calculating and determining the amount of compensation for the work of fosterers and supplies will enable better protection of the rights of users as well as improvement of the rights of fosterers. All of these shortcomings need to persist in its decision to introduce professional foster care as a form of care, however, it needs to be sought to revive and encourage fosterment because data are devastating. In addition, the above objective should also be through the education of experts from the social care system to help overcome shortcomings and challenges in ensuring quality foster care. In view of the conditions and requirements of child care with specific needs set before foster parents the past period has shown that this type of fostering is not enough to be stimulating, so we hope that these changes and supplements will contribute to people starting to foster care and the quality category should be given priority, quality should be given in terms of quantity, however let us not forget that the quantity is equally uncontested and affects many lives. These changes are only the first step because they improve the status of existing foster parents, and we hope that they will attract new foster parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72464	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72465	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The social care system in the Republic of Croatia is one of the most complex systems and is certainly one of those in which the eyes of our fellow citizens are pointed. The system covers almost several hundred thousand users of our citizens whether they provide through a social compensation and services system, whether they are family legal protection users or other forms of care or assistance. It is organized this way as through institutions for children, for adults, for older people, for young people, it is of course organized through the center for social care that is the bearer of activity. We also have a number of institutions and institutions of private character and we have over 4,000 natural and legal persons who in some way care about our citizens in the system or providers are different services. We've been calling for years for social reform. There are indications that some beginnings have sometimes started to stop or have never been completed. Yes, it is true that there have often been changes in regulations and regulations, i.e. there have been a number of shorter interventions through amendments and additions to the Social Welfare Act, and all of this has led to the fact that, in the future, through monitoring and analysis of the impact of all these regulations, the Ministry has decided to pass a new whole law with an additional package of reform laws, as well as in the future with additional strategies. The reform of the social system has been called upon by all, the profession, the professional workers, the operators, the users, the interested professional public, the academic public and we are now on the verge of passing a package of reform laws and, of course, we all work together to bring this reform back together. No regulation will work unless it's implemented, and it's up to all of us now. This, these laws, these laws will bring structural and quality changes to the social care centre as basic institutions in the social care system through the organisation of the Croatian Institute for Social Work. The public authorities will be dissolved and reduced and thus will allow for the strengthening of the centre's professional work. The development and separation of family centres as independent institutions with a view to implementing programme activities aimed at prevention especially for children, young people and families with the aim of preventing and assisting responsible parenting, so the separation of activities in a care centre that has a therapeutic character will surely lead to discharge and work in the centre itself. And, of course, what we all aim at is the expansion and availability of services at local community level with the aim of making social care services evenly available in all parts of our country and continuing lifelong education. We well know that very often employees in the welfare system pointed out justifiable overload and administration, too, and that they had too many powers, too, that they were too few. The same thing was said here today about the number of social workers on the number of users they have in their care, and that must be one of our goals. This law, with the disbursement of public powers, also brings new employment opportunities to centres, has already been employed several months ago, perhaps early in the autumn of 200 professionals who are in the system, I agree, not yet enough, but it is right in that direction. Dispersion is not sure how it should be or how social workers want it in the centers, but it's now on the verge of it. They were distended by the obligation of social polls on the exits of prisoners and parole, and it goes into the jurisdiction of the probationary system. The cost of paying for accommodation in the student home is directly paid by the ministry, the cost of transporting students with developmental difficulties in cross-city pay transport by the Ministry of the Sea. Also, local and regional self-government units will no longer write certificates and any credentials, when they are to be exercised according to their citizens, but will exchange data through SocSkrb. The employment fee shall be transferred to HZZ's jurisdiction. The separation of the family centre already mentioned will certainly reduce the need for intervention of the social care centre. Centres for providing services in the community with their development will be able, with the availability of their services, to take over some of the jobs and obligations of the centre, such as psychosocial support or treatment. Instructions are introduced which are a major discharge since they are released from the administrative procedure and the adoption of a solution for certain services related to outside institutional services except for the accommodation services of organised housing. We should particularly point out that what social workers are most burdened by and were in this debate is administration and collection of data related to the allowance, for care and assistance, personal disability, it is certainly in the consideration, and the minister has also announced that they will be excluded from this obligation. The establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Care is also going towards reducing some of the obligations that centres have, and administrative legal character are, for example, making some analyses. And here was mentioned reporting to the competition and using and withdrawing funds from the eu funds. So it's definitely going in there, too. All of this is in the direction of liberating and time and capacity of human resources to work with users and that's the part that doesn't take away social workers, that's the authority for which they get from the state, they only need to know and can implement it. Their professional treatments, protocols, their assessments that they have in relation to needs and the rights of users is something that is certain to remain with them, and all of this is in the function of releasing additional jobs. The law also plays a role in reducing the risk of poverty by increasing social benefits. The guaranteeed minimum fee has not been changed since 2013. Many social rewards have been changed over the past five years, more focused on increasing different rights is related to persons with disabilities, 800 kuna now base will go to 1,000 kuna with a tendency to increase to 1,500. Each year, the minister will make his or her own decision, the height and the amount of the basics, and what is the news that this law increases the maximum amount of minimum household compensation guaranteed to 150% of the gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. The news to users is that 50% of the minimum fees will be used by homeless people living in an organised apartment, persons at the shelter of victims of violence, and the allowance has also been increased for children and young people. And what is important is that the guaranteed minimum remuneration for persons employed will not be abolished in the first six months of employment, thus stimulating increasing participation in the labour market. We must stress that we have more than 50% of the users guaranteed the minimum fees that there are 34,000 who are able to work, the aim of this law is that as early as they return to the world of work so that social mentorship, with the active inclusion of the Employment Service, will in some way be in inter-resorial cooperation with the aim of making workers an active exemption from the social care system, at least through guaranteed minimum compensation. What we also say to a person with disabilities, should be said to increase the circle of persons who use the status of carers and are increased benefits for the status of parents and carers 4,000 have now, 5,000 if the child cannot be included in any programme of providing services to the community and if the parents of two children then it is 6,000. It is certainly necessary to continue to insist on the development of social services they are the best treatment in the local community and thus are the most available and available. What is mentioned here is whether the centralisation and establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Care are centralized only by some standardisation procedures and important uniformity. Very often, the ministry had to intervene precisely on the inequality of the procedure, and I think it's like the academy, as well as the family center to help people and to work in the field. Family centers will be organized in 21 counties will play a preventive role, our families have really big problems especially we have problems raising children, raising children, providing parenting, I think for all these 3 public institutions are very important. What one of the disputes was talking about, and this decision-making committee on the basis of the complaints, I already said in the replica that unfortunately very often the public has a lot to do in some media area and also in the daily jargon and speech commenting on the work of social workers, it is really difficult for all professional workers. I think this commission can be in some way a good arbiter, and in that sense it should be experienced. The law also mentions family homes, and I think we should really work on that. Family homes accommodate a large number of about 6,000 of our older citizens and we will have problems setting up the same ones as hiring people who will be jobless. Hostage is something we wanted and wanted to develop. The problem with foster care is in other environments. It has now gone back to increasing compensation and fosterers and supplies for users who are located in foster families, and I think perhaps with once again a good campaign, by stimulating the additional work of the fostering teams on the ground should promote it, however the problem with the staff is, many of our citizens may have turned to some other activities. This takes a lot of love and patience. We should give them all a port, especially an expert transport on the ground, that's what they need. As far as these are concerned, I would say chamber laws are laws on regulated professions. The vast majority there is for the sake of harmonisation and nomotechnical but also for the unification of the rights of chamber members, easier achievement and membership in the chamber and as better co-operation with the ministry because these are all regulated professions that operate in this activity. As for the conditions of activity, for a psychotherapist, I am inclined and I have already communicated that the conditions are as they are in this current law. I think that some basic education, studies of social, humanitarian, medical, social, psychological sciences are a good prerequisite and a good basis for specialization in psychotherapy. Psychotherapy is important to her, she can be very helpful. but also hurt. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72466	The next debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This proposal of the Social Care Act better put forward this reform of the social care system, which includes this set, which we are going to discuss today, has raised to new and professional and legal experts from the academic community and user organisation. All agree in unison that this reform is, therefore, also this concrete proposal of the Social Care Act, bad, although harmful to a very sensitive social care system in the Republic of Croatia. Prof. Dr.sc. Nino Žganec, a regular professor at the Department for the Theory and Methods of Social Labour of the Faculty of Law Zagreb, clearly and precisely cited 8 reasons why this reform of the social care system was missed. So to move forward, the process of reforming the social care system was neither inclusive nor transparent, the product is seen by the forward ministry and this clearly shows the fact that both the profession and the academic community and the user associations have raised their voice against such bureaucratic imagined reforms. Secondly, the reform process is not in line with the criteria of public policy making which, therefore, these criteria can be a thorough analysis of the situation, an assessment of the needs of all stakeholders of the system, the development of reform scenarios and the impact assessment of each individual measure, so these criteria are not at all or are not largely met. Three, the reform objectives do not meet the fundamental problems of the social care system, these objectives are too declarative, general, and thus clearly show that no serious and deep analysis of the situation and problems has been made. Fourthly, the reform is based on the wrong assumption that the existing social services system is good. Therefore, it is clear that without a thorough reform of the model of the existing social services system, any serious reform of the social care system is not possible. The existing structure needs to be transformed, decentralised and let take responsibility for the creation and provision of services on the ground. A completely different model of social care services, social services is needed, and it is particularly important to connect with the civil sector. Networking and co-operation of all entities in the system and immersion in the local community can provide a guarantee of more efficient and efficient work and better results, which of course and profit for, well-being for end-users. The reform, therefore the fifth point, does not answer the question of the chronic and large lack of social services for different user groups. The introduction of only 15 types of services into a system in which multiple large ones are needed, so there are older people, poor citizens, disabled persons, children with behavioural disorders without adequate parental care and many other users, certainly need social services outside this given number and title and such mechanical regulation or better said hyper and micro normisation is an indicator of the fundamental lack of understanding of the logic of the functioning of the social care system and it is obvious that the legislator wants to be provided in terms of financial control or financial constraints, which is indeed unacceptable. The most sensitive groups of our society are simply not to be spared. Six points, the reform instead of decentralisation introduces a hypercentralisation of the social care system. So, instead of accessing the reorganisation of the local social services system, including the introduction of new social service providers, and the improved efficiency of business processes in existing services, the de facto elimination of any autonomy in the business of social care centres is envisaged, there are no new social services, and this introduces a new degree of hypercentralisation of the system, which definitely eradicates social work from the local community, further bureaucratises the system and the behaviour of experts, and prevents professional development of social work. Social care centres continue to remain administrative places burdened with huge administrations which users of social services examine, control, monitor, and do not provide social services according to the rules of the profession. The management of these services should be at lower levels of government, and national levels should be subject to the rules to be followed and to exercise genuine supervision in their implementation. Such solutions will cause long-term damage to the welfare system, which will have to be reformed again soon and stop its own devastation. Seven, social benefits to beneficiaries of social care are mostly inappropriate. The proposal for reform in the area of social benefits does not actually make any significant progress. Despite the stressed intention to increase the basis for calculating the amount of the guaranteed cash compensation by 25%, however, according to the calculations of some experts of a particular group of users due to so-called ‘c’. Equivalence scales ultimately receive a lower amount. In addition, the method of determining the base remains arbitration without binding the amount to some measurable size, such as that. A line of poverty, a minimum wage or something. And the eighth point, there is not sufficient level of support for professional public reform and is expected to continue to resist and dissatisfaction. There have been over 2,000 remarks in the e-consultation. Yes, there are remarks that copy pastures, but what it tells us, tells us that an enormous number of members of all five chambers wanted to make it known how much they opposed this text of the law and this kind of reform. Unfortunately, the resolution ministry does not show interest in messages and criticism and the professional public but seems to trust the opinions of a number of directors of social care institutions who, on organised activities, are likely to be commended by keeping their own mandates. How can success in implementing a law that is totally unacceptable to those who need to apply it? Can dissatisfaction workers in a rather detached system with these extra frustrations successfully work? Who will be responsible for the long-term and long-term collapse of the welfare system that is inevitable if such a law is adopted? Prof. This 8-point diagnosis was made very clearly and specifically by the detailed explanations of each of these 8 points. Dear Ministers, you can find this text on the website of the Universityportal.hr, it is available to the entire Croatian public. The important note is that he's a professor. Žganec was part of the task force, but was released in 2020 due to the inactivity and inactivity of the group. It is also known that three respected professors, head of the study centre of social work, also addressed the public. Gordana Berc, first man of the Department of Labour and Social Law, Prof. Željko Potočnjak, and the head of the Department of Administrative Science Prof. Gordana Marcetic and they have clearly defined themselves against this imagined reform of the social care system, meaning also against this bill. In public e-consultation, they made their remarks to all professional organisations and user organisations, so there is a logical question as to how you allowed this bill to be of little use to anyone, to anyone, to the profession, to the users, or to the academic community. Why didn't you really include a wide range of stakeholders in the design? Why didn't you really allow a real public debate? Why didn't you want to accept arguments and professions and users and legal professionals? Why didn't you study it? Žganeca, the comparative methods of the social care system in the world that rely on the verified solutions resulting from the vast accumulated knowledge in the sphere of science, the experience of practitioners, interests and needs of citizens and of course, but always significantly less political preferences of the dominant political option in power? Why is there always and forever the most important political will in power, in this case HDZ, what is the problem? Isn't it if you want every government's political goal to succeed? In Croatia, despite the dramatic departure of the most educated people, there are smart people and there are excellent experts only to be gathered and listened to. Let me remind you, decentralisation, deetatisation and deintituationalization so-called. The 3D formula was targeted in accession negotiations to join the EU, and this is an apparent giving up on all of this, it can be said that it was down to only one D, a destruction of social care. As you took away the possibility of commenting on individual laws by uniting the debate, you took away 6 times 10 minutes to make up for it with five minutes of extension of the debate on behalf of the club, which is a clear depriving of the possibility of a democratic debate, I will look back only a little on one part of the Household Act. I must, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, express a great disappointment with the government's lack of determination to build in the Household Law such an obvious fact that it is explicitly in the text of the law that they are also sexual. formal and informal life partners are also able to be foster parents. Our society in the last 20 years has passed several important discussions in recognising the rights of LGBTQ persons of the former government were so-called. to the left, were so-called. The right has improved the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to protect the rights of sexual and gender minorities. With great disappointment, we find that despite the clear decision of the Constitutional Court that the same-sex partners should not be discriminated against with regard to the access to foster care, they did not have the courage to include explicitly in the law and life partners as legitimate foster parents, this is, unfortunately, a step backwards and we appeal to you to enter these changes into this law until the second reading, primarily because of the interests of a number of children waiting for fosterment, but also because of the reduction of the rank of LGBTQ persons in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72468	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Posavec Krivec and Nikolic Šimunić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72469	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. I am extremely glad that you are here today, as I am extremely glad that you are here today, so unhappy and sad that you were not here with us on November 8th in the Croatian Parliament on a round table entitled "What Brings the announced reform of the social care system" to which we have invited you as the most numerous opposition club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We called you as the Social Democrats Club for the reason we believe that the set of laws that you propose is extremely important for the future of our country, for the future of our Croatia in which we want all residents and residents to have equal opportunities and equal rights. We're sorry that you didn't respond, but neither did your colleagues from the ruling ranks because we invited all the club representatives, and we're sorry that some of them here today are reading things that are being downloaded from Facebook or from the portal, and they could hear all of it from respected experts right here in HS on that open desk. It was on that open round table that we spoke openly, and that is what is our main objection to this reform. The main objection is that there is no involvement here, there is no tolerance for other and different thinking, so at the very beginning in these five minutes on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I will say that we strongly oppose what you call social care reform in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that Croatia needs social care reform, but we believe that it needs reform on a new paradigm, on a paradigm that will respect and expect investment and investment in people, precisely the core of social development are programmes and measures of social policy. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we all know that central government is responsible for the development of social protection, but units of regional and regional and local self-government are also responsible. Economic and social development is linked to each other, so it is often the case that economic inequalities follow social inequalities, this means an unequal approach to social rights, which means that in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, people have neither the same needs nor the same opportunities. We at the Social Democrats Club are interested in answering questions, how are the social protection funds allocated to your vision on the ground? Is there a link between the difference between social protection expenditure and socio-economic development indicators? We're interested in what really brings us a radical change in the structure that dotes the legal personality of the welfare center? We ministers so as not to be mistaken we welcome something in this law. We welcome the planned changes that bring additional money to improve the system, increase some social benefits, but ask ourselves, will this money with new reform and new inaccessibility really come where it belongs? And Ministers that it wouldn't be that we're just complaining, and we don't suggest, we all know very well together that the welfare system isn't a system that we can measure as an economic system as an economic system, this is a system that requires big investments, this is a system that doesn't create an additional monetary value, but this is a system that produces a better society, a better society, a better society, a society of equal opportunities, and that's why we as Social Democrats are always going to stand up for it. And we know that it's not in the vault that you run out there somewhere at the end of that big mega-essor that's put on your burden, but now you're going to see responsibility in the next generations there's always limited resources. And as much of these funds as they come from any source of their own or European is never enough for all needs. We can't say that this whole reform, we can't say that because it still doesn't include the law on an inclusive supplement. How long will we wait in Croatia for the law on inclusive addition? We can't agree with this reform because it doesn't agree with the profession. That's what my colleagues helped me before me. I don't have to repeat it. We can't agree with this reform because who's going to implement it the way you imagined it. For the next five years, we will only deal with how to bring the new reform into the field. We'll destroy everything that generations have built well. So, you started reforming entirely from the wrong initiatives. You are going into reform to put out the fire, the fire that took place because of the unsavourable events in Croatia. So the resignation of the minister is not too late. Give up this reform, let's all sit at the table, turn the paradigm, give Croatia what it really needs, which is building a better society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72470	Thank you, Vice President. Although we have been calling for years for a new Law on Social Welfare in view of the situation found in our society, social rights and policies, and given the amount of problems that we have all been deeply aware of today, I must stress that such a bill is not any reform of social policies that we have long waited and called for years. Every time there is a tragedy by ruling instructions for a parole where they announce the solution to all problems with the new Social Care Act. Unfortunately, the law is there, but we still don't have a solution to the problem. When the profession, service providers and users themselves, the most vulnerable members of our society agree in one way and that the bill is more than bad. We need to ask ourselves where is this announced reform of social care and how this society and this state think about taking care of human souls that need our systematic care and systematic assistance. The State is obliged and obliged to ensure the right to assist in meeting the basic needs of all those who need it as one of the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia. In order to better address the problem of those who need help, it is important to identify first groups of societies that need to be helped. According to Eurostat, the poverty rate in Croatia has increased by an incredible 33.8% and as many as 66% of about a million and 200 thousand pensioners have fewer incomes than the miserable 2.927 kuna per month. And it all sounds even worse when we know information about the share of pensions in the average Croatian salary, and it is only 36% today. The draft law does not provide for the introduction of the status of guardians for older persons in the family that the state has promised to introduce and even put into its current strategy. What the draft envisions is the abolition of family homes, unfortunately many users, their families and owners. The ruling did nothing to provide an ever-increasing older population with adequate living conditions when I can no longer take care of myself. The decision to abolish nearly 500 family homes in Croatia will not help at all, but also make the situation worse in which only 2.6% older than 65 years can one day count as home. The abolition of family homes concerned more than 10,000 families whose older members were stationed in them. Over 500 owners who had been motivated by the ministry over 20 years were concerned about their work and worried about opening these very families' homes. If some of these 500 homes do not meet a level that is not standardised anyway, is it the only solution to abolishing homes rather than setting certain standards? The solution is not and cannot be abolished because the capacity to accommodate the elderly and powerless simply does not exist or is realistically replaced by 2027. Don't punish home users or people who take care of them. As many as 800,000 pensioners in Croatia live below the poverty line. We are witnessing the collection of a whole series of basic products and energy products, and the collection of municipal services is announced. Generally looking at Croatian pensioners without additional income and continued financial assistance from their children can starve. Not all of them, but as many as 800,000 have incomes below the official poverty line, and according to a report by the 7% of our fellow citizens at risk of poverty are affected by the ULN. Unfortunately, this bill of law will not solve or reduce this problem, and it should. And that's why Croatia has an actual army of 800,000 poor per Eurostat. A social bomb that's ticking at any moment. People who've worked their whole lives, and in the end, they're going to run out of worries. And finally, I would like to remind you of the first sentence of the first article of our Constitution, which reads, the Republic of Croatia is a unique and indivisible democratic and social state. Unfortunately, this bill of law not only does it not bring us closer to the common goal of the social state but it distances us from it. And we can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72471	The respected representative Simunic will now continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72472	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, due to the lack of the previous Household Act, which has been in force since 1 January 2019, the objectives of the promotion of foster care have not been achieved. The number of new foster parents as well as the number of foster parents for foster children is in constant decline. There is also no such foster home in the Republic of Croatia today, despite a legal paper that allowed specialised foster care to be carried out in the Republic of Croatia. But the question arises: will these changes to the law change the current state of society and contribute to quality foster care as well as increasing the number of foster parents? I don't think so. The alarm number is that 500 foster parents have left in the last year, and only about 130 are new. Statistics therefore say that 350 foster families are lost, and since there are around 1500 in the Republic of Croatia, this figure is then more than alarming. At no time should we forget the fact that we have about 700 children in our homes today and that all these children cannot be placed in foster homes, deeply aware that for the growth and healthy development of each child, it is extremely important to grow up in the warmth of the home. Despite the care of professional staff in children's homes, no institution can replace the family. As the draft new Household Act was presented, the whole weight of the problem was reduced to positive changes in the calculation of household and supply benefits, thinking that this would increase the quality of care for users. In view of inflation, prices actually will remain at the same level for fosterers. Whether it will solve all problems of the system, the foster parents are getting smaller and smaller from day to day, the new ones are gone, why, this problem cannot and will not be solved only by money. It is necessary to present and sensitize the public what a foster family means to a child, how important it is to open your heart and your home to children who do not have it. It is necessary to motivate our citizens, young families to host with tailored media campaigns and the availability of information throughout the country, to build facilities for foster societies, as well as to revise criteria for specialised foster care for children, especially for children with developmental difficulties and children with behavioral problems. Child fostering has proven the best way of alternative care for those who cannot achieve it in the biological family. However, foster care is also a social service that will enable the process of deinstitutionalisation and, as such, must be a product of high-quality social policy, not just empathy and goodwill for individuals or families. The quality fostering of children first rests on the possibilities of potential and existing foster parents to accept the child's accommodation. These options are for specialized foster care, i.e. for fostering children with developmental difficulties and past law behavioural problems have been significantly reduced, therefore legislative changes on the level of education in this case are absolutely necessary. Quality foster care rests on support, assistance, services and resources needed by all family members. Experts are needed by fostering that supervisory role, but also by supporting it, which is why we support the greater involvement of the systems and the professionals who make it. The availability of supervisory, group and individual work with foster parents and children from foster families currently depends on the engagement of individuals and is not equally represented in all areas of the Republic, and it is very important and necessary for all those who live every day throughout the day. Also, the population that society often forgets about, and one of the most vulnerable are young people coming out of the social care system. In today’s time when youth unemployment is at its peak, it is very difficult to expect that young people from foster families will be fully prepared for quality independent life after their adulthood or completion. Additional support in this process is extremely important, and it should also be one of the key topics when we talk about fostering children. Furthermore, the proposed amendments fail to include informal life partners in the definition of the foster family contained in Article 1. 9th century 3. of the existing Household Law. There are no objections because the Constitutional Court did not order a change of law, but it is an undeniable fact that same-sex couples are fostering children and not just one couple whose defences have been brought to the Constitutional Court but rather several couples. Therefore, there is no reason why this provision would not enter into the law. Finally, it is important to say that foster care would be raised to a much higher level, thus providing children with the best care among other things, must go into reform and change of family law, and more concretely regulate the rights of foster parents, which would further contribute to the resolution of existing problems in foster care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72473	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and RF, and a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72474	Good afternoon, everyone. We shouldn't be talking so much about social welfare that we're not a social case. .../Laughter/......... Yesterday the prime minister told me to get serious because we can't talk about him running the race to the bottom. [[Applause]] Why? So precisely because we said he increased wages, increased employment, increased pensions, GDP, exports, investments. But the problem is, I'm sure they'll put it there, and we've seen that HDZ's have a jokebachter, and that, unfortunately, we've found out, don't be angry, don't have a jokebachter, but now you're going to enter into a jokebacher and you've increased social benefits, and it's going to be just as problematic as it is when you say that you've raised wages, employment, pensions, etc., so HDZ is manipulating numbers, and we need to start addressing these statistical manipulations and responding. So when they say they've increased the number of employees then they count all the insurance companies, they're manipulating tens of thousands of people who aren't employed, but they're insurance companies. When they say it is one better situation in terms of increasing employment then they fully deny the employment rate which is one of the lowest in Europe, so we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe. Almost a million people, so they're sitting at home, not employed, but they're able to do it, and the prime minister won't say it, and that's not the real situation of colleagues and colleagues, because that's not the number of all who moved out, so 17.6% of the working-age population, and that's how we got to the number of good jobs, and that's very similar to what we're going to see here today with social benefits. When we talk about the need for social transfers, then we don't really just talk about people who aren't employed and who don't have any material incomes anymore, but we have to talk more and more about employees who are poor, means working in poverty. Why? Because Croatia has some of the lowest salaries in the EU, the lowest minimum salaries, the highest average salaries, and when the prime minister says he managed to get to 60% of the average salary, then it's like he said zero is zero, I mean the share of nothing is nothing, the share of something that's nothing is nothing, because I think there are things pretty clear, so our minimum wage that reaches 60% of the average salary, the average salary that is one of the lowest in Europe, so we're in a group of countries with the lowest average wage and that average salary is the lowest growth relative to other countries in Europe. That's why when we talk about the pay hikes, we're talking about the minimum wage of 60%, we're really talking about something that's not an increase. When we talk about pensioners they're practically in their largest part means 52% of pensioners social cases, so now we're talking about the population of social cases, those who are retired, those who don't work, but also those who work means almost the entire population, there's nobody left. Those who are left can only evict. Peaceliness has been stagnating for years, they have grown slightly with the last pairing of 2.46%, but when we look at the 3.8% inflation, they're actually pensioners who haven't even felt that pension increase. Average pension in December 2020 amounting to €2.566, the proportion of pensions was then mentioned here, the share of pensions since 2020. It was 39%, but now 37% means it's falling. Otherwise, the proportion of pension rates in the EU means 52% of the average net pensions in the average net salary. So we're really talking about the growing poverty of the pensioners here. And then finally, we have a whole category of poor people, and these are almost a million people, so a million people in Croatia live at risk of poverty. Croatia is the 8th worst country in Europe at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Yesterday, the prime minister mentioned that he would especially commit himself to poverty and social exclusion, so I hope he will because we are the 8th worst in Europe. The risk of poverty is 18.3% of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion 23.3%, people in severe material deprivation 7.3%, 6.6% cannot afford adequate heating in winter months, 48.6% cannot afford a week of vacation outside the house. By the way, in the dark socialism, it was ten percent less. 7.9% cannot afford a meal every other day that contains meat, chicken, fish or vegetarian equivalent, 51.7% cannot settle unexpected expenditure means when your washing machine breaks down most of the people in Croatia have no expenditure. 15.7% is late with the payment of the liabilities of the residential loan, the rent, the director's account or the consumer's credit. Croatia, as you know, is the 3rd poorest country in the EU. So when we talk about HDZ raising the basis for a guaranteed minimum wage to persons who are completely incompetent to work, remember HDZ will certainly enter into their jokebachter that their officials will repeat as parrots, without comparing to other EU countries because when we talk about how much something has been raised, how much employment has been raised, how much pensions have to be paid, how much pensions have to have been paid, and what we have to start to think about what I'm saying to the opposition, I think we need to start responding to their statistical data because we can't ignore the fact that HDZ is very good, the rating is really good, congratulations to his colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, but largely because no one is responding to their statistical manipulations. Mostly when the prime minister starts on those numbers, I guess the sound or I don't know what it is, but most of the time, it doesn't suit him. This law is about everything, that's what kind of motto with this law would what Winston Churchill would do if you didn't want to solve the problem then set up a commission. Here if you don't want a problem so set up a new institution or a few new institutions that are supposed to solve the problems that are accumulated. The law sees this very trend, and that is the tendency in both existing institutions and existing laws that recognise that common thought, hence the generalised tendency that there is no trust in the institutions, but then it goes so far as to resolve that it itself fully undermines any trust in the institutions. So instead of strengthening those institutions that are weak he simply abolishes them and sends a message that he agrees with the people that these institutions are bad, thus getting points in elections, votes, but in principle they don't even think about solving the problem, it's only about the rating of course. So the problem is like everyone said, I'm not going to repeat it, the centralization of the system first problem, the second problem is not to solve the biggest problem it's the overload of workers in social protection, especially administrative obligations, so it's exactly the opposite of what is done, to give trust to these workers and to strengthen their position, not to undermine new mistrust. So instead of the current social care centres, the Croatian Institute for Social Work will be established. The Institute is probably chosen for this reason because it is thought to seduce ad act problems rather than solve, the Institute is composed of a central service and 21 districtal assignments by county so far the social care centres will become the district offices of this mega-institutional institution, and branches of the current centres will turn into its branches. It's also crucial to use a nice regressive word to call it an outpost, the association is immediately to bring someone in, not to solve something. Otherwise, Ana Côte d’Ivoire for people with disabilities was nice to notice that this centralization really has the sound of bureaucratic distance and the treatment of administrative rules. That's what I'd say if maybe the best description of this reform is that, taking control, the central system that's going to solve all the problems now, but it's not known in what way if it doesn't trust its employees. The Institute will assume the powers and professional jobs of the current centres, in other words the centres have received an unaccompanied assessment from the ministry for their work so far. Centralisation is that many have noted and counter-constitutional because it prescribes that the units are local self-government and that perform the work of the local district. Social workers have warned and also called for the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which discusses this constitutional provision. The profession notes that the right path of reform would be to enable centres, meaning that they are naturally full of good, high-quality professionals, structural problems, means problems in people who can't implement certain things, but the problem is really structural, lack of material capacity, overload with administrative affairs, etc., means that the profession still believes in itself and say that the path of reform would be to allow centres to influence the creation of social programmes at local level, given the needs of local environments. On the other hand, which shows that this is not the HDZ's intention and that really doubts about its workers means in social centres, which is the establishment of a committee to decide on the basis of complaints. So it is already said, it is a new body that should address the basis of complaints from parties which were not satisfied with previous answers by the Ministry regarding services provided, procedures or failures by workers in the field of social protection, etc., so the law stipulates that the commission consists of representatives of the Ministry and citizens themselves whether they were partly proposed by civil society organisations or responded to a public call themselves. In other words, the introduction of a commission institute gives trust to a coma, unprofessional persons. So people who aren't in the profession. Instead of giving authority to centres, experts may be controlling each other. I think they're reacting to some irregularities, we, I mean here the ministry is really sending a message that it doesn't trust the social workers themselves. And here at the Commission Institute, there are non-experts who are going to evaluate work, and I really think that profession says it's a degradation of systems and professions, and it also warns that there is no such body anywhere in any area of public administration. And that such a legal solution actually encourages what the problem is, is really a problem, and that is the mistrust of citizens in social care experts and in the roof ministry. The third mega institution that is established here and again interesting name is the Academy of Social Care. As soon as I hear it, I have to say from the scientific system when we hear the word of the academy, I immediately waved for, for the revolver as it's said, so you immediately have a negative reaction because the expression of the academy has gotten so far apart from its original meaning of the academy are the smaller the institution, the more important it is to be called the academy. So there's another meaning here besides these beautiful expressions of the institute, we also have an academy to run. Here the academy has now shown up as an alternative institution again, and again the question of what is missing from existing institutions. So the academy is an institution for education, for new education, etc. What is missing from existing institutions? So far, education has been conducted by the study of social work, the resolution ministry, civil society organisations, and social protection institutions themselves, the Croatian Association and the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, I think who, it has been given the authority to rule them and set up a new institution that is now called the Megaloma Academy. So all those social workers who have acquired additional knowledge so far, the skills in this demanding activity have somehow been given a shower. New institutions, outposts and institutions will now solve everything at once, but beyond them and their expertise. And at the end of the day, we have the abolition of family homes, and I don't have time to talk about it anymore, but I think both colleagues and colleagues have said enough drowning from the hollow to empty in the short term.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72475	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72476	So, in this individual debate, I will refer to the part that I consider the basis of the Social Care Act and which I consider the most problematic in the basis of this legislative proposal, so I am opening up the question of who writes the laws at all and how something so discriminatory can come to us for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. So the thing that needs to be redefined is point 11 paragraph 12. The concept of a person unable to work. Therefore, the person fully incapable of working under this legal proposal is a person over 65 years of age, a child up to the age of 15 or a person who is temporarily or permanently unable to engage in work processes according to the rules on skills and skills methodologies. As people of older age, older than 65. who even recognizes our Labour Law found here qualified as fully incompetent to work, who wrote it? How is it possible that a legal proposal contains such a discriminatory provision, and who will answer for it? I really hope that this is the first reading of the law, that the proposal will be a little bit more serious in the second reading, but I still can't understand how at all this, such a syntagma so casually and thoughtlessly found in, not any legislative proposal that might not have thought of a certain category because it was engaged in cars on the road or something else, but rather in a legal proposal relating to a system of social care that should first be written by those who are aware of different categories of the population that use the social care system and should be treated with particular respect, and then there are clear all other problems arising from this legislative proposal because if someone is not clear what people are older than life, then how can we expect that anything further in the law could be worked out in a legal and socially satisfying way. Another definition that is equally controversial is the definition of persons with disabilities, which states that it is a person who has long-term physical, mental, intellectual and sensory damages as interacting with different obstacles can prevent its full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with people without disabilities. Where did this definition come from, is it in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and what about the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders? It is also necessary to pay particular attention to the article. Article 10(4) relating to persons with disabilities who are said to have the right to participate and to give an opinion in the procedures in which they decide on their rights and interests in accordance with their own options. Who will decide if a person is able to decide or give opinions? This is an extremely important issue through which in this form of legal proposals cannot be easily overcome because it will actually tell all about the rights of those who are deprived of their business abilities. So, that part in this legislative proposal, Art. 4. The 10th needs to be questioned again. Of course, the principle issues of whether we are even aware that persons with mental disorders are still in psychiatric institutions not because they need to be there but who do not have adequate social care and the fact that this law does not solve and at all control homes and centres where we have situations where people are bound by bed because they do not have enough carers and persons who would regularly follow them, this legal proposal does not solve it in this law. And within the Psychotherapy Act, it is said that persons cannot commit any crime because they are automatically disqualified if they have received a powerful verdict and now as intuitively as it sounds, the logical legal question is whether it is true for all regulated professions or we are doing a certain exception here. So I'm going to conclude, the Household Act, that's what I said and in the debate on behalf of the club in general, except for this rise in material status, does not solve the basic issues and problems that foster parents face and therefore the opportunity to improve their status in general is actually missed. In conclusion, I can only say that there are too many basic problems here to be able to discuss the content of these legal proposals in quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72477	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72478	Fellow Members and colleagues, well-assembled institutions are one of the preconditions for successful and effective social care activities. The second condition is well-trained employees who carry out their work under appropriate working conditions and for appropriate remuneration, of course not, and the third condition is that the fees and other forms of assistance to users are appropriate amounts and content. This package of 7 laws does not deal with employees, and not so much about rights and social services, it only touches them, and is dominantly dealing with the way the social security system is set up. In principle, it would be okay if, as a first step towards reforming the social security system, it started from the establishment of institutions, but in that case, changes to the institutional framework should have been implemented in a more quality and more transparent manner. Through this package of laws, especially from the Social Care Act, then from those other laws in that section relating to the work of different chambers, it is not quite clear, nor is it fully worked out that the powers and tasks of the ministry itself, and what are the powers and tasks of other bodies in the system. The largest range of jobs has been allocated to the new body that will be established, which is the Croatian Institute for Social Care, where preventive tasks will be carried out by family centres and the educational Academy of Social Care. Family centers and academia are unnecessary as separate independent units. The formation of one roof body instead of 80 independent social care centres could in principle achieve certain positive effects, if nothing else with one director and one board of directors would reduce significant corruption risks. However, such a goal and such a benefit may be multiplely annulled if the system is bureaucratized and becomes less accessible to end users, and that is exactly what will seem to happen. So, even in that part that's just a skeleton, it's obvious that the ministry hasn't been leveled. The new bodies established in the legal form of the structure are institutions. All these institutions are managed by the Administrative Council, and these administrative councils are elected by the state or local government, which means politics, and it already shows that their decisions and actions will be largely extended by the hands of some political interests and by a small part the implementation of social measures and social policies. Such administrative councils should elect directors in public tenders. In doing so, only social care directors shall be governed by the provision that, if such functions occur when they are members of the Board of Directors, they should be excluded from the further procedure of their own choice or appointment. At the same time, however, such a similar rule does not exist, for example, in relation to the institution or any other institution, although it is in itself a good anti-corruption measure. Therefore, other anti-corruption mechanisms can be seen in the part where restrictions on the performance of competitive activities in private companies or institutions are prescribed. Again, we have a provision for only one body, and it has been deliberately or carelessly left out with everyone else. I believe that all the governance structures of all the bodies established by either the state or the unit of local and regional self-government should be officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but in all likelihood, it does not even occur to anyone that it is prescribed, it will obviously refer only to the director of the new Croatian Institute of Social Care, but it is insufficient and wrong because every management function in the nature of things carries with it a strong corruption risk. A particular problem is the formation and role of chambers in relation to all the chambers that exist within our legal system, and I think that we should significantly change their approach and redefine their status, but it is really not an easy or simple task, but the minimum that could still be achieved is that even if those chambers that fall under the partial one-off ministry have equal treatment, not that each one has its own specificity. But this is when we see how the treatment chambers within the social security system are seen that the resolution minister didn't even have the knowledge and needy breadth. I hope that until the second reading at least part of the comments and suggestions received will be respected, but judging by how you ignored them so far, I think there is hope in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72479	We have several replicas, do not leave, is the first respected representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72480	My colleague Oreshković, here is how you comment that we are treating social care and all other institutions dealing with foster care, and psychotherapy and so on in such a way that we have created a chaos of debate here because we have united just like this ministry all of what it took to get a separate time to talk in HS in order to literally set it off in one afternoon, so that we can move on and then the minister can even defend these laws here or convince us that he really cares about a system that deals with sensitive social groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72481	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72482	Thank you, colleague Rasudic. I've said it twice here today, so I'm going to do it for you specifically for the third time. I think it is a disgrace above all to the president of HS who has allowed the legislative role of parliament to be demoted in this way, but at the same time it is a rude insult and Croatian citizens because we are actually 7 times prevented from pointing out all the shortcomings and all the shortcomings of each of the individual laws that should be on the agenda separately. I also said that this shows only how Andrej Plenkovic sees himself, which is that he can absolutely do anything, so citizens should ultimately be grateful that he gives them something and gives them as a charity, but the social security system that should be one of the main constitutional features is essentially not improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72483	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72484	Thank you, Vice President. Well, after your debate, it would only be about one more problem, and it would be in a completely unregulated and uncontrollable area of the Life Support Treaty, which today was very little talk about why in practice there are frequent abuses, and at the expense of the elderly who remain without real estate and without necessary help. And this problem could be solved, let's say, that the status of the care provider for the elderly expands to, say, neighbors and others because it's one way to prevent the abuse of life support institutes. If this were put under the supervision of social care, the system would have control over that gray zone. What is beyond and also necessary is the introduction of a register of these contracts to make a review of these contracts backwards, for example for 15 years. There are a lot of unemployed women who are already working on, on black jobs without any control and legalization of care for the elderly would profit both users and society, wouldn't they?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72485	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72486	Thank you, colleague. Here, too, as a former lawyer, I can say from some professional experience that both life support contracts and life support contracts are a good institute that allows those who do not have their own family care to sort of take care of and provide for, for old days and that by introducing any restrictions sometimes we actually do more harm to users than we really do to help them and what we protect them because real estate is the only thing they can ensure that someone will care about them. And the second question is, so I'm in favour of making as little restrictions as possible on who can conclude such a contract, and the second question is how the state will ensure effective control, whether the users get the value of the money or the value of the real estate, and whether someone has concluded such a contract with an honest intention to take care of, the user or to use it in some way in a situation where he's actually powerless.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72487	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72488	My colleague Oreskovic, as you comment on the establishment of this Committee to decide on the basis of a complaint which is said to mean nowhere there is no similar body in another area of public administration. In fact, it is about the establishment of a commission or body consisting of non-expert members, so it would be some kind of institution, some citizens meaning from civil associations which is not bad in itself and the representatives of the ministry, but there is not one, no expert person who can actually see whether the complaint is established because we assume that these complaints will be related to the matter itself, means the content of what the social workers themselves are dealing with, so I'm curious whether it is true because the Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities Ana Slonješak says that there is no such body in any area of public administration or perhaps you know such an institution?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72489	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72490	Thank you. Here's my proposal: The amendment, that all provisions on this commission should simply be deleted from the law and that the institute should be given up. It's a heavy, heavy nonsens, so what does the commission serve, nothing at all, except that there are some people named for some functions, so they're going to invent their own purpose. It's a very simple thing, users have certain rights, and these rights should be clearly defined in the law itself. The bodies which decide on these rights shall be either an institution or, or other institutions shall carry out administrative proceedings. The administrative procedure has its course, it becomes a first-degree administrative body, the ministry as a secondary administrative body, after which, if the rights are not secured, it goes according to me or should be held in an administrative dispute, and will ultimately be decided by the court. What commissions and what coppers, after all, the council is here to control ministers and ministries if not, do not comply with the law, and some parafixed and fictional formations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72491	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72492	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing something called reform and social care reform. I'm afraid we've started using the word reform absolutely unacceptable because what's already on the branch is quite clear when it comes to the social care system that the system is sick and that you need to start working on its recovery, but you're not going to do the healing of that system in a way that you have gangrene, so you're going to cut off a little finger than you're going to do it in the way that you need to do it. It is interesting to discuss this at a time when two former ministers, the current minister and two state secretaries who are in continuum are sitting in the assembly. What we really want to say is what we really want, what content we want, because if we go in shape, and we go in shape, we won't come to the content because what we are discussing here and what we are saying with this law, the Social Care Act is actually meant to be a different form, and that is where we forget users, the interest of users and forget what is the essence of social workers, the social workers who have to do and who have to swim in all of it, and when we see the objections that we have been dissatisfaction with all of them. We have the dissatisfaction of people working in the system, we have the dissatisfaction of legal experts, we have the dissatisfaction of science, and the only one who seems satisfied with this is HDZ. I guess that's it, but they're the only ones who are happy, and that's where things are going to work, that's what we'll see. I have suggested that somewhere early this year it be proposed and come into the parliamentary procedure something that I then called that, that the minister is talking about reforming the social care system, I have received the government's natural response that all this should not go together and that it should not go away and that, in response to the government itself, it says that it plans to invest 5.5 billion kuna, which includes funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and funds from the European funds, God forbid. You who are deep in that system can only say God give us the results of all this, but the results I'm afraid we won't. If we have a mess and we have to work in this mess, so we can't solve this mess with a new mess, so this commission that is an independent body that will decide on complaints from citizens after they've exhausted all the possibilities provided by law. You sometimes feel like you've seen everything in your life, but when you've seen everything, there's nothing you can't imagine. How do you think it works, how do you think a social worker is going to feel so I'm always talking about it with a special feeling, my sister is a social worker, I've been listening to what's in the system so far, as in the system, she's been dealing with a series of things, we have a special real empathy towards everything, this job, everyone thinks his job is the hardest to do, but that job isn't easy to do. So, in this business the meaning of a social worker is not to print a bunch of paper and a bunch of solutions, the purpose of a social worker is to be with its users, to know about its user, because in the end we have two things that cause always, I always get a little creeped out, we have people who have been killed, who have killed, my people don't forget it, and we have both the public and all of us who first see when the mistake is somewhere seeing that social worker. He sees a social worker who was there wondering why he wasn't and when he says but I have 300 users, so I didn't get the point, it's no excuse for any of that. And now we instead of seeing and seeing how to spend our resources, how to get rid of all those administrative procedures, we're introducing some commission. This commission will appoint a meeting, and this commission will be responsible for its work, this assembly, and this commission will assess something. My people, please, don't mess up with the mess. Don't introduce any kind of parasites that no one knows what's going to happen. Don't bring in those social workers that I really have a special empathy for, and I think it's extremely difficult for someone to actually question all the time, but don't do it, and it's kind of a message until the second reading, but we'll see what's going to happen in the second reading, and the foster parents are... Under the radar. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72493	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72494	I'll agree with you that it's one of the most sensitive jobs in the world to be a social worker, and often we're not even aware of the weight of the work these people face every day. However, we have a minister who, at a sensitive moment when social workers were attacked directly and did not stand in their defense, so we have a minister who did not take care of his portfolio and at a critical point did not point to the sensitivity and specificity of their work but rather to those who attacked them in the first place, while ignoring all the difamation that went towards social workers. And then how do you even expect him to hear the remarks of those same social workers that are very extensively given within this bill and all of what you are warning in your debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72495	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72496	Thank you very much. So, at one point when the minister was asked by the press if there was a certain responsibility he answered, I'll quote, lies on all of us. That's when it's good, then there's a responsible government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and when it's a bad responsibility, it's on all of us. So the system and I repeat it and I repeat, social welfare is a very sensitive system. The reform, no matter what I call reform, is not a reform that the minister has one day I don't know he's got some kind of red tie today, he's gone, so I don't know, and tomorrow he's gonna have a blue tie. We often call such things reform, you know, something that's external, something that's not essential, reforms go fundamentally. We need to know what we want, so we need to set ourselves some goals and then get to those goals. The minister obviously takes it lightly, but there is continuity. There are two State Secretarys who are in the continuity of the State Secretary and who should be left and right-hand ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72497	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72498	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you because instead of the desired and requested discharge of the new Social Care Act, new additional unnecessary administrative burdens for employees appear, and for users a complicated and confusing protocol in the exercise of rights and services. The services offered, or their content, method of delivery, as well as the criteria of their recognition, are underdeveloped, confusing in certain segments, and therefore difficult to implement, or inexecutable, primarily due to the lack of licensed experts or other service providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72499	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72500	Thank you very much. So, in public space when it comes to a set of laws, people you can't say are politicians, or that they're now coming to their 3-4 or 5 minutes of fame are going to say something more powerful than people who are deep in that system and who know something about it and point to the problems they have. I always think you should listen to them and make some decisions that are reasonable. If people who are in the system all the time point to the fact that they've turned into administrators, that they've been using too much time on a series of things to be, and on the other hand there's not one law that we don't have digitization about, so this is it, then the question is that there's something wrong in the system, and we all know that there's no one in this assembly who wouldn't want to be faster, more pulsing and anything else, but let's just listen a little bit and see, stubbornness never led to anything, something useful and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72501	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72502	Here's how I didn't get here in my presentation, so I'm going to reveal to you some shocking information about how, under this law, we're not going to read it because it's not in this law, we're going to solve the abolition of family homes. In fact, there's another law that this government is now writing, it's the Labour Act, and there's a whole new chapter called work at a separate place of work, and they've come up with a nice idea of how we're going to work it out. Mostly workers will be, they will be offered to coordinate work and family obligations in a way that they can work at home in a separate place and in the case of parental obligations towards children until the age of 8. Live or provide personal care to a person who, for a serious health reason, needs a member of a rope family, etc., so we will provide care to our mothers and fathers, which family centres will no longer provide, and that will somehow be agreed with the employer. This someone is commenting here is the same resor, so the same is the Ministry of Labour and Social We will only now join the work and social care as one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72503	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72504	Thank you very much for your question for the simple reason that, of course, in those five minutes, you don't succeed in all the things you have been told, so I haven't even been able to say a few things when it comes to old people, so the question is, at all, what does an old man mean to you today? They're going to show us this population list exactly how old we are, they're going to show how old we are and how much care we care about them is absolutely and should be different than they are. So, I'd like to get out of this law or prepare this one to see what we actually want. The point of the elderly, so the point is that people live where they lived as long as they can, so here we have help in the house, we have different visions. I once 10 years ago, maybe more, was no secret in Israel, they have at all that once a week you help, carry groceries and everything else, even talk to people who are able to live where they are. We are not considering it at all, we are not talking about it, and the topic is at home at all for the old and the powerless is a special topic, which requires another discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72505	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72506	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow MPs, here you have mentioned the reform many times and, of course, one is provoked not to say underestimatingly so called Minister and Secretary of State, the minister is working on the color of the tie. I ask you how your government did reforms, how did the Minister of Social Welfare at the time of your government do reforms, what did she leave behind? Here are the points of the Professor. It's a burn. He was an SDP government official. As a longtime social worker, I followed the work of one and the other, which he left that point here for us in the welfare system? You're all full of compassion for social workers. Did any of you raise your voice, and then he felt sorry for them when the media had tampered with them for three months, calling them biased, that they were bribed, that there was a group of social workers, none of you raised a voice. Did anyone shed a tear after the colleagues we buried in Djakov? And we don't know what social care is, we've been working for years. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72507	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72508	My colleague Murganic, you don't need to get angry... You don't need to get angry. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, from the government, in the government where I've been so far, this is the third government, and when you don't have any arguments or anything, you always call yourself what you've done and what you've left behind, and now we've got to solve something else. [["Peace, peace, peace please."]] This is about continuity that's been for a while. It's me, the secretary of state was also your secretary of state, so what we were expecting was a system going one step forward. You're not going to mess up the system with a mess. And by the way, whoever put the tear down or didn't put it down, every time I talk from this pay phone, and it's not a problem in the media either, we talked about social workers, and if you listened to me rightly, I said it wasn't easy for them, that on the one hand, every time they're guilty, and on the other hand we have murdered social workers. Therefore, we need to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72509	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72510	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you have touched in your debate exactly what is the essence of this call reform. The point of this reform is to amend the Social Welfare Act on the one hand and on the other hand the Household Act plus these 5 chamber laws. But you also confirmed in your debate that this process of adoption is not at all inclusive and not at all transparent, and it is no wonder that then former Minister Murganic is now in a heat because it is clear that today we are discussing the amendments to the Social Care Act that she started in 2018, are you talking about this continuity, so it was stopped, so the commission did not meet, so new elections came to us, so we were announced, so Minister Bedekovic arrived, and she was not allowed to do it because of the election, and then came tragedy one, second, third, and then Minister Aladrovic had to bring about a reform in a hurry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72511	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72512	Thank you very much for asking. So let's all think about it together. The welfare system is a sensitive system and the birds on the branch know that something is wrong, but my people, so we're talking about some kind of continuity of government, so don't tell me how long it takes 10, 12, 15 to do something. So now we're already talking about the continuity of the 6th year, so it could've been done, so it could've been with something, so it could've changed and complemented, but it couldn't. So what I'm stressing all the time and I'm going to point out, you can't solve this mess with a mess. But what's the point? You have 1,000 social workers on 600,000 users and there's the beginning and the end of everything. You can make up that the body is called one or the other, but until we have no more employees, until we make it easy for the administrative section to move because there are so many of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72513	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Martina Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72514	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here's the last debate that prompted me to think about whether to look at the system from the context of the social worker or from the system, the system where I'm today as a parliamentary representative. But the fact that here I will really have to return to the role of former social worker and actually describe what a social worker in the adult department is doing and how he is dealing with all those burning problems and challenges right now in the system. The growing number of older people, which leads of course to a greater need on the ground, is the increased submission of requests for help in the home by older people, persons with disabilities, especially those in spatially isolated areas, the growing number of requests for a personal disability, the allowance for assistance and care. In all these procedures, it is also necessary to hear the hearing of child restraint officers who are rarely abroad, and therefore their statement of the possibility of abstention is also long awaited. In the last few years, the number of all these rights has increased several times in the period since 5 g. And more. The number of social workers who carry out these procedures is equal to or employed by one or two more, I don't know which, I don't know what number. However, the number of social workers if you hire them and one or two professional workers per welfare centre tomorrow will not contribute to the absolute quality of the service, meaning regardless of these announced 200 or 300 employees, it will not lead to the quality of the service if you do not reduce the means of public authority and the overload of the welfare system. So we come to a lack of time when social workers should be supporting older people, people with disabilities, users of these rights, given that the huge amount of cases are being solved. It loses the sense of a really social worker for what young people are being educated today, which is the empowerment of users who are most often carried out through conversation and support and the social worker is focused on, to receive requests, to receive the necessary evidence of the collection of all possible statements from witnesses, abstentions, meaning resolving and adopting administrative procedures certainly can be done by an administrative lawyer or a lawyer. So the social worker today also faces a review of existing rights and recognition of new rights, so that every year administrative procedures are becoming increasingly occupied by writing a solution while there is less and less time for direct work with users, and especially since they are more and more remote to work on the ground, which is increasingly possible in social care centres, and it is more and more often needed. As the social workers' chamber and social workers' associations believe, we believe that the separation of allowances and personal disability should be singled out as much as the law expects additional examinations and the opening of new administrative procedures, given that in the case of personal disability and allowances, a price change of 4,000 kuna is expected. To conclude, in addition to carrying out new procedures and procedures for reviewing existing rights for the need for the control of social workers, there is still a need for review for this new law. All this administration can be carried out outside the social care system, and the social care system should be dealt with by empowering users, involving the community and strengthening support through outside the institutional service and providing accommodation. Minister, you keep saying you don't have a parallel system that could now accept all these demands and administer all these rights. That's incorrect. Do a staff analysis in your now portfolio where you also have a pension system that certainly has space to administer certain jobs, and really leave social work to social workers and professionals in centres. It is also a major challenge to work with unsatisfactory users who require greater engagement, especially with people with mental difficulties or dementia. In the situation of accommodation of elderly people, and especially persons with dementia, a social worker is in need of adequate accommodation, homes are re-tracted, spatial and human beings are not adequate for people who suffer from dementia, and on the other hand mental illness homes do not receive such persons with dementia and psycho-organic syndrome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72515	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72516	Dear colleagues, you have experience in practice so that I believe you can look quality at this issue. And I was warning myself that this part of the social care system can't accept people with mental problems, so they actually stay in institutions and when they shouldn't be. However, I am interested in something else, how do you comment on the fact that within this legislative proposal, the legislator has in one discriminatory and problematic way defined persons of older age in general, we can say limited in view of their working ability, and has vaguely defined persons with disabilities in relation to their rights and possibilities and how can we expect that, starting already, we can have quality regulation of their rights, or does it write laws relating to social work, those who really know who are the users of this scheme?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72517	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72518	Thank you. Well, here's what we all got today is the impression of who actually writes this Social Care Act and this reform that has been prepared, certainly not those people who came forward in the comments of 2400, but it was exclusively a draft of a ministry or certain associates who only received support in the directors he chose or who were directors thanks to it. Not everyone else actually participated in the creation of this legal proposal. And what I also agree with you, for example in the Household Law, where it is prescribed that a person older than 65. He can't be a foster parent anymore. So, I think it's certainly bad because if a person is 65, and according to the expert's assessment, he can still do these jobs, I don't think he should be limited in these situations of age.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72519	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72520	Here is colleague Vlašić Iljkić, as you comment on the formation and whether there is a need and justification for the formation and establishment of the academy of the so-called institutions, if we take into account the fact that so far we have received means from the university, social work, or from the resolution ministry or from the social workers themselves or from the chamber of social workers, whether these institutions are extinct, should we close them down, in which way we justify new institutions now, so I also asked my colleague Oreskovic for the commission because she is an expert in this dimension means law, and you are professionally in social work, how experts comment these new institutions and are they necessary?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72521	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72522	Thank you. I think that actually starting an academy is also an additional centralization, an attempt to actually influence the education of professionals from one roof approach. We know what is best in the field of each of the social care centres and every expert who works equally in the social care system, which is actually absolutely wrong. So far, the director could, of course, co-ordinate with the ministry, provide his professional education workers who he thinks he needs most. So why unify education at the level of Croatia if we, on the ground at a particular social care centre, do not need those educations but need some others. So the academy is this centralization of services, actually, which is a completely wrong approach in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72523	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72524	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm going to ask you something now to get back into the social worker's shoes or the principal's shoes that you were, and this law provides for a commission, a very unusual name, a very unusual way of working, and we haven't had a chance to see it in any other law so far. I don't see any reason then in any other law after all the other funds are used we don't have any commissions that will then reassess whether they've all worked before or not. You must have been contacted by social workers, if anything by your former colleagues. What they have, what they feel when they read it in the law, what they talk about and what they think about it. Well, it would be good for them to listen to those who work every day, who do the work. I'm really stressing that this is a very demanding and difficult job. How do they experience when we decide in one law to introduce such a parasite?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72525	Thank you. Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72526	So this parasite as you say not only is it a weight and damage for a social worker who feels demoted on the ground, but it is actually a shower and a ministry, because he admits that he is not capable of solving the problem at a lower level, at his level, but he needs someone who will tell him whether his choice of work or work is going in the right direction. It's devastating absolutely. So someone who, we now have in the welfare system, means complaints or the principal or the ministry to whom the social worker is obliged to respond, or we as the Social Care Center are obliged to manifest ourselves on certain matters of the ministry. And now it exists and the ministry is who can apply certain tools and instructions to both the director and the director to the professional worker unless he does his job well. So, and this commission is makeup, to please a certain public who doesn't really have any purpose Because they're not actually going to decide on the content of the complaint, they're going to decide on the form. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72527	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72528	Dear colleagues mention the work of social workers, so I will look back at them through the Household Act. I'm sure you'll agree with me that foster parents need more professional support, both for foster children and for various supervisory and education. Too often, the foster parents themselves burn us down because they spend too much energy and then give up foster care. The current number of social workers who are both their advisory and supervisory body as much as they want and their efforts simply do not get to work with them. Do you have a model that would be easier for both foster and social workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72529	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72530	It's certainly what the ministry missed out on, and it's harmful to promote foster care after what we had last where it meant the foster parent was the one who took care of the little girl until she came back to the biological family again, so in that case we as the ministry missed the opportunity to actually explain to the public what the role of the fosterer was, which is their obligation, which is their actual concern and the system that the fosterer can and which is its support. Because everyone after this case normally has an even smaller motive in public, because it feels like people don't have a role to play and they don't have the support in the system that they should have. What it certainly takes for foster parents to have sufficient support is to talk again about the redundancy of social workers, to deal with foster parents, users who need to visit every six months, and not arrive and simply re-occur with the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72531	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Iljkić Vlasic, in your address and during discussions on committees and here at the plenary session, I see the idea that you are fighting for the rights of social workers that I absolutely welcome, but it seems to me that you are too critical that you are in this balance between a politician and a social worker, somehow dominated by this relationship and the performance of a politician. I think that the separation and creation of a family centre is very much the Centre for Social Welfare facilitates certain obligations, the reduction of jurisdiction, the dispensation of public authority, the issue of social guidance instead of the implementation of the administrative procedure are all the things mentioned in this new law. And only in the end, so what you're saying is one, two. Over the past few months, 200 new professionals in centres and 145 in social care institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72533	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72534	Yes, but these 200 professional workers are in fact one professional worker in the Centre for Social Care and possibly another professional worker employed in a risky period, while at the same time non-reforestation of the system. So we didn't do anything. The social worker in the Department of Adults will have 20 items less, will redistribute them five to the new one. So what we have is the discharge of a social worker who's going to have 20 less cases. As for the Family Center, he was once as a public institution ten years ago, then attached to the Social Care Center as a branch and now re-separated. So it will not play its part until we link this family centre to the meaning of the education and health sector in terms of strengthening inter-resorship cooperation. We will not fall with any voluntary users unless we introduce something into the regulations regarding inter-resorial cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72535	The following will be spoken by a respected representative, Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72536	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's already a lot of things being said about this set of laws, and it's awkward to actually comment on 7, 8 laws all of a sudden. Here I am only going to stay on two topics. One is the Household Act. So it has already been commented here that this Amendment to the Household Act does not foresee, so the introduction of life partners and informal life partners into the law even though the Constitutional Court in its decision ordered that they should not be discriminated against. Moreover, it did not specify that, explicitly, it had been ordered to amend the Household Act, so it had already established that the competent authorities were obliged to interpret, apply the provisions in such a way as to enable all persons under equal conditions to participate in the public service of foster care, regardless of whether a potential fosterer lives in a life or in an informal life partnership. But what is likely to happen on the ground, so the purpose of their decision is that there is no discrimination, and everything is now left at the direction of the ministry sent to the Social Care Centres. Thus, this instruction can in some ways be variable, and life partners are out of the law. This guidance can be interpreted in different ways, changed depending on the political structure of the ministry, and if it were introduced into the law, it would be unequivocal, it would also have parliamentary legitimacy and could not be arbitrarily changed. So it's fate and life partners in the end, but mostly children in such foster families, so it depends on the goodwill of someone in the ministry until life partners are explicitly stated in the law. So that's one problem with the Household Act. The other two laws I'm going to comment on are the Law on psychological activity and psychotherapy. As I said in the replica, I'm going to use the subject of psychology and psychotherapy here at first. Let me mention today here's the main topic, which is mental health, it says, is the mental health of the nation above all mental health of children, especially after this pandemic that has proven to affect children and adolescents and their mental health. I will once again warn you of the fact that from Dubrovnik or from Prevlaka to Zagreb you do not have beds in the hospital where children of adolescents with mental problems can lie. So, a child with any mental problems is condemned to lie in a room with adults, so there are no psychiatrists, so it's not a topic, so it's about medicine, but here I'm going to take this opportunity to point out once again that these children are either condemned or here are lying in rooms with adults or their parents depending on their financial opportunities running to Osijek, running to Zagreb which are also burdened and not having enough capacity and taking care of those children. To go back to this law, therefore the existing law is limited as I said access to psychotherapy only to certain university studies. These are medicine, psychology, social work, educational rehabilitation, social pedagogy, pedagoggy of the Logopedia. And so this law shows up a new study of psychotherapy prodeutics, and in translation this word would mean some introduction to psychotherapy. And that study can be enrolled by anyone with a degree in any college prior to that. So either a nurse, a journalist, an actress, an architect, a construction engineer, a computer engineer. So this study can become a psychotherapist. On the other hand, you have a graduate psychologist from the Faculty of Philosophy who has courses at his colleges, has colleges that give basic, basic knowledge of psychotherapy. But he must also complete this study of psychotherapy in order to get permission of the chamber and to be a psychotherapist, and he is basically a psychologist and has knowledge from that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72537	We have a replica of the esteemed advocates of the Voice and vice president of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72538	Thank you. Comrade Puljak, you said whether a child will stay at home or get a warm family home even in the community of life partners or informal life partners depends on the good will of the ministry. No good will of the ministry, no. Why? When did the verdict of Kozic and Šegot get in the Administrative Court, what did the ministry do? Obstructed, he wrote a complaint to disable them even after the verdict. When the Constitutional Court said what the ministry is now doing again, it proposed in the Assembly a law that is totally contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. No good will in that is the problem. But it's not a matter of goodwill, it's respect for the Constitution and other laws that are among other things lex specialis in this part, and it's the Life Partnership Act that I'm not talking about breaking two more laws, the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. Tragically, it allows itself the most legislative body that is the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72539	Councilwoman Puljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72540	Here, I couldn't agree more. That is why I said, although we have heard here excuses that there is no saying in the Constitutional Court's decision that the Household Act must be amended. The point of their decision was clear, so there is no discrimination. How do you ensure there is no discrimination? Exactly, then it does not depend on what political option is in power, which is the ministry's political option, who is the minister, as the day rose on which foot on the left or right. It is that the law explicitly states, so who can and under what conditions can be a foster parent so that he does not end up having problems that no one thinks about children at the end of the day. In the end, children suffer the most, and today the situation with foster families is that there are not enough foster families. What we're talking about is adoption problems, there's a lot of adoptors, a lot of kids or processes go on and on, this, this, that, but we're not looking at foster care. There aren't enough foster families, and now we're limiting one that is or how many they want to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72541	Thank you. And now they will speak the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72542	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed ministers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So we live for 30 years in a continuous social breakdown in population ageing and population depopulation. And all categories that are employed and engaged around the welfare system are missing are simply missing for increased quality and quality is increasing. We today should think about the social protection system, for social care is as much help as you can. Social protection is something where we set up as a border and to protect all people, the border is always tied to our budgetary opportunities. So the system requires reform, needs reform, the system is abandoned and non-transparent and overloaded as I immediately said and needs reform. Whether this reform will be good, we'll see about it successfully. But we have in this society, these 30 years, the continuity of not implementing reforms in the social system. 2002. During the time of Mr Davorko Vidovic, she was ready for reform, she did not pass. In 2009, there was a reform, it was not released at all. And now neither guilty nor obliged Minister Aladrovic has to implement this reform, which is one heavy, difficult bite and for a young minister without doubting his abilities, but also 30 years later set the system on its right feet without reform. I know, and I said that the debate on the welfare system is going to happen, because there are terrible examples of professions here, and each of them has the right to fight for themselves. But I'll be focusing on end-users. And one part of the debate ate up the situation, or announcement of the abolition of family homes. I think it's a story without precedent and there was no reason to go with such a story. I personally believe that it was necessary to beg first and separate the grain from the weeds because I am sure of great family homes, there are those who, with little corrections, could be set into standards and there are those who are bad, who need to be banned and licensed to understand each other. Of course it's easy to figure this out. We need to find solutions. This is one of the solutions. Perhaps the solution to turning them into institutions and in some other ways should be considered, but in any case, care should be taken of the ultimate price for the user. In the family homes are situated people at the price of three and a half to four and a half thousand kuna at most. Private homes are housed from 7 to 10 000 as anyone can at that price, and the privileged homes are decentralised enough and their pension is sufficient. Because the state gives two and a half or how much it gives decentralised funds. So here we have one form of intransparency. So, it should be open here to all options, but not to judge one institution in which the Social Care Centres also prayed to receive the proteges because they had no place with them, because our capacities of decentralised homes and private homes were either expensive or insufficient. There'd be a lot to talk about here. I'll just tell you about one phenomenon that's inadmissible. It's illegal. We have 54 reconnaissances this year based on tips of illegal accommodations, illegal homes where surveillance comes in, so he writes his own reconnaissance, they're banned, and they're working on it. They find a good lawyer and work on it. Imagine that happens in one Germany. Would ever that owner of such an illegal home that shouldn't exist or the one that exists and does the wrong thing dared to request a re-licence to do the same job. No, you wouldn't. They're still working with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72543	Now we have replicas. The first is the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72544	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. You said the minister was neither guilty nor obliged to carry out the reform. Of course, it is due because it has been promising this for three years at least, its predecessors and earlier reform of the social care system, and it is indeed something that is expected by both users and is much more expected with the announced reform. And really what we're seeing now isn't written, and all we had to do was listen to the profession, it meant what we said to the profession, the working group, what the working group was thinking for three years at the end wasn't adopted. They got the draft before the announcement on their own, and it's absolutely not what the profession offered. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72545	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72546	Well, look, I said neither guilty nor debtor because I know as well as you that it is not his waist. Okay. It's one thing to make promises and what's in the government program, and that's what the minister has to do, there's no dilemma. If you ask me personally what I would do if I were him, I would now stop at the ball and say, "Ma'am, if you'll just go ahead and get your head together, find the best solution." We've got this frame, we've got so much money, there's no simmering, there's, there's a fair, transparent solution. There can be no greater support for home accommodation in one county, in another smaller, there can be no non-transparentity according to the territorial principle and different practices. But we should sit down together and look at all the participants in this social care of their advantages, but also their shortcomings. Well, then maybe you'd turn out to be a good system out there. But it takes a lot, a lot, a lot of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72547	Thank you. Representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72548	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I'll agree with you. When you talk about family homes with your opinion that you do not need to generalize, I agree with you and I really agree that when it comes to family homes, you should separate the grain from the weeds. So here we have really great examples. We have examples of homes where there is space and desire to improve. Unfortunately, we have family homes that should be closed at the moment. And you were talking about inspection with illegal service providers. This year 54, 2020, 57 where we had cases where illegal providers wouldn't even allow entry into a family home. So, three illegal providers wouldn't allow us to enter the home at all. Imagine if it happened in one of Germany? And that is why the transformation of family homes that are scheduled for five years and that deadline can be considered. You need to give time to get family homes, therefore, transform into suitable homes for our users. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72549	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72550	Look, thank you for understanding, but I have a very special attitude. I'm always up for the variant and, and. what's healthy remains, what's wrong, but also give them a chance to deal with something else, or to deal with it the same way. Either that they are under greater control or that they are going into an investment for an institution because they are poor accommodation facilities and the standard of services itself, etc. But I didn't do this without saying it wrong because it happened, there was one or two really unfortunate cases, really overkilling the number of users, really because the responsibility of the ministry itself is not just because there's no control. So I wouldn't judge on two, three cases and say it's wrong, but I'd leave what's right, and what's wrong would make me change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72551	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Hrelja, I think it would certainly be part of the social reform that you have succeeded in, so an increase in censorship for additional health insurance involving 120,000 people. People of older age are a venerable group and therefore I understand your talk about family homes. counterpart Bedekovic said, therefore the number of inspectors in the social care system has been increased by 100%. In 2020, 119 supervision was in family homes, and so far in 2021. 443. In 2020, as much as 50% got some solution and some measure, and now that number is still smaller. And I agree with you that we can't look at family homes based on some tragic cases that happened in general. I don't know how much that would cost, and it would certainly cost that transformation a lot, so I hope that between the first and second readings there will be some adjustments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72553	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72554	Thank you exactly for agreeing on things, not all should be tried on one or two cases. And secondly, I'd say what I said at the beginning of your replica is that an increase in censorship is social care. I would say that it is more social protection and that it is a fight against poverty in the Republic of Croatia and that it is something that is also defined in the Anti-poverty Strategy 2014 and the 20th and that we have only just now implemented it. And that's not the end of it. You know that Monday or Tuesday should be the alignment of those censors and those censors should be another 50 kuna. And that's why I'm personally very proud of what we finally did, because it was a long time ago, but better ever than never.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72555	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72556	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, here you have said yourself that since 2000 it has been trying to make a law. Whether there was any courage, knowledge, but it's many years. It's a little scary even to look behind you how many years it took for someone to get the courage to do it. Listening to colleagues from the SDP one and two, they sat down for a pay phone, came to point out something that they might not understand themselves why it never happened. We can come out when they get out, they're, uh, families brought their parents into the community that they say is no good. And now I'm interested in how this one idea exists that they have, that really through these two readings could be as high-quality as possible, better, because we never know where they're going to come and escalate such a sensitive area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72557	Before you answer, colleague Hajdukovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72558	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. My colleague Deur keeps talking as his president about SDP one and two. Maybe you should talk about HDZ one, a criminal organization that's been convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72559	Okay. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72560	.../Intruder Hajdukovic: And with that smile, that with that smile of a colleague you are a member of a criminal organization. What do you want me to sit down?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72561	And you know very well that this has nothing to do with it, so I'm giving you a warning based on article 239.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72562	.../Intruder Hajdukovic: What shall I sit down? Sit down. Shame on you fellows! You're a member of a criminal organization, not me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72563	On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. On the basis of Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72564	Come on! Why? Vice President, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72565	Because you kept talking even though I warned you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72566	You didn't warn me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72567	Yes, I've warned you twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72568	Why didn't you warn a fellow who was waving his hand down? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72569	I warned you twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72570	I want to say something about LGBT rights later. That's what you're gonna deny me, buddy? You're gonna deny me that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72571	You want me to...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72572	You're gonna deny me that? All right, all right, all right. All right, all But then be responsible for this in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72573	You can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72574	I will say that HDZ has prevented me from saying what I think, because you question that HDZ has been ruled. He's been convicted!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72575	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'm giving you a measure of distance from today's session. You won't get anything by yelling in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72576	He's been convicted! You're a member of a criminal organization. You will take away my word for me, you will take away my word when I say what the Croatian courts have ruled. Well, shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72577	I will. I will because you don't yell at the Parliament!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72578	Shame on you! Come on, kick me out now. Let the guards come, let them throw me out. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72579	Well, look at you! Take a look at yourself, and the Croatian people are looking at you and they're all thinking about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72580	A colleague of yours who's a member of the criminal organization is watching you too. And that's where we're gonna stop!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72581	I'm asking you to come out, I asked you to. Well, I said mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72582	... [[Intruder Hajdukovic, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72583	Here, you're also a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72584	Dear Vice President, the Rules of Procedure of Article 237 and Article 238. You hurt him unfortunately, and you hurt him this time. The point is that a colleague, a member of parliament, was able to say in his injury to the Rules of Procedure what he intended to say, and then you were to take away his word or warn him. You interrupted him and you hurt the Rules of Procedure. So, please article 238 says we have to run...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72585	.../Intruder Reiner: colleagues Posavec-Krivec.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72586	...that we must lead. Here's what you're doing to me right now. You're doing the same thing to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72587	You're out of time. What are you talking about? I'm not doing anything to you. Your time is up first. Secondly, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I give you a reminder based on Article 239. And now let's finally go to the answer to [[Intruder: No, breach of the Rules of Procedure yet.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72588	I'll also appeal to the Constitution Committee, so you know clearly, I have to announce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72589	Go ahead and leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72590	I will. Which you chair, which you decide what you want. Yeah, that's HDZ democracy. Thank you very much! Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72591	Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72592	[[Intruder Hajdukovic: Shame on you!]] [[You're ashamed of yourself!]] [[/Intruder Hajdukovic: Am I to be ashamed? Of what? Of what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72593	Quiet! Please don't yell from the bench. ... Please don't yell from the bench! [[Intruder Hajdukovic, not understood.]] Please! Please don't yell from the bench! My colleague Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure since you've removed your colleagues from the session for insulting our parliamentary deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72595	Okay. Thank you very much. Let's get back to work without these unnecessary distractions. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72596	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Deur, I am not the one who should judge who does what and what kind of politics leads, nor can we, not the SDP, not the Social Democrats, not while the Living Wall was, nor have I judged you. I try to be a fair representative and deal with the problem by taking even some risks that are not common in the Croatian Parliament. And if you want to find out more why it's not 2002. Reform was made and it was paper ready you have a colleague Vidovic so you can have coffee later, which was then a minister, I was not in the Croatian Parliament. And for 2009, I know why she was, because we got into a recession, and there was absolutely nothing so reformative to plan or implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72597	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72598	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister, Secretary of State. I always love listening to you, my colleague, because you're really heartbroken into each topic and I think here you have said for yourself how long we've been waiting for this reform. I think it's a reform, if it isn't, at least it's a start of a reform. And if you look back at those financial assets that are secured, so just for this year, I mean for 2022 400 million is secured, and for 2023 over 700 million is secured. So you're taking care of the Republic of Croatia's budget just for those categories of our most socially endangered. I really think this is the beginning of some kind of reform. And what I'd like to ask you today is that we heard these homes are being abolished familyly. I, as far as I've studied, see that they are not abolished, but they are simply given a five-year period to really, to remove all shortcomings in order to have adequate care for their foster parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72599	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72600	This is read from the final provisions of the law to give a transitional period. Thus, they must be reshaped, thus the intention set out in the bill is read. But I would have, I'm glad you've set this up, or that you've replicated it. I'd say something next. Social care is not a question or what I would like, social protection is not a one-sided issue, it is a question of who plays a dominant role in Parliament. It's a question of all of us. And I said I'd be at the inauguration of the minister, I said I'd be his greatest critic, but at the same time my biggest associate, no matter what position I am in this House. I, too, would suggest that he in some way make efforts to make the greatest possible acceptance of the objections and the integration into this law, to be in a sense consensually accepted by the Croatian Parliament because it would be good for our Croatian citizens and for us as a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72601	Thank you. The next replica is the respected Udovic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72602	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Hrelja, it is evident that we are a country that is old from day to day, and therefore you as a parliamentary representative who manages special care for the pensioners, but here he is present and the minister has great responsibility for me and a lot of work so that the pensioners who are now in the family homes are adequately placed since we do not seem to see this reform equally and do not read the bill proposals equally in these next 5 years. Over 4,000 elderly people have to settle somewhere. That these adjustments will be done, means that they will adapt it is impossible, it will not happen. Some of them will succeed, but the vast majority will not, because you are regularly dealing with family homes that cannot meet the minimum technical requirements to be retegorized to institutions. And please see if she's visible to you. from this reform... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72603	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72604	.../Udovica Udovic: How many new homes we will have, how many new living rooms we will have for the elderly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72605	Thank you. Thank you. Let's stick to time, please all together. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72606	Thank you for the replica. Yeah, we got a problem. We have a problem here not because perhaps some of the family homes wouldn't want to be wanted within two, three, five years with some support from the ministry, which is supported and promised to reshape. But the problem is something else. That money should be paid back, that investment should be paid back. This affects the final price of accommodation in the home. Family homes are the most economical accommodation, they need to set standards and they need our society as such, because we are a poor society. Or we could ask for something to be transformed into a public institution, but then we have to be participated from the budget. So nothing can happen for nothing, but everything costs and it should be taken care of and should be carried out in this process planically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72607	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72608	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I must also react to what you said the minister was neither guilty nor obliged. As soon as he accepted this function and was guilty and obliged, unfortunately the programs and laws are in drawers not only now in this composition, but also in previous governments so that it was time for the laws to be passed. You mentioned a lack of capacity in nursing homes, we're aware of the problems. Of course, there's also a problem with lack of foster parents. I'll talk about foster care later. Not only is there a foster home missing, but there is a campaign missing that would encourage people to accept foster care. Ilegal is certainly inadmissible and the ministry and all other institutions must have instruments so that what the colleague mentioned does not happen, that someone does not let you in to make an inspection. Then what I mentioned in the replica of the minister, he didn't answer me. An emergency accommodation and payment problem for something that is not legally foreseen. So it exists in the field or the minister doesn't know what's in the field or closes his eyes. That's not going to be solved by this law. So I ask that you, as part of the majority, influence this law to be corrected, that all laws be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72609	I, as part of the ruling majority, and I have always fought against the indifferences and injustices of the system of threads, said what I said to the minister because I think so. But I'm neither defending him nor glorifying him. But one thing is important to say based on your replica, which is that we have quite a large number of foster parents. We calculate that we have about 1400 and we don't know how many foster parents we have, because illegal foster care is huge. And illegal foster care is based on two types of life support and life support contracts. And here we have a kind of real estate business. That's why I'll always stand up for legal forms of accommodation, illegal out. It's a felony for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72610	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to a respected representative and vice president of the House Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Once we only had more material, reports of consultation carried out with the interested public, and this was the Law on Copyright and Related Rights which was also in two readings and had quite a change between those two circles. So I hope you learn something from their example. This is only part of a public consultation on two laws – Proposal for a Law on Social Care and Proposal for amendments and addition of the Household Act. And so it wouldn't be on this side of us right now that you opposition are just saying something about how it's wrong, what you've done. I'm gonna stick to what's written here, and that's not what I'm saying. I'm going to be the spokeswoman of the profession now. About this law in public consultation of defecologists, educators, psychologists, social workers, professional associations, the academic community, everyone said no to him. The Ministry insists on it. The Ministry said no to their remarks and then said we were doing this in collaboration with the profession. What profession? Here's your opinion of a profession that's appalled, unfortunately. What's actually a big problem with this law is that you can't see the direction the ministry and the government want to go in. Why? If we look at the National Development Strategy, if we look at the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia then we will see that we should go through decentralisation, including local self-government. This law does exactly the opposite. It ignores and completely shuts down the profession, ignores and completely shuts down the local community because it opted for the centralization of the system. That's not good. That's not good because these aren't, this isn't even an opinion of the profession. These are the documents that you brought in the National Strategy, the development strategy. What is also unclear is how this law intends to bring close to the needs of users, or to detect the proper needs of users of the social care system, adequately respond to them, improve the social care system in order to satisfy users and employees on the other hand. You can't see that from this law. Yes, the bright point of the law and will agree many colleagues will say will increase the basis for the guaranteed minimum fee and that is correct. But only those items and those whose number of users is being reduced are actually increasing, and that is a minimum fee guaranteed and these are foster benefits. So you're not giving anything new, you're actually staying on the same or saving, and you're reducing exactly the ones that are most needed today, which is co-financing, or subsidisation of housing costs. The next year will be extremely difficult for us. Furthermore, what is also not fully clear from this law, which is why they are called the ad hoc complaint committee. If we know that the ministry is doing administrative surveillance, the chambers are doing expert surveillance on what will be done to the ministry as a control body and chambers as a control section, in fact, that they're going to have some kind of supervisory little unprofessional body, because we don't know what it should be doing and in which direction it should actually go. Removal of the social care center,... legal personality, the abolition of family homes, also mentioned by colleagues, I would not particularly hold on to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I only re-expressed one fence that I said in the replica. If your model will be a reorganization model for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute system, then give it up, because you were unable to ensure at this time that each county has its own regional office, and you want to shut down and transfer their business to postal offices. So if that's a model then don't use one model that proved to be a failure you're giving up now, just force it into this part. There would be much more to say and the Household Act, but unfortunately I won't have that much time. But I hope honestly that you will listen to really these numerous debates that were both high-quality and professionally founded and indeed are not largely guided by such a superficial one political approach and that this bill proposal, i.e. packages of these seven laws and three strategies that have not yet seen the light of day, they should be an integral part of social reform we today do not know what the strategy will look like. I hope it changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72612	The Honorable representative, Dark Taritash, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72613	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Household Act, so the Constitutional Court has made a decision, the ministry has its own story beyond that, and it would be convenient to listen to children as well. So, a lot of kids who are really at the door of the foster home said the following, that they want someone to wash clothes for them, that they want to live that they don't care that their dad can be not a lion, and Mom wants anyone or not, but that they want to have a family feeling. And we dead cold ones have no problem at all, not us, but this ministry says what the Constitutional Court said doesn't matter. That everything reality says doesn't matter, we're above it. So how much longer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72614	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72615	As long as political attitudes and how the definition of family should appear to be implemented, they apply even to those laws that have absolutely nothing to do with it. Here it is not a question of family definition, but it is a definition of a foster family providing social services, and social services must be available to all regardless of its nationality, race, skin color or sexual orientation. But you don't understand it here. But you see, for example, when taxes are due, we recently had amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act here. Then it's no problem to get inside life partners and informal life partners, then it's no problem at all. But here, for the sake of giving up a part of the electoral body to violate constitutional provisions and one part of the population, makes it impossible to access social services, it is absolutely unacceptable. I hope someone comes to their senses until the second reading and this changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72616	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72617	Dear colleagues, Vice President Glasovac, you said the profession is against and that it is about centralization. I'd compare two systems. Imagine a pension system in which a regional office otherwise accounts for pensions in one county compared to another. Whether transparency and subordination and coordination are required. That's not possible in retirement. Is it possible in the community? I'm asking you. Second, when you said everyone rebelled in the profession. For 30 years, the system has been abandoned and standing up and now it's touching someone with new obligations, with new possible roles in it. And where's the end-user? Did the debate go towards the protection of the end-user? That's what I'm asking you, or everyone's looking at it with forgiveness for their "g."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72618	Thank you. Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72619	Well, that's what I'm asking the government. So this is where he got lost from sight and from the user but also from the employee. Through this quasi reform, we do not get a solution to how to relieve social workers who are overloaded? There's no answer to that, they didn't think about it. They didn't even think about how to revise the system of these benefits, both social and other, they didn't think about it. The only thing that is certain after this reform is that in all of Croatia, I have no idea how many hundreds of millions of kunas, that tables and tiles are changed, that they are no longer social care centres but that new institutions are being placed, outposts, district offices. It's only certain after this and chaos. And I'm saying what you're saying is possible to even it out has nothing to do with this. So there is a legal framework, a legislative framework and a normative and there is an organisational structure. How you will be organized absolutely does not deprive you of the obligation to comply with the prescribed laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72620	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72621	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the Committee of Appeals of the Citizens and in general how we had on the board an opportunity to hear that they would actually deal with form, not content. They will deal with something to see if something has been missed in the whole process to do how, what tools if they do not enter the content. On the other hand, we all forget that we already have institutions dealing with content and complaints with the Ministry, the Centre for Social Care, which is the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman for children, the lawyer for gender equality who is involved in all complaints and who is indeed but cooperating with the institutions, and given the professional frameworks, gives his instructions on certain cases. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72622	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72623	I don't know what that's supposed to mean to be in shape, not content. I just don't understand it, I didn't hear it, I was on the board, but that sounds a little crazy. Now, only if the intensity is to establish this supervisory body to in some way approve new partners in social care reform, which are associations that have launched certain protests in Croatia with the right to warn about problems in the welfare system. And I respect all public figures who use their name, their reputation, their familiarity to point to some social problems. However, the ministry is not there if it is the urgency to go to this partnership relationship with associations that would be an independent body to oversee it. In doing so, it is absolutely unacceptable to ignore that the main partners of the ministry and those who carry the system are actually people who work in the welfare system. It can be quiet, but it can't put one in charge of another.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72624	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72625	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here's a series of important things between the number of objections that citizens make, what associations, what professions. Only for the Social Services Act over 1800. For the other chamber on a couple dozen, almost a hundred pages. In the Household Act, page 90. A large number of these were not accepted. Much of what has been proposed, the ruling one will wave again with the fact that there has been an increase in fees. Here's something I want to tie up and later in the debate in the Household Act. The raising of the amount of money is at that given moment to someone who is a user of every kuna well means, however just raising the amount of money without fundamental change, without the quality solutions that this law, or legal package, has not offered, I'm afraid this is all a landing, that is, as someone has said, turning from hollow to empty. So there's no quality media campaign, programs, and everything the profession suggested. Here's your final comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72626	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72627	And not only that, there is also a clear strategy that we should see at this point after public consultation on the fight against poverty and social exclusion, equal opportunities for people with disabilities and thirdly on the quality of social services. She's not here. We're discussing this at a dead end like this. And to demystify this fee story as well. The guaranteed minimum fee, it's fine, it's rising. It was last raised in 2014. She hasn't touched herself since 2014. And this increase actually won't follow the price hike that happened in these nine years, the level is the same, the share in the pay of those from 2014 was 9%, and we are unfortunately going to fall to the same share. So we want to make more money nominally, but it might be more logical that the basics change more frequently according to the price, or the cost of life, not every eight, nine years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72628	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Andreja Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72629	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's how I announced, I'm going to look back on foster care and this traditional fostering of children I have some kind of touch or life experience about. According to the annual statistical report on 31.12.2020, 2277 children were located in a foster family and 4263 adults, i.e. 6534 people. According to me, the available data without parental care is now 4200 children. The foster families are missing. In Croatia there are now some 1320 which is less than the previous years, and therefore great attention must be paid to promoting and encouraging fostering foster care because it is the healthiest and most humane form of care for children without adequate parental care until their situation is resolved, and the reasons and fates are different. A parent who cannot financially take care of his own children, for example, father died, and mother and children live in poverty. Children are singled out, placed in a home or in a foster home, a mother calls once a month to keep in touch and not to lose her parental right. Kids don't get adopted for it, they get too old and they yearn for hugs and parents. But how do foster parents get paid? Could not such a family be paid more generously then, so that the children remain in the circle of the family. Tru also has abandoned children, alcoholism, prostitution, etc. Society should accept the fact that there are communities of people we call families, but they are dysfunctional and should not be glorified. Children deserve people with whom they will be close, with whom they will be surrounded, to have love and attention, not just material security. Therefore, it is necessary to simplify the maximum speed of the adoption and adoption procedures, as a prerequisite for the training of centre staff and competent courts. In law and child - related procedures, introduce strict time limits so that children do not grow up in homes or even worse in violent families. For children who are vulnerable, of course form expert surveillance teams that will consist of psychologists, medical staff, social worker. Children from a home or foster home should be taught not to be like parents. When I prepared a little for this debate, I met, of course, all the technical conditions for hosting what can be seen on the web and what are the general conditions, so what are the living conditions to be provided to users, which they need to provide, special conditions for children, special conditions for children victims of domestic violence, etc. And that's good, of course, to write and to inform people when here they show some interest in foster care. However, the number of foster families for children has been reduced for years, although there have been some promotional campaigns but are obviously insufficient, even though they are talking about the need for deinstitutionalisation which would go towards reducing the number of homes for children and transferring their care to the accommodation of the family type. The problem is that the age limit of foster parents has increased significantly, and only three years have seen an increase in the average age of a foster parent from 55 to 60, which is what the profession says is problematic because a foster parent from 65 to 65 years of age gives up the right to foster children. Older foster families leave the system, young people do not have and foster care in Croatia dies. As I said, now there's going to be a slight increase in compensation, but it's not just about the increase in compensation, it's about changing things in the system itself when we talk about foster care. Now, just from some personal story, I'd say a little bit of experience, actually, for my parents who have been since 1999-2008. adopt 15 children, two were very short others were longer. Here's our Kika. She's been a cop for eight years now. Why did they decide to do that? The big house, my brother and I went our separate ways, so here was the place, and my parents still gave real love and empathy and a lot of understanding to those kids. Just yesterday, I was talking to my mom about evacuating a little memory in it, and we're really glad when those kids who were fostered in our family are public, which in the media, etc. thanked you for the attention and love they had experienced. And don’t actually experience it in every family because some of them said that they were in a coma home, I quote, in other families, a disaster, but they were lucky, so they came across a family who did give it a hard time. Mom worked with them a lot as far as school was concerned, and here was a girl who eventually gave her math instructions herself, even though she was repeating her class and it wasn't easy for the kids, but it wasn't easy for my kids or for us to get used to it and actually adapt. So it takes attention, love, understanding, and adapting to these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72630	Thank you very much. Mr. Cell, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Maric. The aim of the law is to improve foster care, we have definitely a problem with specialized foster care, most often traditional foster care, and I also have experience as a psychiatrist with foster families that foster people with severe mental disorders. I would stress here that there is a need to engage new foster parents, especially younger age and especially in cities, because you have a problem, let's say this particular group of people with severe mental disorders lives in Zagreb and then has to go to Dubrav Vrbovecka and this is certainly a problem for them and these are all some of the challenges that are ahead of us. But it's very important to significantly increase for, say, traditional foster care by 60% of the fees, but this cash compensation is very important, so I believe that these changes will be a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72632	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72633	Thank you very much. Yeah, now there are some cash fees a little more, so I couldn't tell you at the time when my parents were dealing with the cash fees were much less. And if you're going into something of this guy's foster care for money, and I'm saying those years were really little, then you better not go into it. So, it's not just a question of money, the question is that the one who provides foster care is traditionally for children who are either adults or children who have no parental care or those with developmental difficulties, there are about 3% of them who have behavioral disorders, so it's important that the one who decides on foster care provides all their possible attention, love without going into any distinction as to who can afford who it's about. My parents didn't make a difference because a Roma child or not a Roma child so that in any case, it strengthens the media campaign and strengthens people's information about what they can get, or what they can provide with foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72634	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Damir Granny's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, respected ministers. I would not now about the content of this has already been said much, and I agree with much that has been said today behind me will still be spoken by colleagues Rauhar Gamulin and Bencic. I'd actually like to talk about something else, I'd like to talk about these chamber laws, and I'd like to draw attention to something that hasn't been thematicated so far, and I'm a little confused and I'd like to actually ask some questions. My fundamental question is, when we talk about these professions in these chamber laws, it's actually a qualified educational condition that acquires the right to carry out these activities or better said what is the level, which is a qualification level that is necessary. I'll start with this last law and that's this no. 224, The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Socio-Pedagogical Activity, and the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Socio-Pedagogical Activity, in Art. 2. that law in Art. 2nd intervention in Art. 7. The basic law also speaks about which qualifications i.e. which diploma is needed as a condition for the right to perform socio-pedagogical activity and says here I will now quote, saying: “Completed undergraduate university study of social pedagogy or completed undergraduate and graduate university study of social pedagogy or completed an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study of social pedagogy or recognised foreign qualification”. Please note that the alternatives, which are options, the first alternative ends at level 6 and she says that sufficient conditions are completed undergraduate study, all other alternatives indicate that some combination was pre-graduate and graduate, whether an integrated study so require level 7. This doesn't make much sense because if the intensity and if the intention was to say that the sixth level is enough then that thing can be said much simpler and the thing can end with a much simpler sentence. And I'm afraid it's not because it's even more confusing what's written in the explanation, and it's explained that as I quote it, this law harmonizes with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which is based on the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. In fact, there's no speech here that they're even as they should be and as they're professional and university studies because professional studies here are not even mentioned, here are leveled 6 and 7 levels, I think that's where the confusion is complete. To make things even more confusing, that figure, that same figure repeats itself in other laws, these chambers, not all but four of them. For example. Proposal for a Law 223, Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Social Labour Activity of the same old, same thing. So several alternatives are offered as, as a possible qualification and the first alternative is undergraduate, all others are graduates. One more thing, I return to the law this first mention of amendments and additions to the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. The non-existent points 8 to 16 are also mentioned. The 7th century of the 1st century, but this has already been recognised by the Committee on Legislatives, so it is mothered. And I'll say that again. 6th he intervenes in Art. 22. of the basic law by adding certain items to that Article. 22, but it is missed that in Article 1(1). We refer to Article 22. The 7th century of the 1st century of the basic law that we just changed, some of the points we've thrown out, others are being renumbered. It was actually missed here to register, so you need an update. And I repeat once again, the same figure, the same figure, the same one I dare say mistake, appears in other of these chamber laws. Please kindly ministers with your associates to pay attention to this and make the necessary changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72636	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mr. Ivan Celic is on his way now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. I will also talk about the chamber laws which 5, 4 would put into one category because they regulate exactly a certain profession while the Croatian Chamber of Psychotherapy is in some way hybrid because it gathers different professional profiles that have acquired the name psychotherapist and she is the only one not obligator. There have been some remarks, I stress that this is the first reading by certain chambers and what has already been spoken about, most of which has been spoken by my colleague Hrelja, so it is difficult to achieve sometimes a balance between the interest of the profession and the interest of the profession, which is mostly regulated through chambers and users for which these professions and so on. Assisting calls are what they are. Here I would briefly what I have received from the Croatian Psychological Chamber means the question of membership fees and the question of budgets that, in fact, need to be asked for prior consent every year. Also a problem with large chambers, social workers' chambers and a psychological chamber that has several thousand members to make the chamber assembly all members, they suggest a delegate model, I mean in a period between choices that usually happen every 4 years. The delegate model is, for example, in the Croatian medical chamber and in most of these health chambers. Also in case of non-acceptation of the annual report on the work or financial report of the chamber, this would be a condition for the President to be resolved. This, in some ways, interferes with these regular election cycles every 4g. and creates potential turbulence, and I think the president can be resolved if the regulations and general acts of the chamber are violated, so I would like to ask one more time to consider it between the first and second readings, as well as this issue for a maximum of two mandates only in the chamber of social workers. If this is being introduced then it should be introduced into all the chambers, although I'm not sure that's the best. I'll look at the draft bill on psychotherapy activity. When that law was adopted 2018 There were a number of different opinions about who could wear the psychotherapist's title and that was said by her colleague Puljak, so of course the doctors wanted it to be just doctors. Most EU countries have when we talk about the title of psychotherapists doctors and psychologists. We've expanded it and found some kind of golden environment, so so on. helper call. All those professions that experience everyday working with people who are in need and who have certain mental problems that do not require medical intervention may, after a certain education, obtain the title of a psychotherapist, and others such as a graduate mining engineer, construction, architecture, they will not wear the title of a psychotherapist but an advisory therapist. It doesn't interfere with them in any way that they can finish a certain psychotherapy school, that they can open a craft, so don't disturb them in any kind of economic activity, but that's where we made a nice and proper distinction between a psychotherapist and an advisory therapist, and I think we should stay that way. Certain changes, other changes, most other changes I think are going in the right direction, and in some ways with that liberalisation, it doesn't change the meaning and spirit of the law in a significant way. I would only ask that this removal of the prior collection of medical diagnostic documentation and the indications set for the treatment of under 18 years of age be considered. I think it is very important that there is a particular medical documentation despite the objective problem of lack of child and adolescent psychiatrists most visible in the Dubrovnik-Rijeka area. Let's say Osijek has achieved certain superstandards and what's in KBC Osijek should be some kind of visual sample of how it should be in other regional centres as well. So all these changes related to chamber laws go in favor of the profession. These particular problems concerning complaints by the chamber of social workers, I believe that the competent ministry will reconsider and make it optimal for chambers as autonomous institutions to have their place in the welfare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72638	Thank you. You have replicas, Mrs. Bencic. No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Grba Bujevic first, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely agree with you because you are a good acquaintance of the area, given the profession you are engaged in and your cooperation with social work, but I would like to ask you something else. Do you consider it a step by the Committee for Decision on the founding of the complaint which will best protect the rights of users in the social care system, given that it will be people who are not from the social system and who will actually be from the social ministry system, who will actually be one transparent body that will protect these employees, but there is always the idea that they will be some laymen who are completely without education and anything else. Well, here I am, asking your opinion, you must know it better than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72640	Thanks, sorry again. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72641	Thank you, esteemed colleagues of Grba Bujević I have nothing personal against this commission, it is in some way civil surveillance, it is a certain super standard. Some of the negative connotations with the initiative Save me and certain individuals representing this initiative wanted to be associated in some way with the interpretation of the commission. Therefore, members of the commission are chosen by a public invitation that may be representatives of NGOs or individuals themselves and choose them and resolve the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. I think that way we will take a step forward in protecting the rights of persons who consume social care services. Something like that already exists inside the health system. I don't think we should be afraid of civilian surveillance and let's say the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights is something that could put a correlation with To this committee. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72642	Thank you very much, now Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72643	Thank you. I'm asking you a question right now that you can even answer from your professional position. The status of parents of children with disabilities and difficult difficulties, so those who get the status of careers because children need 24-hour care and care. They sought in negotiations with the ministry, and they received great support from the public to allow them to immediately interrupt their status in case of child death but not for another 6 months because they are not in a position to immediately hire and immediately cope. However, they were rebuffed of their status immediately by the death of a child, not to mention that after 2 months of temporary incompetence, so in the event of parental illness, they cannot take care of that child, they are also interrupted by their status and children are staying as soon as the parent is incapacitated in institutions instead of allowing him in the house. Why? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72644	Thank you, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72645	Dear fellow Bencic, I'll tell you very briefly what I think. I agree with my parents' initiative and I absolutely support deinstitutionalization in principle. Of course, institutions are necessary in particularly difficult cases, but this is the same issue of foster care with people with severe mental disorders. If, of course, it is more costable, if it is possible for this person to have this child with developmental difficulties that this person with severe mental disorders remains at home, remains in his environment, and then to offer such assistance as is likely to be 24-hour surveillance and that has certain countries, let's say Austria, Germany has well regulated it so that here I support that parent initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72646	And Mrs. Murganic at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72647	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you took this here in your debate, as we call the five laws regarding the chamber, for the work of the chamber, or for regulated professions, and that's good. Yesterday on the board there was a topic, even a member of the committee who, otherwise, also the president of a chamber points out that these regulations limit the independence of the chamber, however, as far as I read the ministry in some ways requires consent, gives consent to the chambers at the level of membership, to some decisions relating to the financing, work of the chamber itself, decisions and how the level of work and the costs of professional supervision are taken. So, in a way, he's financially protecting the members of the chamber. Is that a member's shield or is that Infringement of the chamber's independence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72648	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72649	Dear counterpart Murganic does not restrict the freedom of association in any way because he does not influence the freedom of association. The more active the chamber, the more concerned it is with its members, the more people are interested in the work of that chamber. The question of membership rates should be regulated, I think that question that needs to be settled in general for all five chambers, that there should be no exceptions. It's also a matter of budget. I think that bringing a membership fee is something that doesn't change every year and that a certain clause can be made if the chamber's assembly changes the level of membership fee to seek a certain previous consent, and that's not every year because I'm afraid it's going to be hyperadministration, and the same thing that the chamber won't be able to plan for a certain period, 3.4 years, the question of helping us as members of the Medical Chamber we have free supplementary health insurance paid by the chamber. No Long-term Planning It's not possible to calculate that. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72650	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Romana Nikolic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72651	The ageing of the population primarily active ageing and intense emigration of young people and working ageing alters traditional care for the elderly that we are used to. More and more older people remain home only without the support of concerns within the family circle, and the phenomena are becoming more and more pronounced in rural and less developed areas. As a consequence, there is a growing number of people over 65 who need some form of long - term help, meaning the number of people who have one or more serious illnesses and difficulties for which they cannot perform their own basic needs. Since 2014-2019, we are seeing an increase of 8.3% from 29.7% to 38.5%, realistic forecasts are that over the next 10 years it will take 30,000 more seniors while by 2050 aid should be provided for even over 60,000 older ones. How much this figure grows may best bear witness to the growth of gray zone or illegal accommodation providers for old and powerless who currently care for about 2,000 elderly and the increase of informal and often inadequate and unquality concerns that those with little more income find in the black market. We therefore certainly welcome the announcements of the introduction and development of new services for older people outside the institution and help in the house i.e. Step forward. We also support all proposals made by the Ombudsman, especially by those heading towards better control of the eradication of illegal and better information to the public. We also advocate public disclosure of providers who are banned from work and criminal, not only criminal responsibility for illegal providers and abuse of users, but because the demand for affordable accommodation care already exceeds the offer, especially in public institutions and family homes, we believe that a new law endangers a part of the population who uses or needs long-term care with accommodation, and we are genuinely concerned with part of the law relating to the proposal to transform family homes. Transformation is proposed in the household category, it is not acceptable for the users themselves because they remain without the necessary healthcare and even less quality. It is not acceptable for more than half of the current family homes because it does not ensure the financial sustainability of the activity. This transformation by society also means a significant reduction in capacity, over-exploitation of costs to the hospital system and health care anyway. The second proposed transformation of family homes is the one in the institution of social care. For most homes, it is not feasible because of the inability to carry out a valid public service permit, but all that is possible is not possible within the proposed five-year period, as well as financial investments in this kind of transformation bear a very high risk, questioned filling, questionable finding of labour in smaller environments, etc. In fact, moving to an institution definitely means increasing the price of services for older users, and demand in the private sector is sensitive to the price. In this regard, the difference in the use of the capacities of family homes and institutions of private founders in the latter areas is reflected. Long-term care allocations are among the lowest in the EU, only 0.4 GDPs significantly lower than the average of Member States of 1.7%, and also among Member States, we have the lowest expected increase in singleing out to 0.5% of GDP so that it cannot rely too much on budgetary resources. We therefore have reason to believe that the proposal for transformation is a time bomb for both users and society as a whole. The proposed transformations mean the loss of thousands of beds of accommodation capacity, meaning a reduction in the affordability of long-term monitoring for many older people and families who already today cover a significant part of the costs and ultimately mean the loss of one stalker and so-called infrastructure. Family homes provide services for almost a quarter of the elderly, public homes are filled so that as the only acceptable substitution remains a black market. Since we are also witnessing a growing poverty rate among the older population, we believe that the terminal market price factor must not be ignored in lawmaking nor in the unequal economic development of the Republic of Croatia and the locational dispersion of the users. We advocate the need to increase the quality of services, but we believe that there is and that there must be more acceptable solutions than the proposed transformations, otherwise the new law will be only a step backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72652	You don't have a replica. Mrs. Ivana Posavec The culprit is now up, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72653	Thank you, dear Vice President. Today I am in a special situation, today I will speak for this speaker on behalf of my dear colleague, friend and other Domagoj Hajdukovic, the president of our club, the person who had just stayed here in a speechless assembly, the person who publicly declared herself without shame and fear about his commitment. And maybe that's why today, without reason, lost the right to talk about an extremely important topic for him and for the community he belongs to. And so colleagues and colleagues, I may not be as authentic as Domagoj, I may not be clear enough, but believe me, I'll be loud enough. The basic issue of the Household Act opens, a law that defines that life partners must be included in all laws, not just in those laws that make them bound. Despite the rulings of the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which have confirmed that life partners can become foster parents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they still do not want to be explicitly included in the Household Act even though it does so in other laws and regulations. Let's remind him, after a terrible case of the death of a little girl here, an out-of-date minister, but his two State Secretarys here will tell him because he will remember, in April of this year, he announced an amendment to the Household Act to simplify the adoption process and strengthen the possibility of foster care. The question then of what will happen to the status of life partners changes to the law has been answered by the minister that I quote, a question on which a wider public debate will be conducted and in which both world-famous models and the social climate will determine what direction our society will develop and that the interest of the child will be first. Meanwhile, court decisions have confirmed that life partners should not be discriminated against and must be allowed equal treatment as with marriage mates in the matter of foster care and adoption. The profession has repeatedly made it clear and loud that the foster family is a better option for a child than in a home for careless children, where sexual orientation of the foster parent is not important. This was signed by over 200 Croatian scientists, mostly psychologists, sociologists, educators. The most important number of children in the system has not been reduced, increased, doubled. If the number of homes of all species doubled, it would be filled in within a week. Over 3,000 children await foster care. Today we are witnessing that despite all the HDZ government still does not want to improve the Household Law in order to really expand the number of potential foster parents and allow for more people who could provide a safe home to children who spend their nights in some cold homes. Even more so during the draft amendments to the Household Act, the ministry complained about the ruling of the Administrative Court, which makes life partners impossible to become adoptive. The government's life partners state in other laws when it comes to paying taxes or some other spheres of life. For example, at the beginning of this month, we have amended the Law on Administrative Procedure, and there life partners are explicitly listed by their mates. I'm asking you, what makes HDZ's government so difficult to name life partners in the Household Act? I ask the minister what is the reason that in Europe his members and family are ready to provide foster care for the same-sex partners, and you are not in Croatia. Is that called hypocrisy? What's it called? We're wondering. While we have the verdict, therefore, two important courts of the administrative and constitutional can continue to ignore the Life Partnership Act and offer their interpretation. We saw it five years ago when three same-sex couples were rejected from the ministry at the time to become foster parents and foster parents. We saw this even after the recent Constitutional Court ruling when the director of the competent centre decided not to accept the verdict according to which Kozic and Šegota can adopt. And now just in the end, we're wondering if by taking this word away, you're going to silence the LGBT community? You won't, but you'll try to take away their rights, and we will. We won't let that happen because we're progressive society and we have to respect our differences. [[Intruder: It's not right, but...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72654	...I must take away your word for the sake of time, but stay because you have, stay, stay, Mrs. Krivić because you have this Mrs. Glamuzina who will ask you a question. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, whatever you want, I mean, no, no, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72655	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members of Ivana, you do not have to worry so much at all because what our government today refuses to do on its own will soon be done, as with most other laws when ordered by the EU. And it comes to our debate soon, at least that's how it's announced, and the Family Law might already be seeing some key changes here. Don't worry, we'll be ordered by someone else when we don't know ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72656	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72657	Dear colleagues of Glamuzina, a society that will always respond to someone's instruction, who will not know its way in which to go will never be a progressive society, we will never catch our colleagues and colleagues from the EU. Which is worth this great funding from cohesion funds when we don't know how to develop society, we don't know how to learn from outside the open door, we don't understand that we're all the same and we have to respect ourselves in that diversity. We don't know how to teach our children that it doesn't matter who you love but that it's important to love. And these are the key differences between this left, left side of the assembly and unfortunately this right side of the assembly, but what we're talking about today is politics. Unfortunately, this is a policy that takes too long in the Republic of Croatia and if we continue like this, and this is how we continue to have one policy in Croatia, and another policy that the same government shows the EU. That's not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72658	Thank you, thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72659	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues, for looking back on the inability for life partners to have the possibility of fostering. You yourself mentioned the case of Kožić Šegot, so if this law does not explicitly state that a person can exercise the right does not mean that it is not impossible to achieve it because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has just ordered amendments to the Household Act in this case, it has already found that the competent authorities are obliged to interpret and apply the provisions of the Household Act in a way that will allow all persons under equal conditions to participate in the public service of fostering. Therefore, regardless of whether a potential foster parent lives in a life or informal partnership. In accordance with the decision and resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as well as the current practices of the social care centre in the requirements for the provision of foster care, life partners have the opportunity to deal with foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72660	Mrs. Posavec The Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72661	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, you surprise me more and more every time in these discussions. I actually think it might be best for the public and as the Minister of Public Hygienic said to the public today best that as the ministry has ignored any proposals in the public debate that I may ignore this, this replica of you because it is really embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing that we in the Croatian Parliament cannot build into the laws what the Constitutional Court has told us that we cannot accept the fact that we are not all equal, but that we have equal rights and that we cannot accept the fact that in Croatia over 3000 is waiting for a warm home and that it does not matter whether this warm home will give him two mothers and two fathers, it is important that they give the warm home at the time, immediately, and not late.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72662	You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Madam. Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, experts from the Zagreb Faculty of Law, the head of the Student Centre of Social Work Gordana Berc, the head of the Department of Labour and Social Law Željko Potočnjak and the head of the Department of Administrative Science Gordana Marchetic criticise one of the key changes in the social system to remove the legal personality of the social care centre because they believe that the proposal which also opposes professional associations as we have already said, as well as users' associations, will not contribute to the more efficient structure and work of the system. Professors and experts warn that the legal personality of the centre has questioned the democratic principle of subsidiarity and the position of the centre as key institutions not only of social care but also of the social states and of several arguments. They warn that the abolition of legal personality has not been proposed by the representatives of employees or experts working in centres and other institutions, nor have they been proposed by the working group working on the proposal of the new Social Care Act but has already been imposed by the ministry and the proposal has not been debated at the working groups' meetings. So we repeat and underline the centralisation of the system is not proposed by the profession but is imposed by the ministry. Legal experts point out that the social care system is hypercentralized, as we have already said, although the existing system already belongs to a highly centralised system. They take away the ability of local authorities to influence the system even though they have legal obligations to finance certain rights such as housing assistance, soup kitchens, accommodation of homeless people and part of the cost of social care. The new proposal by the Department of Social Care has no obligation to submit the JLS report, nor are local authorities represented in the board of directors of the new Institute. It's clearly about changing the structure by modeling HZMO which also has district offices, services, outposts. However, social care and pension insurance systems operate on different principles and are not comparable, so that pension system solutions cannot be copied into the welfare system because the welfare system must have a certain level of standardisation throughout the country, but social care centres should also respond to the specific needs of local communities in which they operate. The change in structure and the elimination of legal personality is explained by inefficient management and unequal actions, but nowhere is it clear what specific actions are in place. Professors point out that in the current formation, the ministry has had enough power to even things out. In the current network of centres and branches, changes should be made depending on the observed shortcomings such as transforming smaller centres into branches, and the network should be strengthened by the employment and education of employees, by investing in infrastructure among other things and by EU funds. Elimination of the legal personality of the social care centre will only further worsen public perception of social care, increase citizens' mistrust and slow down the process of improving their activities. This is what professors from the Faculty of Law Berc, Potočnik and Marchetic warn about. They agree that the reform of the system is necessary, but must not be hasty and imposed, and contrary to the opinions of employees, experts and researchers, yes. The critics of this law joined the authorities of the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb with a professional and interested public. There is also a question of compliance of this proposal with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where it is clearly prescribed that social care operations are dealing with units of local and regional self-government, that is, Art. 129.b. And they still have 129.c. and 130. And now my question is whether it is sufficient to withdraw this proposal and to move forward with a new proposal of the Social Care Act that will include both knowledge and experience and professions and legal experts and user associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72664	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirela Ahmetovic, Ahmetovic is up now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72665	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The minister seems to have taken seriously the remarks of his colleague Hrelje that he is neither guilty nor obliged to bring such a reform today, but he is both guilty and in debt because he has not prepared a good reform, and he is obliged, in fact, because he is simply in charge. The fact that it wasn't the profession my God didn't have to accept such a responsible duty. In fact, I'm actually going to look back on one single article of a single law. It's about art. 44. A social care law that speaks of a threatened buyer of energy. In fact, the EU task force for endangered consumers or threatened customers has defined energy poverty indicators as the first inability to keep households adequately warm, and such are 7% in Croatia, municipal account lags, and 16% in Croatia, and the presence of a roof that leaks, wet walls, floors or foundations, or the poisoning of carpentry or floor. And who knows how many of these are in Croatia? The review of the effectiveness of the measures taken by the State Audit Office and the actions taken to mitigate poverty for the previous four-year period, which was observed between 2014-2018, examined the effectiveness of measures in four strategic areas, including housing and energy availability. Of course, about the availability of energy, not a single letter. The measures that would allow the prevention of energy poverty do not exist, and of course they cannot be revised. No one in Croatia is following the aim of whether children and the elderly are cold or not, whether they are late to pay their bills for energy consumption or not, if they are late for why they are late, whether the roof is sneezing or sleeping in the damp, simply no one is following the energy poor or trying to help them. The Electricity Market Act, which came into force last month, uses the notion of energy poverty, and that we at the level of the entire energy and social system have no definition at all what that would mean. The same law mentions a threatened customer, but does not specify who is considered a threatened buyer, but is to that end referred to the ministry responsible for social care. Great, then I couldn't wait so a month ago to finally come to the table and change this law or the Social Care Act, so the ministry would say that it was the energy poverty and the basis of which we would define the threatened buyer. That is why the Social Care Act, in this Article 44, which refers to the right to compensation for the threatened energy buyer, is subject to the conditions for obtaining the status of the threatened buyer prescribed by the regulations governing the energy sector. So the energy sector says it will say social care, and social care says it will say the energy sector and indeed it is, it is right that social care is because the status of the threatened buyer is defined by a regulation based on the Energy Act, and here I am only taking the opportunity to point out the illogicality of the provisions of the Electricity Act that came into force last month so let it not be called to the Ministry of Social Care if they actually define who the threatened buyer is. However, this same threatened customer has nothing to do with energy poverty at all, but it has to do with the Social Care Act and other criteria. In fact, the criteria defining the status of a threatened energy buyer do not have anything to do with energy poverty because they do not really include all threatened energy customers. These criteria apply exclusively to users of guaranteed minimum fees and to users of personal disability. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss The numbers reveal an almost symbolic percentage of people in distress who can rely on the help of the state, less than 1.4% of the population. At the same time, millions and 600 thousand people live in poverty or on the poverty line. Therefore, these million and a half that are not covered by these two criteria of consumer threat are therefore not energy poverty, therefore, the recognition of energy poverty and therefore, in connection with the threatened energy buyer, should be based on high cost criteria for energy services and low energy efficiency of households. So try and get into this law as well. definition of an energy poor household if you really want people like that. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] and help. [[Intruding Radin: Thank you, Mrs Ahmetovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72666	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Udovic now, you have no replicas, please welcome Mrs. Udovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72667	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. In fact, if we're going to talk about reform, we can't get into the bill in five minutes. So it's a package of seven laws, but we can start thinking about how this reform was supposed to go. In fact, every reform needs to start with strategic thinking, and so this reform should have taken place with strategic documents. Three strategic papers are released at the same time in a seven-law procedure. And why is that? Well, that's because our minister or ministry didn't actually make a thorough analysis, didn't predict the path to go or clearly defined the objectives. I went to the government's site today to check that maybe those national documents weren't adopted, so we didn't see them because we're just talking about them, but nobody saw them, they were jets. We don't know what the state strategy is, what national plans are, then we can't even talk about the laws because we don't know where we're going, where it's going to lead us, what our goals are. Will these funds that we've withdrawn be enough to actually make a thorough reform? 2000 objections in public consultation are in fact a guarantee that this reform will not unfortunately be carried out in quality. Why? Because it is not designed with the support of the profession, with the support of the interested public, and when you want to do something other than the interest of Croatian citizens, then you will find many obstacles. Today we discussed on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government the draft budget for 2022. and some of these measures are already envisaged in the draft budget, and I have raised the question of the Budget Implementation Act whether it is incurring at the level of the budget base. Planned budget base for '22. It's the same one we have in '21. And it stands at 3.326 kuna. When I asked the Ministry of Finance's representative if they remember the last time that same basis was issued, they said they didn't remember. Here while I was waiting for my argument, I went a little backwards. The last year I came is in 2001, so 20 years. The budget base is not raised. And why is she important? So it is important to increase the extra charge for children, to increase maternity and parental support, to increase salary compensation during temporary inability to work, to raise the personal invalidity of the sensitive group means the first group of disabled, disabled Croatian defenders. So 20 years. We didn't lift it, and we don't even have an announcement that we're going to pick it up. So this is about cosmetic reform, and rightly the media called this reform a bluff. We have bluffed the reform of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and we are bluffing this law, this package of laws. Why? Because we have to show the European Commission that we are going to do reforms. We are merely showing that we are going to be doing reforms, and whether we are really going to have a reform we do not know, and nor can we assume, given that we have not adopted strategic documents, strategic documents that are important to us in order to withdraw at all the funds that we would launch this reform and actually come to a quality and social care system and to prevent the poverty of our citizens and all other initiatives that should contribute to a dignified life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72668	You've got one replica, ma'am. Glamurine, Glamuzine, pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72669	You're not coming tonight, are you? .../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72670	Such a day, such a day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72671	Thank you. My colleague Udovic, when you talk about the fees that are now mentioned in these amendments to the law, you have recently proposed to amend the Law on maternity benefits and parental support, I know that it is not directly under the same ministry, but can you make some kind of difference with these amendments to this set of laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72672	Thank you, colleagues. Of course we can. So, what's unfortunate is that parents who use actually leave to take care of children with severe developmental disturbances are so far entitled to 70% of the same budget base that hasn't changed in 20 years. It's worth a little more than 2,000 kuna to you. So, on the one hand, we bring strategies to prevent poverty, and on the other hand, this government and the ministries that are responsible for implementing all policies to prevent poverty themselves are causing their own actions to impoverish citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72673	Well, thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72674	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today almost discussing the system, the laws whether, in the area of the social care system and I believe it is clear to all of us and that we are aware that the social care system is in fact one of the most complex systems and that it is one system that is very fragmented and a system that includes almost 600,000 users and indeed a large number of institutions that primarily care about the system, and then provide a whole range of services. And if we look at these laws in general in the social care system not only of the Social Care Act but all of these that we're discussing today are indeed in the last 10, 10 years a whole series of times changed and novelized and here we now have a package of reform laws, so other than the basic primary social care law there is the Household Law and 5 chamber laws relating to regulated professions. If we are looking at the Social Care Act, what should, above all, be desired and sought to combat poverty, improve the situation of social workers in terms of disbursement of public powers, in terms of changes in terms of different types of compensation when it comes to combating poverty and strengthening the position of vulnerable groups where we see an increase in a number of benefits and this increase significantly compared to the existing situation, we see in the law some new services provided in the welfare system. When we talk about dispensing social workers and dispensing public powers as much time as it allows me, I'm just going to point out which ones are, we have 145 public powers, that's a lot, and really social workers are burdened with the administration, but we didn't really count them, I'm just going to for a little while as long as it allows. So, what is being removed from the social care system and what are we going to do, which is to be removed and disbursed by social workers. First of all, social surveys, conditional leave, benefits, the exit of data exchanges through SocSkrb application of recommendations for kindergarten, school nutrition, living room, housing and other rights at local level, compensation for employment that goes into HZZ's jurisdiction, compensation for accommodation costs in the student home that goes to the ministry and, therefore, contracts directly with the student's home, compensation for the costs of transportation of students with difficulty in developing or persons with disabilities or children located in a foster family who attend therefore teaching outside the residence. What is questionable and what someone here has mentioned I have the need to especially emphasise, questions of extra aid and care, personal disability and parental status where I really think this should do very well in the future, so this, this public authority is reducing the centres for social care and indeed, in the coming period, there is an intention to intensify, cooperate with other bodies, so to ensure the assumptions for taking over those rights and their final takeover. These are long-term and exhaustive negotiations and I believe that the ministry services will succeed and I really want these 3 public powers to be removed from social workers in order to reduce their administrative burden, and so that social workers can deal with what they need to deal with, and that is the profession and their users. A lot of words were about transforming family homes, I said a few words about it in my replicas, and I think that transformation is really important, but that it is necessary to think about the right time. And finally, the Academy of Social Care as one of the 3 intended public institutions, I don't think I agree with my colleagues or colleagues who have criticised this because I think that whatever the Academy called itself is really needed because social workers in the social care system and have improved so far, but their training needs to be standardised, it is necessary to standardise mandatory specialised training programs, see what with professional training of trainees, which is with continued professional training of directors, professional and other workers, etc., I find this very useful. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you, sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72675	Thank you. Mrs. Bencic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72676	Here I have a question specifically about parents of children with disabilities. In case the parent gets sick and can't care for the child at the time, and has parenting status, in which case the law provides for the possibility of putting the child in an institution, and does not foresee the possibility of helping in the house. So it's cheaper, because the institution's day costs more than a day of help and care in the house, so the person who's qualified for it. Why does the law not foresee the possibility that children should not be institutionalized while their parents are being treated and so that they remain in their familiar environment because for that, it is certainly a great stress for them. Especially for those kids who've never been to an institution. So it's some short periods of up to 2 months when parents can't take care of a child because of a disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72677	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72678	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues for that question. I'll tell you what is the concrete procedure, so in case it really happened, because we had, and eventually, during my short term, which lasted a year in the ministry when the crown occurred, whether or not, such situations. So, a concrete procedure in practice, so there were a lot of questions and a lot of anger indeed, I understand and anger, understand and anger, but I will say a concrete procedure. So in these situations when a parent gets sick and can't take care of a child who needs a 24-hour care centre, he has to find a solution in such situations. I agree that the solution should in no way be to place a child in an institution, so institutionalisation, but in some situations, too, my colleague Celic said, you have no choice. You don't have trained, you don't have trained carers who could adequately respond to all needs of a child with developmental difficulties especially when it comes to high levels of difficulty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72679	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72680	Thank you, Vice President. At the end of your debate, you have just mentioned that in the proposal of the Social Care Act, you are proposing the establishment of the Academy of Social Care as a public institution that would carry out professional training for all stakeholders participating in the social care system. It also means for employees of the Centre for Social Work, Care, Centres for Special Care, Family Centres, all of which means which, who care for users and service providers. It is just the establishment of an academy that is important in the context of lifelong education and learning especially in the time in which we live and where the changes are happening very quickly in all fields, and it is the area of social care that is one sensitive area of action that requires continuous improvement and acquisition of new knowledge and skills to give users as much quality as possible. I'm worried. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72681	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72682	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues for this matter. Yes, the work of social workers is extremely complex, extremely responsible and it is a job that really requires continued support, continuous professional training and continued professional development. Whatever this public institution is called, someone said it's a pompous name, the academy, whatever its name is, I absolutely support and support the establishment of this public institution. For what? My experience in those years, social workers, and that's what someone said, and so far, they've been training themselves, but they've been doing it in different forms. So, from civil society associations to different institutes, etc., however, what needs professional training and professional development of social workers should be standardised and specialized, suspended, and not abandoned to the philosophy and to leave to the spordency. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Only with systematic professional training can a social worker receive continuous support and continuous professional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72683	Thank you, Mrs. Bedekovic. Thank you. Mrs. Irena Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72684	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues. Due to the lack of the previous Household Act, which has been in force since 1 January 2019, the objectives of the fostering promotion have not been achieved. As the draft new Household Act is presented, it is felt that the main weight of the problem is reduced to positive changes in the calculation of benefits for the work of fosterers and supplies, it is believed that this increases the quality of care for users. Given inflation prices actually will remain at the same level for foster parents, will this solve all system problems? The foster home is less and less and less, the new foster parents are gone, dear colleagues please, how do you comment and, in your opinion, where do you see the solution to this great problem of our society from your rich experience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72685	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72686	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I really thank you for this problem, this is a really big problem and it is not a problem facing only Croatia. The problem falls in both interest and motivation for fostering and fostering is the problem most EU countries face. We live in a world that is the way it is, we live in a world when a growing number of people are closing in and a growing number of people are deciding, it might sound absurd, but it really is, it decides to give love and warmth. The foster care isn't just a fee. I listened to my colleague Marić who has experience in her family, of course that foster care, the foster parent must receive adequate compensation which are by the way and this law still raised, but foster care is not only compensation, foster care is love and nobility. I spent a lot of time with the foster parents listening to their stories and foster children some older age. 15, 16, 17 years of experience, and the paints have bad experiences. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Hostage is first of all love How to motivate different campaigns. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72687	Thank you. I have to. I have to. I have to. [[Intruder Bedeković: Excuse me.]] They use another answer to complete themselves. Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, dear colleagues. Family centers are actually a step forward in this form in which they are proposed because they will be engaged and will be focused on prevention, and on treatment, so on strengthening actually the services they will provide. In health care, prevention is one of the most important things, whether it is worth social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72689	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72690	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Of course, what is above all in my court is the greatest value of family centers is in fact their preventive treatment and developmental activity aimed at children and family. And that is why I really welcome the separation of family centres from the social care centres because I believe, of course, it is a process, but I believe that this will strengthen and reduce the various risks in the family, implement different forms of preventive programmes, and you as a doctor and as a medical worker are very aware of the importance of prevention, and this is also true in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72691	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72692	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. We have heard from the opposition that these proposals are not even reformal, that they are not good, that they will lead to chaos in the system, but I am asking you how justified such assessments are, since in the whole system of social systems, which in itself is composed of two of the most important elements of the users and those who provide them with the service. If this law is proposed above all that those who provide a service are disbursed of a number of administrative jobs precisely in order to devote most of their working time to direct contact and work with users, if it is their best professional training that should be standardised, if users themselves are improving the situation and increasing certain rights, then do I consider this to be reform law and I think that it is good for the system and I ask you what you think about it since you have worked in this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72693	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72694	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thank you, of course, for this question of yours. Well, of course, what we should all be focused on, and especially the minister and the services that, of course, have been prepared by the working group, should be the focus of users and improvements, so above all, the improvement and quality of services for the user. And in order to improve the quality of the service and expand the entire range of services for the user, of course, we need to relieve the social worker of various powers, among other things, of which I have listed you, to relieve them of administrative jobs in order to be able to deal with the profession. They can and should be involved in the profession. And in that sense, I consider this law to be reformal in relation to the current situation. I said this is a system that is very complex, one of the most complex, very fragmented And the changes don't happen overnight. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]] It's a process whose We'll just see the results. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72695	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72696	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, in your debate, you said that social workers are burdened, they would say overloaded and, among other things, because our centres are under-tapped. Therefore, I think that praise is a valuable project like that which started today in the town of Sibenik for which 2 million and 350 thousand kuna are provided and will be employed by 4 new people who will visit and bring social services to the threshold of these users, which will cover 95 people, and as it says they will receive as many as 9 different social services. All the funds are grants, 85% from the European Social Fund, and the other 15% were provided by the ministry. I believe that not only in the town of Sibenik and this project that includes work and in Vodice, Skradin and 7 new municipalities, that other welfare centres will also get such opportunities and take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72697	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72698	Thank you very much, dear fellow, for this I would like to make a comment, so I'll comment on it myself. What is the fact that social care centres have been subscribing to us in terms of profession, and this is the ministry headed by Minister Aladrovic, and then, even at the time when the minister's duty was performed by fellow Minister Murganic, just to reduce this sub-opcitation, we were opening new jobs, raising the pay coefficients for social workers, so we also sought to strengthen the profession. What was important was what you said when you described this project at the Social Care Centre in Sibenik you were actually talking about the process of deinstitutionalization. So, the process of deinstitutionalisation is a process that lasts and goes slowly, and the goal is to provide our users with the quality of services they deserve and in their homes just to prevent institutionalisation. And housekeeping, homes, colleagues Bencic here's what you were talking about. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72699	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja is now, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72700	Dear colleagues, as former minister, I'm sure you understand everything that's going on in the system, but I'm sorry, but it's understandable if it's 30. Doesn't change that it's stale water and whatever is suggested to change someone's fault and someone's going to complain. Therefore, a broad range of solutions should always be given not only one option, and when I return to what we agreed on to family homes. So, I have no objection to offers and other forms of accommodation, accommodation of users with greater support from the Resort Ministry, but to preserve what has proved economically acceptable to our citizens and quality. You don't need to ban it, it's enough if you're not okay not to give a license, so you turn yourself into something else you can, which you can either be in foster care or in an institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72701	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72702	I agree with your colleague. Of course I'm telling you again, it's a very complex and complex system. The story of family homes is actually, in my opinion, a story that turned into something that wasn't imagined at first. Family homes are designed as homes where users will stay, and homes will provide a family environment. Over the years, this great and wonderful idea of providing a family environment has turned users into a deviation. So you have a situation where you have a family home with not 20 people as much as allowed but with a story of an excessive number that then turns into what we call illegal. Absolutely what we said to separate the wheat from the weeds, we have great examples, great examples to give to survive and to provide favors, and this isn't going to go away. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72703	Thank you, thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. And now it's Madam. Sandra Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72704	I'm going to use an individual to make a few points out of this package of laws that we really can't agree with and that we think they show a lack of respect for the users. My colleagues talked about the lack of full reform compared to the system itself. However, here is my colleague, Pocrnic, you said exactly about the issue of equalising the same-sex partners, so those who live in a life partner or the same-sex community and heterosexual couples with regard to fostering and access to actually providing foster care that the constitutional court did not say that this must be regulated by law. This is otherwise an explanation given by both the government and the ministry in relation to all the criticism they received through public consultation. However, what is the truth, what did the Constitutional Court really say in its decision? The Constitutional Court stressed, I quote, that a priority by disfellowshipping, so and extorting, the access of a particular social group to foster services, and without objective and reasoned reasons, the potential of foster care as a public service has been reduced, given that a limited circle of persons who could meet the needs of its users. So, the Constitutional Court clearly encourages the legislator to put the life partners in law, and not only that, ultimately, the same legislator, the same legislator, in all other laws, in all other laws where the marriage community and the extramarital community are mentioned heterosexual, began to equalise this precisely because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, but also because of the AKI or EU law, the legal gains of all the positions and the same-sex partners or their informal community, so why not here? Because there's no courage, only because there's no courage. What you said to the institutions is how they should act when they make a decision on you, on you as a legislator and as a legislator, it is for us to propose to you that we tell you what the criteria are. The criteria of equal access, and it is for institutions to assess who meets these professional criteria that they can be fosterers. However, the principle of equal access to the service should have been regulated by you, and you did not deliberately miss it. In addition to this issue in the Social Care Act itself, I would like to stress that the victims of domestic violence that we are particularly talking about today, because today is the International Day for Combating Family Violence in relation to the guaranteed minimum fee are entitled only to 50% guaranteed minimum fees. It is the lowest, lowest percentage to be approved by a particular group. Also, as far as victims of domestic violence are concerned, if they are located in an organized home, then they cannot be granted compensation for housing costs, which is logical at that time. However, what should be the objective of every social policy is that women should be placed only urgently on a day, two, three, in an organised apartment, immediately provided from state property or otherwise suitable apartments for them and children in which they move to live and receive if they are social cases, if they need them, means if they are below a certain threshold of assistance in terms of housing compensation. So, it's not the goal of women being in shelters for women victims of violence for a year, it's not the goal because it's institutionalization again. And I've said it already, and I'm going to repeat what I'm particularly concerned about, so the parents of children with disabilities, so what their children are asking for are full attention, 24 hours because they can't be in kindergarten or school. So they prayed and prayed for a long time to enable them to keep their child’s status unending the day of death. It's really not human or okay. Second, they asked to be provided and prescribed by law that a child should not go to an institution when they were sick but to get help in the house and you missed it. They also require full and active participation to ensure their children in both education and rehabilitation programmes, and this law will not regrettably do so. Secure. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72705	Thank you, thank you. The replica of Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72706	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I can see that you are deeply concerned about the issue of the weaker and that it is very important in your performance and the program, so I am interested in your view of the parents of the educators, the families who enter into this social care that you say is not the best. If we agree to enter into an even more difficult situation then than they were, so I would like to hear the meaning of this fight against the poor and in the 6,000 families that enter into this society which is very bad for you, here's what you have to tell us about it I believe that this fight for the weak will have a solution that these families still get adequate help. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72707	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72708	Thank you, Mr. Deur. So, firstly, it's obvious that you don't distinguish between categories of social measures that are directed at those below a certain social censorship and something that you're talking about which is a demographic measure that has nothing to do with social criteria. So she has access to everyone regardless of how much income they have. Let's get this straight. So the measure you were talking about is a measure that is not aimed at resolving social issues but at encouraging the birth of a third plus a child. But I will also say this, there are certainly those families that are, which are possible below the poverty threshold if they do not have certain fees, but these fees should go beyond social policy. And I'll be happy to tell you that I can't wait to put you up on the amendment. Now on the budget that you as HDZ introduce it to the entire country. [[Thank you very much.]] 4,700 kuna to 15 years of a child's life, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72709	Mrs. Bencic, you may, you may go to your seat. You can leave, Mrs. Bancic. You can go to a place you don't have a replica. Mr. Deur, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72710	Rules of Procedure 238, here's a colleague who hurt Rules of Procedure 238, and I'm sorry that I came to you as an ace as you said on a dime that you didn't think about those families that you put in a very difficult situation of life and that you didn't know what family meant for the Croatian homeland and that you put all your families and mothers in such a social situation that the minister, unfortunately, what you give... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72711	Thank you very much, time, time and notice, Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72712	I'm sorry you think that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72713	It was a replica, don't, just one warning to give you Mr. Deur. You have a warning because it was a replica. Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, who are you? Mrs. Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72714	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238, insult of MPs, MPs. I'll tell you like this, sir, so I'm asking you why you're denying as HDZ's government that so knows what it means to everyone else, everyone else in this country for the same fee. Why? You promised 2016 you'd bring it in, you didn't. You expect from the unit of local self-government that you stole along with Bandic, made 8 billion kuna, you expect that unit to pay above standard for what you promised to introduce in 2016, and you didn't. [[Intruder: Warning, warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72715	First warning Mrs. Bencic, first warning, okay. It'll be a second warning you know, right. You have two warnings, Mrs. Bencic, and now Mr. Deur will have because there are no.../Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72716	238, this is terrifying, an injury, an insult, here. Dear colleagues, I know that you have received something you cannot and you do not know, not you but all together, that it is no longer an asphalt to Bandic, but now you are in one position to destroy families, to destroy Croatian people. You've entered the ideology of evil, you know, you and your team. The gang is gone, and what you're doing is destroying the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72717	Mr. Deur's warning, time, time, time, Mr. Deur's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72718	You put 6,000 families on a beggar stick. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72719	It's a warning. Me now, from now on so there wouldn't be an answer to the warning, etc. As soon as I hear, as soon as I hear it's a replica, I'll interrupt you because I have that possibility. Actually, he orders the Rules of Procedure like that, but I'm a tolerance, so I don't use it often. I will now because there's no reason. - Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72720	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers and colleagues, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are talking about a set of laws that are in general the beginning of a reform of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia. I will specifically refer to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act and highlight some basic things about foster care. The Household Act entered into force on 1 January 2019. And he intended to improve foster care in the Republic of Croatia, but the number of new foster parents as well as the number of foster parents for children who were in foster care is in decline, and the needs for foster care are not diminished. We therefore expect that the proposed amendments to the Household Act will stop this negative trend and turn to the benefit of all children who need such a form of accommodation. Currently, 6074 people in foster families are located in the Republic of Croatia, 2222 of whom are children, and adults are in foster families 3852. For a total of 3112 children, accommodation is provided with one of the social service providers, whether it is a children's home, foster care, service centres in the community. The foster family provides housing, nutrition, conservation, health care, care for education, free time organization, and meeting other needs. Children without adequate parental care must be able to shape their future in order to grow into a whole healthy person capable of living on their own, and it is precisely the care of children who cannot grow up in a biological family that is a great test of humanity and empathy in the society in which we live. In the Republic of Croatia, foster care did not live evenly in the whole area, there are significant differences in certain regions. I will refer to my Lika-Senj County where we currently have only 2 foster families for children and related families, which means that children are fostered by family members, grandparents, or other relatives and 5 foster families for adults. Because of these children, accommodations are found outside the county and this is happening in the county which is already demographically devastationed and rarely populated. After accommodation outside the county, children then already adults continue to live in the environments in which they went to school and often do not return to their hometown. I also believe that foster care is a bit of a neglected topic and that these changes to the laws that go in the direction of the relaxation of the conditions for the provision of foster care and the increase of household benefits, as well as the rights of pension and health insurance should be the basis for an enhanced campaign to approach the concept of foster care to potential foster parents. I believe that it is necessary to carry out more actively the abovementioned activities in promoting foster care for children such as public stands, round tables, workshops, sharing information materials in order to bring this type of social service closer to the citizens. First of all, foster care is to show humanity, sacrifice, and genuine desire and the need to enable children to grow up in the quality and pleasant way they deserve. I believe that we all have such needs in ourselves, but sometimes we need some trigger or incentive to engage in something new and take responsibility for children who have often experienced difficult situations and trauma and engage in creating healthy and wholehearted people who can instill positive attitudes about life, work and human relationships. At the same time, while respecting all the above-mentioned foster care, it is also an opportunity for unemployed persons and families who can thus ensure existence, which is made possible through increased provision for users and compensation for fosterers. A foster family can provide the support needed to grow up worthy of each child, especially children separated from their own families. A lot of time, patience, love, and care will help such children to restore trust in people and the righteous world because each child needs and deserves a family. It is therefore necessary to develop exactly the social network of services evenly throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72721	Thank you, too. You have two, you have two replicas, Mrs. President. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72722	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, here I agree with you that we should be truly even throughout Croatia and certainly, as we have heard from previous discussions that fostering is the most important love and the real problem is finding foster families. Here I come from the north of Croatia where it's really and very densely populated, but I think we're quite developed and we probably don't have that kind of problem because we have a lot of these homes, we have a lot, every city has its own social care and we have it, and now we've just had the anniversary of celebrating the association of the sun that's in all the cities, so in Ivanac, Varazdin and Ludbreg that's really dealing with children with the special needs with a lot of love, and I think here I was on that anniversary, and I can tell you that these kids get both love and care and real family atmosphere, and that we really should be working on To educate these foster parents to report that children really feel family love. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72723	Time, Mrs. Dreven Buddinski. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72724	Thank you, colleague Budinsky. Yes, you said well, of course, that the basis, which I also mentioned, is that the basis of foster care is this one desire and the need to help children and the powerless people who can be fostered, but of course it is necessary to have some information that can be done. A lot of people are also uninvited about the possibility of fostering, and how in the northern part of Croatia and Slavonia fostering is somewhat wider than this southern part of Croatia or the local region and Dalmatia, because in us it is just perhaps a worse demographic structure of the population, and our people have more of their own older ones to worry about, so they are not ready, but in the very least, there is no such tradition of fostering so that people don't have the opportunity to see each other as much as it is actually good, human and that is why I think it takes this little stronger and a media campaign to launch.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72725	Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72726	Dear colleagues, it is not a question of fostering children and fostering adults and I know that in the surroundings of Zagreb, therefore in the eastern part of Zagreb County it is very widespread and that it all works well together. I will support anything that goes towards an increase in supply, according to the provision of professional assistance. I'm having trouble with the other kind of foster care. Households of elderly people who are high on their families where we have a lot of things in illegal that is inadmissible for this country. So we don't even know the number. There are estimated to be about 1,300 foster parents, but every day there are reports of new and new ones, and in what conditions these people live, how many there are per foster home. So we don't have relevant data on this, and we know that this institute is on the rise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72727	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72728	Certainly, fostering adults or elderly and powerless persons is important and that I believe in the system there is the possibility of fostering and for such persons and they are also used. Here's the data that I have that currently in foster families is 3852 people, that's the data from the ministry, right, that's the traditional foster home, that's 3164 people, that's the specialized foster home of 48 people, that's the family foster care of 76 people, and that's the standard foster care of 564 people. These are the data available to our Ministry of Labour and so it is, and this suggests that, on an increased need and for, also to increase the capacity of the foster family for old and powerless.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72729	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. And now we move on to the final words of the clubs. The first in front of the HDZ club is Mrs. Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72730	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, here we are at the end of this debate, what to say after so much praise and criticism for the proposed package of these laws. However, I would like to conclude that this law still offers some solutions, good solutions related to both the reduction of jobs and the burden of social workers, employment, offers reorganisation, greater compensation to users, and certainly as any law will be able to, after some time and period of application and valorise and, of course, if necessary through the impact assessments of regulations and changes. I might only if you let me remember a conference of social workers in Pula in 2018 when there were almost 1000 professionals, the conference was called "social work between policy and practice" and then we were all at the conference. They were representatives of the Faculty of Social Labour Studies here mentioned names, were representatives of chambers, trade unions, social workers' associations and policies, then as ministers, it was me. Of course, the conference has made very good discussions and conclusions that are applicable and apply and remain obligations and beyond all of us, but in a conversation that was here in a way and more freely we often talked about what was happening in the system and we all said unanimously then that the system should be changed, but we had a hard time agreeing which changes were and who should be changed, and then the system was all of us that I now counted. However, then we were all together later when the problems began, when terrible tragedies occurred, when the public sought responsibility for the failures, instead of being like the waist, we all began to share ourselves just by transferring responsibility to each other. Political shifts are not a problem, if the ministers' shifts solve problems could resign and change every day, the problems remain. So with these regulations, all together we must prevent and resolve them. What I might point out, it is that, I have the impression that exactly the profession of social workers and our work is the subject of arbitrary interpretations of almost all citizens, we are all in some way invited to comment, and we have no real insight into the problem, for the reasons why some solutions have been made. Social workers were often at the sacrifice, at the sacrifice between the media and politics, unfortunately and the means of political reckoning, and unfortunately in this debate it was seen that the same subject, although all the same jobs were only done because of political belongings, were probably both different and interpreted. They are often under pressure to adapt their professional activities to the interest of users, and this is very often in the conflict with principles, the code of professional social work. I often point out media inscriptions in my debates, I can even say hickeys in which, for the sake of unilateral views and approaches of some of our citizens, social care users have been criticised and heavy accusations have been brought on social workers very often by those in the welfare centres. These hickeys start, some shifts happen, we've had some recently this summer, and then they're quiet, as if the problems have been solved, as if someone's been satisfied in some way by calling, mudring, putting a mark on such a truly esteemed, difficult human profession, and if we keep on doing this, there's really going to be less and less of those who want to enroll in that study and do that job. And now I'm going to get to that commission, so that's when we all got up and said we believe in the profession, we believe that social workers have brought the right solutions because they have data that they can't reveal, maybe we shouldn't have this commission. But we don't trust each other, so let someone else judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72731	Mr Davorko Vidovic Club of Social Democrats Representatives, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72732	... I will not speak here as a frustrated minister who has been waiting 17 years for a reform that has been prepared and unfortunately never been implemented but today I will actually use these five minutes to be a reporter from a debate held here in the Parliament on 8 November and in which, in the organisation of the Social Democrats Club, where, apart from the representatives, they participated in the introductions and two professors, I would say the most esteemed and not only in Croatia but also beyond, [[Specially enabled.]] Nino Žganec and Prof. Dr. Zoran Šućur, with the participation of representatives of educational chambers of rehabilitation education, members of the Council of Professional... for the activities of working therapy, Croatian chambers of health workers, Croatian psychological chambers, president of the Association of the Dugina family, president of the Forum for Quality Hostage of Children, fosterers for children then vice-president of the Association of the Family with Disabilities in Development, Persons with Disabilities, Association for Information, Enlargement and Development of Social Services, etc. So, in epidemiologically limited conditions, we have gathered quite a representative set of people who can be overly articulated and professionally talk about this bill of law that we are offered. In addition to concluding that serious failures were made in the process of making a new law, therefore from the very analysis of the situation, from not respecting the assessment of the needs of all stakeholders of the system, the objectives set out were also discussed whether they were set in a good way, the process of reforming, transparency, the inclusion of stakeholders, what was today full of talk, the coherence of reform measures with the specificities of the system being reformed, compliance with the development strategy with international documents, etc. In particular, the issue of funding and management of the system and introduction was debated, and indeed completely to me incomprehensible new centralisation, so that the debate showed that we actually had a serious problem, and when the conclusions were made and the sum of this came up with a set of proposals which, given that no one from the ministry was presently present to you. Therefore, roundtable participants have proposed to develop a package of new laws that will indeed fully regulate the social care system, define the social services system needed by different user groups and their funding criteria, means what goes on to the state, what goes on in the county, local self-government, system-making in the new social services at local and regional level, strengthening the role of civil society organisations in providing social services. In our time, we were really talking about this combined social policy, about the incredible importance of civil society, of the state, of local communities as some key stakeholders of the whole process and of course strengthening decentralisation. If there's a principle of subsidiarity that makes sense, it's here. I'm afraid the social care centres that I may be a little bit of a caricure will turn out to be organized according to the principle of FINA, and not the Pension Insurance Service, just need... counters, officials who will no longer be able to do so can lead to this, thus speeding up the improvement of the entire process of deinstitutionalisation with the pre-natural design of social services in the community, the modernisation of business processes that are spoken of within the system itself, the unification and the focus of resources for social care on programmes. And now we have money and the funds are secured, but they are scattered through different systems and levels. Enabling experts in social services to provide services in accordance with professional standards, designing the most favourable social benefits scheme that corresponds to the specificities of Croatian citizens, emphasising the importance of lifelong education of experts, not through the academy but by organic means and establishing the National Social Protection Agency as a supporting part, the responsibility of the minister, is not on the profession, not on people who are Issuing thousands of these remarks [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The responsibility is on you, and I want to keep it in writing. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Vidovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72733	Mr. Silvano Hrelja, Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives, of course, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72734	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. I'll keep going where I left off. Householding older people, why is it more problematic than fostering children and adults with difficulties? Because children have no property, adults with difficulties have no property. Elderly persons have property and the foster home base is often based on life support contracts. So that's the difference that we must always have before our eyes that it's not a single foster home but that it has its own bright side, which I support, and it doesn't, and there's this other, darker side that we have to take care of and that we have to control. Yes, the system is abandoned, but we have no reason not to vote for reform laws so the water doesn't get hot. We need to get some new quality out of this excitement, if we're satisfied with the existing one, nothing will happen. We will only have revolt employees on what is proposed, and in the abandoned system does not mean that it is freed from various interests of employees within the system. So I'm glad to get out of the procedure, so they're process counseling in which there was a famous article. 248 evicted where three such contracts could be concluded for life, or a life-long, life-long, life-restraint contract, about opening up a space for a kind of real estate business. I'm glad, I'm saying, you've thrown it out of the law and there's just no one has the right to suspect that there are serious intentions here to reform the system. What I would suggest is that, apart from this law, we are also working in parallel to the prosecution of illegal and abusers of older people and large fines because it is a crime against man. It can't be something because someone is old, which is 80, 90 years old, which is powerless, that it's possible against him without punishment to carry out such acts that are inhuman. So, treating older people in an inhumane way, harassing or illegally caring for, in terms of creating material benefits, is a crime for me, and also, what I would like to have, if we could publish those who did not pay taxes, taxpayers, I would publicly publish all those who were banned from work on the basis of what they were found to be illegally engaged in certain activities. And that's about these laws, we're going to have a lot more conversations, a lot of stories, I think there's going to be a lot of good suggestions, that this is a good discussion, let there be criticism, let there be praise, let there be trouble, but there's something out there that could be a lot better than we have today. What I am interested in in in this second, this package of 5 laws, so it is from that time of Vidovic, only one law passed, it passed the Law on Psychological Activity, which in this House of the Dead Big Friganovic proposed and was adopted as such. Under this law, all laws on all activities are now being done and we will have all the chambers. Okay, I don't mind chambers, I'm against mandatory cabin membership. No matter what activity. If you're a member, if you're not a member, pay the full price of some service given to you by the chamber, but, uh, the obligation of membership I wouldn't be in any chamber, in neither the economics nor in the craftsman's or in the chamber of social workers or nurses, it's simply an inconceivable obligation for me. And what I would like not to be too normal, and here we have the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, to give a framework in those laws where chambers have to work and to give them the content of the statutes they have to adopt, that we have no laws They look like statutes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Anyway, the HNS and HSU Club will support These proposals of the law in the first reading. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72735	- Mrs. Crescent. Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72736	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues.../incomprehensible/... What? Yeah. ... [[/Intruder: Does a microphone work?]] By the time I'm on my way, let me go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear fellow MPs, here we are all day long talking about reforming the welfare system. Despite all that we have heard, I think that the direction and communication is still possible and that the direction of the reform that has started to change and that the talks on things that we have presented today should continue until the next reading and that, please, ministers, then respect what your colleagues, experts, so that's where the experts were quoted, said professors' attitudes, politicians' attitudes, the attitudes of former experts. I really think you should think this through and at least appreciate some of the suggestions. It has yet to be repeated that despite the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. in which it says it will strengthen the role of the social care centre as key actors in the social policy planned reform you go against where social care centres are abolished, and this is a document that we have really recently read here in the Parliament and adopted. So termologically, it's not just terms, but the problem is also the legal personality of all these institutions and the future organisation of the social care system. So what we had then as a direction of development is essentially the opposite of what we have now. What is certainly to be said about the Household Act means that the increase in fees and supplies is certainly good for users and fosterers, but only to offer it as a measure to popularize housing is not enough. We've had tragic cases in recent times when we've seen everything the foster parents face, and then the ministry needed and missed the opportunity to communicate absolutely what foster care is and what its role is in the social care system. I think there's really no real information in public, and that's why they don't decide on foster care. We are aware of all the difficulties of growing up in today’s environment and the challenges that parents face, and we can only assume the needs of children without parents or children without adequate parental care. It is the foster parents who face the great challenges through which to meet children and their needs, and besides taking care of a child, they are also obliged to cooperate with parents and the same settled children, which is often not an easy task, and in most cases we cannot talk about cooperating parents. We did not have time since the debate was united with a detailed passing of certain provisions of the law, but in this context, the Household Act certainly does not need to reduce the time limit for reviewing household permits, it should remain for five years because it is in fact the same additional administration by social workers, and certainly social workers are in contact with foster parents and monitoring users for sure and minimally once in six months, so that monitoring the foster homeowners is not disputed by social workers and support as much as the system currently allows, and I think that certainly extending to another five years or reducing to three years will further burden the system. What is also controversial to me is this measure of supervision of parental care prescribed as an obstacle to any household at all, it is now limited if it has been said over a period of more than three years that it is no longer an obstacle. I think this should be further discussed because if a person was once given a measure of supervision over the performance of parental care that she is actually capable of taking care of another person and child. In particular, I have to mention children coming out of the system after 18 years of schooling or finishing schooling, I think that the system should be further helped by such a young person and I appeal here to the minister of the future that he is now under him and the vault HZZ [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] that you can help these young people who come out of foster care. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72737	Thank you. Mrs. Sandra Bencic Club of Green-Left Block Representatives is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72738	Thank you. So here's the final start from where we started as a club, and that's actually an assessment of some kind of overall offered reform, and we're going to repeat once again that we can't support these bill proposals or in the first reading, and for the same reasons that the professional organizations of all five, so all five chambers, five chambers of expertise. The academic community dealing with issues related to social work and reform, but also a certain group of users. When we talked here today about this reform being centralization, that's what the substatement would say, so the system was already centralized. And by the way, the assessment of many scientists dealing with this area is that it is one of the most centralised systems in the EU, the social care system. What's going on right now is hypercentralization, hypercentralization, so what we're going to do now is we're losing legal personality after 60 years. You said today that it doesn't matter, that social care centres don't care about their legal personality at a place where they act. I've asked you a banal question, so it's one of the minor problems, but there's a much bigger one, for example, how will these local welfare centers work, for example. in the area of certain cities, together with these cities, to implement the social policy needed for this area because it corresponds to these problems and needs? How will the European Social Fund or other intra-EU competitions, such as centralised Brussels, come together, where, for example, three social care centres from Croatia want to co-operate with some social care centres from another country? Is there going to be an office, one legal person? So, I think this is a serious operational problem that they will withdraw funds from the European Social Fund. How do we get the centres to play a proactive role in implementing localised social policy, if we uniform them into a methodology, in the types of service activities they provide, if prescribed, as prescribed by these 6, as if it were the only 6. Instead of going towards agility, according to the possibility and that social care centres themselves develop new activities, innovative services, together with other partners in the community, we will bury them within a monolithic system and thus put even more social workers in the position of bureaucrats. Because what they're only going to do is what we're uniforming and bureaucratizing what they're told, equally in the territory of Croatia, and the reform was just meant to ensure that social workers can return to their call, which is working with users, it's working on creating new services, it's working on, with proactive work with other stakeholders in the community, it's not going to happen now, it's so clear. But even if you have a different view, let's say, a different theoretical view, although I don't know from who because everyone, here, the experts who wrote about the needs of social care reform in Croatia, just everyone, on either side, always said, we need decentralisation, we need flexibility in work, we need social workers to be able to do their jobs, and not fill out the papers and not be an ATM machine, literally, for payments because they've turned into that. I've got them in my family too, so I know. So even if you had some other theoretical view from somewhere, I don't know where, how did you plan to ensure that this reform was implemented when all those who need to carry it were against it? I mean, that's, that's usually in your cycle, in the political cycle of basics, if you don't have the consent of those who are going to implement your reform, the reform isn't going to happen, that's what, basically, the beginning of every policy cycle. So we also mentioned these things that are problematic in relation to users, and I'm just going to point out that it's a very problematic and guaranteed minimum compensation for a single man, which actually decreased, It should be increased to a minimum of 150% of the base. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72739	Thank you very much. Thank you, we are done with final discussions and now Minister Josip Aladrovic's proposal will have the final word, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72740	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs, MPs, so I really don't want the length at the end of this multi-hour debate, we've seen very different views on reform, very different views on the issue, first of all, I'd say, system formation, more than user status in the system itself, but therefore, we've heard what each of you or your clubs think. Definitely through this debate there have been several concrete and correct proposals that will surely be respected in the second reading, i.e. they will be respected in the very implementation of these laws, but of course some of the settings that we have laid down as the foundations of this reform also do not act as something that is acceptable to us as the legislator. What is the fact that much more debate is the system itself, I have caused a system, or future system structure, than it has done, than it has done in terms of users and certain fees. I must point out once again that we as proposings in the focus at the beginning and at the end of this reform were users, increasing compensation, better care, more quality care, more adequate care. Strengthening the system through the development of additional and separation of certain functions in the system, we also think it will be something that will cause very positive effects. Of course, between these two readings we will still talk to the interested public, so to speak to all those stakeholders of this system, as well as to you, of course, through a parliamentary debate, and I expect that in the second reading we will have even more quality documents even though we are sure that they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72741	Thank you too, stay, have a few replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72742	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, dear Ministers, at the end of all things, since I also think that the main objective of this reform should be to make a better position for users, and I think it is important for those who provide services to users to have adequate working conditions, not to be overly burdened and also to have professional support that can be obtained through improvement and in other ways, and sometimes psychological assistance in certain crisis situations, which I also think should be taken into account. I'm interested in the end now, are we going to have enough people in this system to function in a newly designed structure, or are we going to miss an expert, and we're going to have to do more professional staffing to work in the structure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72743	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72744	I thank you for asking. So as for the very adequateness of the number of employees in the social care system, we have also, through previous mandates, shared with us today by this debate in the Assembly, continuously and continuously increased the number of employees, increased, ultimately and material status of employees in the social care system, and I think that nobody, even on this side who unfortunately does not now have to listen to this debate, can deny it. What is before us all, the fact is, too, is the fact that we have certain shortcomings in terms of professional work, this lack we will cover in the open labour market, hire the necessary and adequate experts and as a government actually show concern for this system. Whether there is space and opportunity to save and in humane terms because of the process centralisation of certain processes, probably, but at this point, users are focused, and everything else comes afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72745	- Mrs. Crescent. Grba-Bujevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72746	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, please take a look to the left. It's unfortunate that no one and the opposition are here when they have a chance to talk to you again after the whole day we've spent here. I find that sad, but I want to say something else. That the problem with the welfare system, as I see it, as a difficult system and a complex system is the fragmentation of that system. That is why I strongly support the idea of the Croatian Institute for Social Work. Why? Because it will strengthen professional work, because it will equate treatment, and now you have to agree with me that it's very different for social care centres, professional supervision, but what I really don't understand is why someone thinks they're going to disappear social care centers by local administration units and self-government, so no one's going to take them anywhere, they're just going to be stopped, which I think is certainly a good step towards one of those thorough work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72747	Thank you. Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72748	I therefore thank you for the question and for apostrophe of this additional topic because it is unlikely that some in the parliamentary debate can be made clear by the end of what is the urgency or what is going to happen in the units of local and regional self-government in matters of the centres or branches of the office itself. So what is very important is to point out that territorially there will not be any place where the services themselves from the social care system will be abolished, but rather, by developing additional social services and by expanding that network, we expect that the rights of the social care system will be more accessible. They will, in addition to being more accessible, be more uniform, that is, the establishment of both the family centre and the academy and the Croatian Institute of Social Labour will make all services from the social care system more accessible, better quality and uniform, and that is what is most essential in terms of the reform itself and the context of the reorganisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72749	Thank you, ma'am. Porniæ-Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72750	Thank you, Vice-President, respected ministers, here is the teaching of what a colleague of Grba-Bujevic began to say, we have heard a lot of objections today in the territorial structure of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, however, the Croatian Institute for Social Work as a public institution will perform the jobs in those businesses which he has done so far, of which we have, in areas where they have been performed by social care centres so far. So this is about 21 district services, 75 district offices and 22 outposts, which means that territorial availability remains the same, and it is precisely the reduction of new public powers where the Croatian Institute for Social Labour is relieved and parts of financial transfers, the issue of various certificates and administrations, that will make it even more possible to work with the users, which are why they actually exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72751	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72752	I thank you for the question, I have given a partial answer to my colleague before, but it is not bad to point out exactly these two trends that will be positive, we are safe from the context of users, one is an increase in the number of employees, an increase in the number of professionals in the centres themselves, that is, the Institute for Social Work, and on the other hand, we have a reduction in the public powers performed in those same areas. This releases additional work, additional work, additional people who will work with users, and on this side certainly a higher number of employees to the same number of users or fewer users will lead to more quality, more up-to-date, more adequate, and on the other hand, given organisational changes and more uniform.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72753	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dreven Buddinski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72754	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here we heard today, the old law, the young minister, that you had, uh, the courage to make this reform, which, here it is, is supposed to be 30 years, so I, I think they were very surprised by all of it and I was just curious today when I was listening to their discussions, they did consult, so I'm interested, they said they had 2,000 objections and I don't know what. So I'm curious, Minister, who did you advise to pass such a good law with?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72755	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72756	Well, I will not, thank you for asking, but in the opening speech and in the replicas I have answered your question in part, but once again I will mention, so the National Council for Social Policy Development is the first body with which we have consulted on the action plan for improving the social care system, so one body that contains the academic community, representatives of associations, chambers, civil society associations, representatives of cities, counties, municipalities, really one very charming but very complete composition of all those who are part of the social care system. Each of these legal proposals, 7 of the legislative proposals that we have proposed, i.e. put into debate in the Assembly, had its working group, in this working group were also experts from certain areas, a very, very broad group of people working on these legal proposals and therefore we believe that they are adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72757	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Vesna Bedekovic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72758	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to say that I find this syntagma of my colleague, the old law, the young minister, and here, I agree, indeed, with her and she supports... Yes, yes, yes, I support, indeed, the adoption of all of these, this whole reform law package, why? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was convinced myself that the social care system, very, very, very complex, is very fragmented with a large number of users who need to be focused and we all agreed. Firstly, users, improving their service quality, reducing the poverty threshold, etc., etc. The second thing, the reform is a long and comprehensive process, it doesn't go overnight, and the basis of its laws, but something we haven't discussed, I'm sorry that this side of the assembly is empty, we haven't discussed the basis, these reform laws, which is the material state of our social care centres. In this past term, the government has them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] 13 built, raised wages, raised coefficients [[Thank you, ma'am. Bedekovic.]] and enhanced employment [[Intruder: Thank you.]] workers in the system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72759	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72760	Yeah, I can definitely agree with you. What we haven't really touched at all today is what has been done over the past few years in the system itself, and this is a material solution to individual spaces, you've mentioned, 13, another billion kuna is currently through the IRDF investments, so billions of kunas in the infrastructure of the social care institutions themselves, the official status of employees in the social care system has been increased, material rights and wages in the activities of the social care system have been significantly increased, the number of employees in the system itself has increased, if you look at financial indicators or indicators towards users, constantly and continuously reducing the rate of persons who are in serious material deprivation and at risk of poverty. So that's all the policy of this government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic over 2 mandates, the reform is just one logical sequence and this sequence and we will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-25-0.u72761	Thank you. Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm closing the debate on these points, seven points were there, and we'll vote when the conditions come down and wait until you see what happens tomorrow morning. [[Applause.]] Tomorrow morning will be the final proposal... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] One second, one more second of patience. Tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m., we have the Final Proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS section, and then we have a report by the Attorney General. Thank you very much. Have a nice rest and comfortable. Session interrupted at 20.01 hours.
