ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u42830	Now it's Mrs. Vukovac's turn to present the position of the House Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u42831	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, therefore false documentation and conflict of interest and the assignment of work through a relationship are ways of misusing European money in Croatia. It was published in its latest report by the European Anti-Fraud Office. Resuming the fraud detected by OLAF in the office last year, two who illustrate how users are trying to cheat domestic and European Union institutions. The first case referred to the construction of a 3m-euro winery and showed that manipulation or circumvention of procurement procedures is often used to hide conflicts of interest. The OLAF investigation focused on a project co-financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund through which more than 1.3m euros were allocated to the company concerned. Neither according to national nor under the law of the European Union, the company was obliged to publish an invitation to compete for the selection of contractors. However, national legislation prohibits users from selecting performers if there is a conflict of interest in particular when there are personal or business links between the customer and the contractors, as well as between their owners. OLAF's investigation has shown that these rules have been ignored. The customer company awarded a contract to build a company without employees who signed a contract with a company owned by the owner's son. OLAF discovered that the only purpose of this maneuver was to hide the obvious conflict of interest. Following the closure of the investigation, OLAF recommended the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development to recover a full amount of just over 1.3m euros as well as the DORH to initiate criminal proceedings against the performers' and subcontractors' users. He also recommended the general administration to address the administrative weaknesses in the Republic of Croatia, so in our Croatian Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which are obviously of the past and often spoken of in this higher home. Making false documents to cover up the lack of work done is another method of fraud that OLAF found in Croatia. One company led three projects co-financed through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and the European Social Fund, with the aim of providing rehabilitation services to people with mental and physical problems in rural areas with limited access to social services. OLAF found that only 7% of the total cost of work was carried out in some of the pre-determined activities. At that time, the completion rate was never higher than 50% despite the company’s claims for compensation, or for the payment of 100% of the work covered by the false documentation according to which the whole business was shown as completed. OLAF recommended that the main administration of the European Commission for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion restore the full amount of 562,000 and 956 euros and recommended to the DORH to initiate the criminal proceedings. After such reports for a reason, the Croatian people wonder, can we fall lower? And of course, what is the responsibility of our institutions which are accredited bodies for the implementation of European Union competitions and funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u42946	Thank you, it is now up to Mrs. Sandra Bencic, who will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u42947	Thank you. Today I am actually going to talk about one topic that we are not dealing with enough at either the legislative level or this settlement, which is the position of older people in Croatia. Croatia could also call a country where there is no room for old people, because when we look at the situation of older people and materially, but also in access to public goods and services, we must really say that neither the Parliament nor the government have done enough for them so far. So according to the quality of life of older people, Croatia was on the 61st of the 96th rankings, on the Global Age Watch scale in 2016. The obstacles to dignity are many, but in Croatia it is indeed one of the key obstacles to poverty. I'm just going to use a number to show you what it looks like. So, according to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, for May of this year, the average pension of those beneficiaries who have made their pension under the Pension Insurance Act, so we're talking about retirement pensions, so people who have worked and earned their pension. Thus, the average pension amounted to 2 581 kuna, with a total of 1,145 493. The average age pension is therefore slightly more than a third of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that even the average salary does not cover what would be paid for a decent life. Even worse than that, we have 92 281 older people, the users of retirement pensions that amount to poor 234 kunas. 234 kuna! Another 62 600 users with an average pension of only 752 kuna per month. So we're talking about us having about 150 thousand older people, insurance companies, pensioners living, who receive less than a thousand kunas a month. Whether it's possible to live off those amounts, we know it's not. Is it possible to live off the average pension, no. The average pension is even slightly lower than the amount that represents the poverty line, or the risk of poverty. Average pension. So, precisely because of poverty and the fact that our average age pension is less than the amount of risk to poverty comes to frequent situations of exploitation and confiscation of the property of older people, fraud and I would also say that they become increasingly victims of different interest agencies and those who are not really informing them about their rights, take away what they can take away. As early as 2016, the Ombudsman gave 9 recommendations to improve the situation of older people in Croatia, from the fact that the number of extra-institutional social services for older people should be increased, not done enough, still 97% of older people living in their family environments do not have any social services in the community. More up-to-date recognition of the right to retire, introduce state support for the elderly without any income, also ensure the application and modern technologies with traditional ways of informing older citizens about their rights and their obligations. They also stated that it is important to regulate informal care normally, so from 17%, about 17% of people aged 35 to 49 years, so the working and working-age population cares about older members of their family, and very often because of this they are unable to actually enter the labour market, and they do not get any compensation for it. One of the key things was to do transparent waiting lists for, in older and powerless homes, we know how long it's been waiting for you at home, we know that if you have a real last name you get right now, if you don't have one if you don't have one for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u42948	Thank you very much. Ms. Anka Mrak Taritaš will be the position of the Centre and Glass Representatives Club. Here you go, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43030	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the highlights in yesterday's parliamentary speeches was the question of the resolution of our former counterpart, and now the Euro Representative Fred Matic on the state of sexual and reproductive health and rights in the European Union. I, I must say quite frankly, was ashamed of the speech of some fellow MPs who were yesterday. I think that Croatia should be proud that such a text in the European Parliament is proposed by one of our fellow representatives from Croatia. Instead, a part of us gets up on our backs and screams crazy from a pay phone. It is, of course, the right of every citizen, and then, in particular, the right of every parliamentary representative. But I'm taking the right to have an opinion on it. One of the things that was said yesterday was that the European Parliament is overstepping its powers which is not true in the first place, and the second is not in line with reality. Because the European Parliament is the representative body of the citizens of the European Union, which includes Croatian citizens and has the right to discuss and bring documents on any subject it deems necessary. A completely different story is the directives and regulations adopted together with the Council in the prescribed legislative procedure. But this isn't the case. And secondly, this particular issue is something that must be discussed in the European Union, because European institutions must be able to protect their citizens' rights when Member States do not want to do so on their own. Well, that is one of the important functions of the European Union and for people living in some Member States, which unfortunately includes Croatia, it is fortunate that so. Otherwise let's see what that resolution is about. The resolution is not only about abortion, but also the right to sexual and reproductive health. She advocates the introduction of sexual education into school. It seeks access to infertility treatment for all, equal care for all pregnant women and births, protection against birth-related violence and again calls for the abolition of the menstrual tax. The menstrual tax is one of the topics I have been working intensively on lately, i.e. in the case of the Republic of Croatia, I am going with the proposal for a VAT reduction law on hygienic cartridges and tampons. I have twice referred to the parliamentary procedure such a proposal, and in this conference, I have received the signatures of colleagues and colleagues from left to right, and I am grateful to everyone for this support. Of course, the ruling majority of the proposal, as each time so far, have refused. I'd like to have heard from those who threw trees and stones at the Resolution yesterday about these topics she deals with. This resolution deals with extremely important topics, but of course we didn't hear it because obviously those who needed to speak are not interested in anyone's rights, or anyone's life, or anyone's health, but what they're interested in is just insisting on medieval dark dogs that are incompatible with both life and health and happiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43093	Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Pauliche. Okay. Pauliche.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43094	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here, three days ago in Croatia was marked Antifascist Fight Day where he attended a good part of the state summit with the country's president, with the prime minister, with several ministers at the central event in Brezovica. There were also presidents of certain political parties, there were representatives of national minorities, representatives of anti-fascist associations, all of them came to bow down to the anti-fascists in II. svt. The war, their sacrifice and the same anti-fascism was one of the major movements throughout Europe right in the territory of Croatia and this same anti-fascism was incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But thanks to the Croatian defenders, today we live in a free Croatia and we can talk about this dark side of antifascism, which was not to be talked about for 45 years, for which you could have ended up on a naked island as a state enemy or even run out of head. And that dark side is like this anyway. These same anti-fascists who are cooking in the stars these days are responsible for one of the greatest massacres of the Croatian people, Bleiburg and Crossroad, where about 60 thousand Croats were executed without any court. These same anti-fascists committed the slaughter of prominent citizens by breaking the world’s front. That's right, like in Vukovar in April of '45. In just a few days, 300 prominent Vukovars were killed when the same anti-fascists, they say, freed the city of Vukovar. The same situation was in Vinkovci and Djakov and Osijek, these same anti-fascists expelled nearly half a million Germans, Volksdeutscher from their centuries-old hearths in Vojvodina, Baranja, Slavni and Srijem. These same anti-fascists occupied the apartments of the prominent Zagrebans in just a few days and copied them into their possessions. These same apartments today enjoy their children and their grandchildren. These same anti-fascists have done a lot of evil to that same Croatian people. Also today, representatives of these anti-fascist associations say that anti-fascists have hit the foundations of today's modern Croatian states, that they have just returned to Croatia's Dalmation, Istria that no one will dispute, but they do not say that these same anti-fascists, thanks to their policy, have missed certain Croatian ends forever for some of the other eastern Srijem, without talking about Boka Kotorska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. History has never been black and white. Let's talk openly about the good and the bad, and I expect that all these representatives of the state summit who were in Bezovica three days ago will also be found in that same number if not larger in the Croatian people's sites where the rebutted Croats are precisely from those anti-fascists starting from the Breiburg Victims' Commemoration to a number of other sites throughout our beautiful. Let's not look all uniformly, let's not look at all black and white. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43183	And Mr Arsen Bauk will be the position of the SDP Representatives Club. Me, Mr. Prickin, to me, directly to me, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This morning from 9:30, so here's 3 and a half hours and there will be a debate on the election of the Supreme Court president. The judiciary, as is known in the perception of citizens, is one of the weakest traits of state authorities and citizens, in fact, have the least trust in the judiciary, and not only of the citizens, but also of many institutions dealing with the evaluation of certain qualities that Croatian citizens have in the service of the state and as it has said in the name of the SDP Club today and therefore for competitiveness and for everything that makes normal life even more normal, and it is paradoxical that before the election of the President of the Supreme Court, the election was under the slogan of normal, so that this is the most important topic we are dealing with today, and we managed to draw this story on the story of World War II. Now, this is 2021 the first day of January was Friday and the calendar was the same as 1943 when it was also the first day of Friday. We know that on Brač because we can use this '43 calendar for 2021, but you shouldn't, it shouldn't be a topic. In this country, we find every topic that is most vital in life to return to World War II. For this reason, I need to remind you of a part in pop culture that is quoted, so I ask you to spare me the reminders, and the following is: “In the assembly this morning the same fatism whose dad was a Ustasha and whose partisan. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43185	And why would it be a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43186	Well, because of the word "breathing," I don't think that's common.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43187	For what word?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43188	You didn't hear right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43189	I didn't hear you, then there's no warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43190	You got away with it. I can do it again, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43191	Let me hear it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43192	So, the quote goes “to the assembly this morning with the same dungism whose dad was a Ustasha, whose partisan. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43193	All right, let's move on, come on, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43194	So, maybe there's a problem word this morning because it's neither afternoon nor evening spared by it, but the topic that was the one that was most important for the future has come down to us again who was to hand over the refugees, has anyone reported on, has anyone let anyone suggest it a month or a month later and of course this topic about World War II. They say there's no salvation for us some claim we produced it ourselves, and some claim it's God's punishment is another quote from this. My colleagues and colleagues, since the debate on the election of the President of the Supreme Court will now continue, and a lot of the quality team remains in individual debates, let's turn this debate into a metric to what the President of the Supreme Court should do tomorrow, how we will choose it next time, etc., and not return to '41, '45, all the luck we didn't have an active role in World War I who knows how much more of this would go back. In order not to talk about us as Atlantis, it is my humble message to someone who has clear attitudes about that period, but there is no need to bring them up every day and on every subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43285	You, too. Mrs Grozdana Peric will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43286	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of my club I want to say something about tourism and the impact of Covid-19 on the economy and tourism as such. We are aware of what happened over the past year and a half and how much Covid-19 itself has affected the revenues of the state budget, which meant budget expenditure and that more than 34 billion kuna has been recorded so far. It is very important to note how much work has been preserved by all the government measures that have taken to keep more than 600,000 employees in employment. But also how much the costs were for the healthcare system and the increased costs related to Covid-19. Last weekend or last weekend more than 330 thousand arrivals were recorded in the Republic of Croatia and thus the Republic of Croatia is clearly a safe country. However, we cannot stop ourselves from being sure and thus being able to relax completely and do nothing to keep it. Special efforts have just been made by the Government and by the Minister of Tourism and Ministry where the programme... and Croatia is actually enabled to make this positive echo recognized in Europe. We are a destination that is easily available by car and thus is our great comparative advantage. When we know that tourism is more than 20% of GDP, then it is very important for Croatia to keep and maintain this trend and thus continue to send a message to the public and to the countries in the environment that we are safe. We have to note that last year, no case of infection occurred in hotels or camps or in the commercial sector. That should go on in this year. So when we look at that period that over 57% more arrivals than last year and 58% more overnight, then it's a good sign that we have to keep pretty much. We know that in 2019 there were over 12 billion kuna revenues from tourism. We are far below that compared to last year, but what we certainly need to support and point out is that we also need to take as much as possible to split up as many people as possible. So far, it is 43% in the Republic of Croatia, although the average of the European Union is around 55%. In the surrounding countries that have much more traffic and revenues from tourism, it is 62 and 57%, for example, Italy and Spain. Therefore, while we are currently in a position to have a very good relationship between those infected with the test, of only 2.2 of the percentages, this still needs to be insisted and enlightened that what we can do is to provide us with a longer and safer summer and development and tourism and the economy, to increase this splitness, thus more and more health care professionals and tourist workers and all, all sectors that have recognised that this is exactly what they have done and that is why here, I appeal once again to the general public to be vaccinated because the availability of the vaccine is very large and it has been particularly important lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43387	It is the first to be Mr. Marin Miletic in front of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43388	Dear Vice President, Mr. Radin, dear Mr. Bukarica, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian peoples write in the book of old Sirah without thinking, do nothing, and you will not regret it afterwards. At first, my parents were vaccinated against Covid, and my personal view is that everyone has to be free to decide whether to vaccinate or not. It is also totally inadmissible and the non-democratic atmosphere that has been created, anyone who dares to think is being labelled differently. These heavy labels often go right under the belt, people are deliberately dified and excluded from any process of dialogue and I believe that it is dangerous for democracy. I've had some correspondence with my colleague Bojan, and I think it's important that we talk, so eventually, and see where we're wrong and say that's where we're wrong, if we're wrong, if we see it, is it, by our conscience. Where misunderstandings do not resolve, problems arise. The second opinion doesn't exist, what an audience et alter pars as if it's gone somewhere in the cracks of the crown. The Covid narrative took on the characteristics of cult character, informed consent, freedom as if it had disappeared in our health and political discourse. I would allow myself to say, covidoidologists, as if they created a covidor religion. Covidorolegia has its sacraments. He has his own eclesiology. He's got his own loud prophets. The naked islands, thank God, are gone for now, but an obvious attempt at marginalization is being made to limit human rights so that people literally get blackmailed. For now, we're playing with emotional blackmails, and soon we'll be witnesses to what border they'll go to, if the border hasn't been crossed long ago. A human cannot be a guinea pig of the pharmaceutical industry, it is not moral or ethical to examine on a human person the effectiveness of a particular medicinal product. Douglas Farrow, a university professor, Dr. Theology and Ethics says, just as you can choose, eat or fast, give or not give, without necessarily falling into sin, so you can choose vaccination, but you can choose inoculation, you can choose inoculation without falling into sin. The decision in vaccination, I quote further, requires reflection, good advice, a sound court, not appeal to duty. A reasonable soul owns its own body and, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, this court always belongs to family and individuals, and never belongs to church or civil authority. Never. The Italian philosopher Stefano Fontana says, a person who would have had sufficient motivation to know that the vaccine from the beginning was a political and ideological choice for which other therapeutic options were sacrificed, at least potentially useful, and not one primarily health decision, would have the duty to oppose this intention by not subject to vaccination. The greatest moral theologian, Prof. Dr. Tonči Matulić, at least in Croatia, says, quote, and this vaccination, like any other, should remain an ad libitum of the individual against seasonal flu. My point is that vaccination of children is inadmissible. The EU regulator has decided to vaccinate our children for 12-15 years even though the mortality of the population is less than 20 years old, only, Croatian peoples, 0.0000002%. So what are we talking about? What are we talking about? Obviously, this isn't about protecting children because it's a risk for young people to get Covid. 93 Israeli doctors wrote an open letter to the public, quoting only a part, we believe that even a handful of children should not be threatened with a vaccine against a disease that is not dangerous to them. It cannot be excluded that the vaccine will have long-term harmful effects that have not yet been detected, including impact on growth, reproductive system or fertility. It is necessary to allow vaccination of risk populations, and with almost full vaccination of this population, it is possible to return to everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43389	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Miletic, thank you, time [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. Mr Milan Vrkljan will present his position as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was already speaking in part today's debate about the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of Gold. However, part of the subject is simply being poured out and cannot be separated from one another, and that is why I have needs. I didn't mean to talk about this today, I thought I'd talk about something else, but today after the debate as he said by young counterpart Jaksic, who only walked into communism, I have needs to look back on the topic once more and there are no two days that we have marked, celebrated, gave him the importance of going to the 60th and some Croatian citizens in the forest of Brezovic. And it should be recalled at the time that this happened in Europe was a war of two totalitarian systems of communism and fascism and the Croatian people were determined by saving their heads for one or another option. And it should be said that yesterday both the president and the prime minister were there partly accompanied by applause, but also partly excavated, at one point a combat activist made a very ugly curse on Plenkovic when he mentioned Alojzi Stepinca that tells of a struggle that is not appropriate today in 2021. However, these 60 and some Croatian citizens were thinking in '45. The year they set off in the forest of Bezovica. I'm sure they didn't think five years after that would be '45. the years they and their followers come to Zagreb and tear down the monument of Ban Jelačić. I'm convinced they're '45. When they went to Brezovic, they had no idea that their policy, their movement of partisans and communists would go to Zagreb to move 5,000 citizens of the City of Zagreb out of their apartments who had waited for the end of the war that they felt nothing guilty and had not participated in any combat operations and had experienced that 20,000 Zagrebs had been evicted from their apartments in 2 weeks. It is, they were hordes of partisan-Communist who entered Zagreb and persecuted all people not by the criteria whether they were politically active, but by the criteria whether they liked their property. Even more banal and rougher way was that it happened in a small underbelith village of Karlobag, where in 1814 Šime Starčević wrote the first spell of Croatian language in Croatian. And that should be proud of all of us Croats and those who have just walked into communism and say they have not been educated enough. The man marked Croatian history. What happened? The powers of 20 of them with rifles entered Karlobag and their political commissioner took them immediately to the place where the monument was Šimi Starčević, knocked him down and threw him into the sea. Shortly after that, in Zagreb, Hebrang was arrested and taken to Belgrade, tied to a radiator chain and beat only because he said he wanted to and that the Croats had the right to their own state. Well, at the very least, the left hand must and the time will come that it will have to be obvious that Franjo Tudjman, who was an undisputed leftist and communist and sat with your comrades together at the table in '91. year from your president sentenced and accused as a man with dangerous intentions only because he said he wanted and that the Croatian people had the right to their country. I do not define myself here between antifascism and fascism, I define myself here and claim that Croatia needs a courteous Croatia, not a Balkan Croatia, and there is no left or right in Croatia. Nor are you left-wings, nor are there right-wings here only those who want Croatia to be governed by the rule of law and a country in which the legal gains of Western civilizations will be transferred directly to our daily lives And that we will not be citizens of another [[Thank you very much.]] Orders in Europe. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43471	Thank you very much. Mr. Glavasevic, no no you can go to the place it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, there is no replica, please. Mr. Glavasevic, are you sure? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43472	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will quote Article 238, but I will not be silent about this revisionism in this assembly and this division of people on you and your president, we Croats and you who have just walked into communism. It's embarrassing, it's unworthy of the Croatian Parliament and the people sitting here in the Homeland War were civilian victims of a war whose families were murdered by Mr. Vrkljan. Shame on you, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43473	Mr. Glavasevic, no, I know you know that I have to warn you, but please I will give you my word because I have to, and I will give you my word, but this Mr. Glavasevic this is a free speech, everyone answers for their words if it does not offend anyone, individually here it represents a position that someone thinks is offensive I say I will not enter into that topic, this I must give that warning because it is not a matter of this Rules of Procedure, it does not say the truth either, do you understand. And Mr. Vrkljan probably follows your destiny as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43474	Maybe not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43475	Or maybe not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43476	I will only refer to Article 238, which says that you as chairman must ensure order, peace and conditions for the work of parliamentary representatives, and also parliamentary representatives cannot, must not, nor should you directly refer to another parliamentary representative but only to you as president, and this is the simplest form of argument in which I ask you to intervene and maintain the dignity of the assembly. I understand that these lefties are [[Thank you very much.]] They were hit hard by the debates because no one had told them for 45 years. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u43477	Mr. Vrkljan time, time, Mr. Wrkljan only for that reason should give you a warning, only for the sake of time, but you abuse consciously, and this course you have another warning and as you can see I was right, I have no right at all but this time I had.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46617	We will now interfere with the following point, which is: - Selection, appointments and resolutions, so I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46618	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the meeting of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, several proposals for decisions were made. The decision to elect a member and suspend the term of office of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected as a member, since Tomislav Tomašević has put his term of office in office. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President and the termination of the term of office of Vice-President of the Committee on the European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Darko Sobota is elected future Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee Domagoj Ivan Milosevic will cease to act in accordance with Article 10(4). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the day when the decision to suspend the parliamentary term of office is passed by the assembly. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Danica Baricevic will be elected in the future, a member of that committee, on the day when a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic is suspended. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of membership and termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, the Master's Office Marko Pavić will be elected as a member on the day of the Croatian Parliament's decision on the termination of the parliamentary term. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee for the Economy, a member of the Committee, Danica Baričević, is hereby dismissed, and Majda Buric and Master of the Board of Economy Miro Totgergeli, future member of the Committee on Economy, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will cease to act on the day when the Croatian Parliament adopts a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office. Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee of Sandra Bencic is hereby dismissed and Rada Boric is elected as a member of the Board of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Vice-Presidents and the election of Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, Vice-President of this Committee Darko Saturday, and Majda Buric is elected vice-president. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly, Urša Raukar Gamulin is elected, and since he has left that member of the Committee Tomislav Tomašević for his term of office. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Emil Daus is elected as a member of the Committee, as of 10 June due to the stay of the parliamentary term of office, Tulio Demetlika has left the post. The proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality is resolved by a member of Grozdana Peric, named Majda Buric as a member. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Emil Daus is elected as a member, since Tulio Demetlika has left the post for his term of office. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament in the interparliamentary union, Urša Raukar Gamulin is elected, as Tomislav Tomašević left the post for the term of office. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Prizes for Science, for members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Awards for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff, is named academician Željko Reiner Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Nina Obuljen Koržinek Minister of Culture, academician Velim Neidhardt, president of HAZU, academician Angelko Akrap, Faculty of Economics, University of Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Vlado Guberac Rector of the University of Osijek, Prof. Dr. Amir Hamzić prof. emeritus Faculty of Natural-Mathematic Sciences in Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Janko Herak, Faculty of Pharmaceutical and Biochemistry, University of Zagreb, Prof. dr. Branko Jeren, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing of the University of Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Stipan Jonjic, Faculty of Medicine, University of Rijeka, Prof. Dr. Stipe Kutleša, Institute of Philosophy Zagreb, Prof. Dr. Nedeljko Perić, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing University of Zagreb, academician Slobodan Vukičević, Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb. The president of the Croatian Committee, who is also chairman of the Committee and Minister of Science and Education, are members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science by Position. The current members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Prizes for Science appointed by the Decision on the appointment of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Awards have expired within the legal period of 4 years of 11.11.2020 and have expired their legal term of office. The decision, as well as all decisions so far, will also be published in the National Journal, and will take effect on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46619	Thank you very much. Stay, we even have one replica, it hasn't exactly happened this long, at least as long as I remember, but the replica has a respected representative named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46620	Thank you. Ma'am. President of the Committee. You have read everything the Committee has decided, which is fine, but you have not read what the Committee has refused to decide, which is the same because it is not the subject, but I will have to ask you. So my proposal was to get Mr. Silvano Hrelja rid of the post of vice president of this election and appointment committee because he moved to the ruling, and that committee belongs to the opposition. According to an inter-party agreement, and its transition has not changed so much that it and that place belong to the ruling ones. My question is, why did HDZ representatives reject this proposal in this committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46621	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46622	Thank you very much. You know very well that in the course of the vote you have sent an update on the agenda, I mean exactly when we were at the end of that vote. The MPs refused to complete the agenda, and therefore, it does not say that they did not adopt your proposal. Namely, my colleague, I think that when it was the Committee's last session or when I explained here in the assembly, it also proposed decisions from this Committee, however, you also pointed out, also in the not knowing, in the debate or in the replica that there is, here, an excellent practice where clubs negotiate with each other and on the post of vice-presidential or chair of certain committees, and that, here, always, it worked successfully and I really welcome it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46623	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder: But it wasn't prepared now.]] I would like to thank the presidents of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. [[Intruder: I will be next time.]] I am opening the debate and reported on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the respected representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46624	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Vice President. President, I'm sorry, you're saying that a little, well, well, well. I'll concentrate. Leaving the phone booth, did you get any idea it was gonna be next time, I'm fine, this one? You can't replicate me, you have to contact me again on behalf of the motionor. ... You gave the impression that this would be the next time and I would be happy with that part of your answer, but I am not satisfied with the part of the answer when you objected to me that I sent it too late because we.../incomprehensible/... since it is a session through mail, which should not be a practice, but it is more or less acceptable in this case because the representatives were manifesting themselves on the proposal to supplement the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If I had sent it late, the secretary of the Committee or you could have answered me, we can't decide now because you sent it late, it will be on the agenda next time and all, so my proposal was also voted on by my colleague Kujundzic from the Bridge and I were in favour, and my colleagues from the HDZ were against it. Secondly, as regards the agreement of clubs, so I just co-ordinated the opposition clubs to the agreement and that place was won by the HSS-HSU Club as part of the opposition and there was traditionally Mr. Hrelja, nominates, but on Friday he moved to the ruling and he by default can no longer be on the basis of an inter-party agreement and I wanted to spare you his criticism to defend, save the other Temple because he crossed you, so it turns out. So it's very simple. Opposite place, you're no longer an opposition, a goodbye, and thank you for your cooperation. Give me a place from your quota or don't give him anything, all right. So that's the only question I wanted to ask at the Committee's session and I wanted to, of course, address it in the assembly so that it was clear what it was about. The issue is that the parliamentary majority rejects the opposition's proposal to be resolved by someone who is no longer in opposition from the post agreed on by the opposition club, and that is that. If we're going to have an attitude, here's what I see is that the president of the HDZ Club has come forward, that it will be done next time, and I will accept it as a logical explanation and I will still not compromise. If that's not the way it's gonna be, every appointment debate will start then with a lex Hrelja until it gets boring either the Hrelja or you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46625	The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, honourable representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I respect and appreciate this zeal and speed that my colleague Bauk, on behalf of the SDP Club, would have resolved from the post of Vice-President of the Committee for the Election and Designation of his colleagues, and it is clear that in the ruling majority, as well as in the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, we have never entered any human resources based on practice, including the Rules of Procedure of the HS are in the jurisdiction of opposition clubs. What I can only say is that Mr. Silvano Hrelja is a member of the HSS Club, still, if I'm not mistaken. Therefore, it would be correct if the proposal for the resolution of colleagues of Hrelja had been directed by the HSS Club because we do not know how and in what way in this particular proposal of yours, which you, as a member of the club or vice-president of the SDP Club, will be proposed to the Committee for Selection and Appointment. And the minimum correctness by the chairman of the Committee and the members of the Committee on Selection and Designation is that this initiative also shows the club of which is still a member of Mr Silvano Hrelja. With this, we at the HDZ Representatives Club have no problem with the fact that when the HSS Club agreed within opposition clubs and opposition representatives that the Committee on Sources and Appointing in this case acted as its parent club suggested and today it seemed to me that at the meeting of the Committee on Sources and Appointing and to us in the Club of Representatives and members of the Board of Elections and Appointing, there was no need to break through the knee, but that this situation would surely be resolved by the next vote. We will not and have no intention as the HDZ Representatives' Club to anyone in this House, not one opposition club or HSS or any other, to take something that is in the quota of opposition. One representative more or less, it seems to me that he will not change the relationship at the presidential and vice-presidential posts in the parliamentary working bodies, not in the other bodies appointed by HS, but it is still correct for the club from which he comes and where he is still Mr. Silvano Hrelja would be correct to have the Committee for the Selection and Designation of the waiting position of his club and then to resolve it. Nothing will be obtained in Parliament 2 or 5 or a month or 20 days sooner or later. We'll wait for what Mr. Hrelj has to say, which is what the HSS Club is going to say, and then we'll set ourselves up at the HDZ Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u46627	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it the same way when the conditions are met. And for today, we'll be done with our work, and we'll continue our work tomorrow on Friday, June 25th at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the second item will be the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020 and at 12 o'clock will be the vote on certain points. Thank you very much, and I want a nice afternoon. Session interrupted at 15.24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u52995	Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we move to the first item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities has asked me to postpone today's debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020. I accepted her application, and we will also discuss it tomorrow as the first point instead of the report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2020. that we're going to discuss in another term, maybe next week. As a second point today, there will be choice, appointment and resolution because we have some other changes and suggestions that we need to discuss. We are now moving to the first point of today's HS session, which is: -The proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The promoter is the president of the Republic of Croatia. The election procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is governed by the article. No. 119st century 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 44, 44a. and 44b. The law on courts shall apply to it the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the HS of Art. 214. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with that selection procedure, the following steps consisted of: 1. The election procedure has been initiated by the DSV pursuant to Article. 44a. St. 1. The law on courts by publishing a second public call after the first public call did not result in the election of the Supreme Court president. 1. The DSV shall comply. 44a. ct. 4. The law on courts delivered to the President of the Republic of the application arrived on a public call. 1. On the basis of the same Article of the Law, the Office of the President requested a preliminary opinion on candidates from the General Meeting of the Supreme Court and the Justice Committee of the HS. 1. The general session of the Supreme Court held on 18 May did not give a positive opinion for any candidates. 5. At the 17th session held on 8 June following the debate, the HS Justice Committee did not give a positive opinion to any candidate. Six. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall, on the basis of the provision of an article, be appointed by the President of The constitution of the Republic of Croatia sent to the president HS a proposal for a decision on the election of Zlata Djurdjevic as president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Seven. According to Art. Article 224(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: Within 15 days, the Rules of Procedure of the HS included in the draft agenda the adopted draft decision which we will now discuss. I would ask the first representative of the Justice Committee to further explain the board's opinion from the session, as I said, which took place on 8 June, please. I'm sorry, I didn't announce you, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Michelle Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u52996	Good afternoon, everyone. So for the first time, the Justice Committee has such a situation that we had more candidates at the session of the Justice Committee itself and at the pre-prepared session, the decision was made to invite all 5 candidates to the Justice Committee, so that Boris Vukovic, Zlata Djurdjevic, Lana Peto Kujundzic, Snjezana Rizvana and Šima Savic were invited. Mr. Boris Vukovic gave up before the session itself, so he didn't attend the debate. The other candidates joined the debate and the debate was held and after the debate was concluded, it joined the vote. Prof. Zlata Djurdjevic received 3 votes in favour, 6 votes against Dr. Lana Peto Kujundzic 1 vote for, 2 votes abstentioned and 6 votes against, mag. Snježana Rizvana 1 vote for, 2 votes abstentioned and 6 votes against and others. Shime Savic 1 vote in favour, 2 votes abstentions and 6 votes against, which we found that the Justice Committee did not give a positive opinion on any candidate who joined the committee's session. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u52997	I thank my colleague, Jaksic, and we open the debate, the first is the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, two MPs, counterpart Zekanovic and Sacic, are the first in line for a respected colleague, Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u52998	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The demarcation line between the authorities and the opposition, between the position and the opposition, is the budget or rebalancing. We clearly saw who was the new member of the rulings a few days ago. Croatian sovereigns, unlike all other clubs and individuals, last time it came to Zlata Djurdjevic's trail of the policy they constantly represent, were against Zlata Djurdjevic. That will be done Friday or tomorrow at the vote on Zlata Djurdjevic. I am pleased that many clubs that were then indecisive, could not find a policy to deal with, changed their attitude, their opinion, and will also support this decision together with Croatian sovereigns, not because we are part of the ruling coalition, but because we believe that Zlata Djurdjevic cannot come to the post. We forgot Tomislav Karamarka, who formed a patriotic coalition and who was the political goal of overthrowing Zoran Milanovic because Zoran Milanovic at the time shot, appointed ministers and we were against it, and we thought he should be removed from that place, just as we are now in position because the current Prime Minister is doing the same thing. When the politician Zoran Milanovic took office as president of the republic, he also has the possibility of staffing. This is one example of his staff policy. Just as his human policy did not suit me at the time he was Prime Minister, it does not suit me, neither to us sovereigns nor to his staff policy when he is in the position of the president of the state. So, precisely because she is an exponent of a clear policy, a clear world-wide mirror of the neoliberal, world-famous Zoran Milanovic, she is not acceptable to Croatian sovereigns, she was neither at the last vote nor she will be today because I will never forget what motivated me to enter politics, which was the fight against the green-left, against Zoran Milanovic and similar to him. And with all my strength, I will fight to keep people like this, like this when it doesn't come to extremely important functions in our country. There's also a Supreme Court in America, and Donald Trump made fantastic human policy there. Today, out of the nine judges of the US Supreme Court, 6 are conservatives, 3 are liberals. The last appointed was Amy Coney Barrett, and he, with the choice of the judge and the other judges, has very much strengthened the conservative Republican position in America for a long, long time. The same will happen in Croatia if this person is elected to this place, to this function. Here I have to stress a few more extremely important facts, which is that Zlata Djurdjevic, who is now known as a anti-corruption fighter, has skipped the procedure herself and wanted to come to that place without a competition. Is that what we stand for? I think that's exactly the opposite. For those who do not know the Supreme Court, there are 35 judges of all departments, and at the session where the candidates were discussed, there were 33 judges of which Zlata Djurdjevic received only one vote. And now I'm interested in whether these 33 judges who have been delegated by the moss at the time of the SDP and HDZ are all corrupt, naughty or something wrong with the candidate that she only got one vote. I must criticise my HDZ colleagues here, for those who do not know Zlata Djurdjevic was proposed in January this year as a spare candidate for the European Court of Human Rights Judge where the term of office takes 9 years and pays EUR 18,000. I'm a little unclear how the rulings at one point are responding, and in another moment she's not responding. And finally Zlata Djurdjevic forgets, which in her programme stated that there is no mechanism, a control mechanism that controls the work of judges, and forgets that there is DSV, and she was a member of the DSV, so obviously she doesn't even know the measure. I will conclude before I give my word to my colleague Sacic, Zlata Djurdjevic is an exponent of one policy, one of the neoliberal or green-left policies, the politics of Zoran Milanovic, Peđa Grbin, Mrs Bencic, Tomasevic and the like. Therefore, the Croatian Sovereigns were acceptable to us, nor would they be acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u52999	Thank you, please stop time, fellow Sacic you will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53000	So, today we are finally in the debate about this very important function in our country of Croatia, but who has remained in the shadow of this failed first candidacy and which has deeply traumatised us where even the motionary president of the Republic of Croatia has severely offended all of us who have dared to put our political stance legitimately on any subject, and so on any candidate whom we must express ourselves in a democratic way in the assembly. He allowed himself therefore one thing, even the Constitutional Court confirmed it, one self-government and thus very strongly compromised it and otherwise quite, quite certainly one exceptional expert of our colleague Professor Djurdjevic, really put it in his arms and thus infected it with his legal violent actually style and brought us all together in a position to sort of take this negative view of the procedure of the president of the Republic of Croatia in a way that we also reflect on his candidate. But in this case, we've been through all this, we've been through all these insults, we've been left open today to say our every opinion, but also to defend our views, to listen to what the DSV suggested, what this committee, we've had a chance for the judiciary, which I am, the general session of the Supreme Court, but ultimately, and what we personally know and what we can say in favour of individual candidates. My personal opinion that we have had from the proposed candidates extremely high-quality candidates. By my personal court certainly not diminishing the value, importance and exceptional contribution to Ms. Djurdjevic's legal science, my personal position is that my Croatian counterpart, Croatian defender, is Dr. Sime Savic, a lawyer behind whom many associations in the Republic of Croatia have confirmed himself, eventually proposed him to the RH Bar, which has been confirmed so far in the 15,000 litigation, which has brought up in fact generations of young trainee lawyers, who have kept morality, honor, honesty in this profession, which is daily in the case, who knows every corner of this legal practice and who is ultimately not a criminal legal criminal, but a civilist, and the Supreme Court in principle 95% of the litigation of civil rights cases, leads from the domain of various forms and trade, all of which are only 5% of the criminal rights that will continue to be relocated from the position of criminal law by setting up the High Criminal Court in other areas, from these positions, it is absolutely acceptable, natural and certainly more acceptable to us as a candidate with such professional references, but the President of the State has its powers. It's sad and unacceptable that he didn't talk, even if it's private, half-private with all these candidates, they deserve, no one came up from the road and street position worse than with their references, their lives, their expertise, our honor, we believe that the procedure has been harshly violated. We Croatian sovereigns are thinking, we are consulting to change in the future the process of the legal procedure of the proposal because this way leads to paralysis our system, and it is not good for the Croatian people or for the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53001	Thank you. We are now going to a second debate, the House Movement Representatives Club, will speak to a respected colleague, Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53002	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We've heard a lot here so far on the way to this debate today, leading officials in the country have commented on, in every way this topic. We heard from one side that the HDZ judiciary, that this party is actually solely responsible for the situation. On the other hand, we had a reaction from the prime minister who called for judicial independence, in a way he washed his hands of everything. It's in my opinion an expression of impotence, that there's nothing he can do, that's a special branch of government and his hands are tied and how it is, that's right. There's been a trend of the polemics of the two, maybe from that, journalists have benefited from certain titles and contributions on television, but our citizens certainly haven't benefited from it, and now we're here to die. It is a good thing this debate is still being held, but it is a shame that the President of the Republic did not come here personally to say something in favour of counterpart Djurdjevic. He has repeatedly said that he would like to see individual representatives face-to-face, to hear why they are against her candidacy, unfortunately I will not have a chance here today to tell him this personally. Maybe someone will pass it on to him. We often hear in Croatia that institutions should do their jobs, it may be the most expedient flossule that citizens have listened to for over 20 years. However, the situation is getting worse, we know that trust in the judiciary is on very low branches, it is not an accident. I will try to explain why I think it is so and I think this debate, however, is a reason to open a discussion about, say, the Croatian post.../incomprehensible/... post-communist transition. I don't think we've been able to make it. We haven't made it yet. What he would say about the proposed candidate, which the Homeland Movement certainly disagrees with, is that the problems with us in the judiciary have arisen in the 1990s. So, the causes of many problems, the main causes go back far before the '90s. So we must simply underline and keep repeating that we have a difficult legacy from communism, unlike other post-Communist countries, Croatia did not face the bitter truth of that heritage and unfortunately we have what we have, but it imposes on the narrative that the problems arise in the 1990s. So when it comes to economics, it's said to be around, it's implicit that everything was fine until the '90s, and then there were privatisation problems and so forth. So in the judiciary, counterpart Djurdjevic argues that problems arise in the 1990s. In one article, I studied her scientific work, in an article published in '96. Mr. She lists the injustices committed in totalitarian systems. It states some countries that the issue has been resolved, for example, compensation for victims of communist persecution, terror and the like. However, she did not offer a solution for Croatia. The question arises why Croatia did not have a similar measure to defile the many innocent victims of that time. But what she didn't write, which is a very important topic, what about the perpetrators? So she referred to the victims and admitted that they were very many throughout that part of Europe, but what about those who were law enforcement? Many countries, as we know, have spent a lustration, have today, I would say by many indicators, a greater success than we are, we are no longer for any reason not to go into this topic now, but what I want to say is that when this article was published, the lustration was a very real option in Croatia in '96. Mr. However, I think it's a failure. We also saw, yesterday I received a letter from Mr. Mustac from Clay, in a way representing her candidacy, it's kind of a recommendation and it's symptomatic, so in my opinion Mr. Mustac is one, it's a symptom of both the whole injustice and everything that's happened to innocent people all the time and now he's actually sending a letter to the MPs in favor of her candidacy, I think it's a clear failure and I'd say very cynically. As far as the legacy of communism is concerned, just a few words. So we know how the Marxists saw the law, as an instrument of political power, as an instrument of political power. So, not as a reflection of lasting moral truths, but as something to manipulate, or adapt to the interests of those in power. And unfortunately for decades it's created a culture in our country, we can't get away from it. We have one legal culture that is what it is, and I think the big question is actually how to start reform in the judiciary when the legacy is so difficult. Plato explained a long time ago, I'm going to quote him because he actually explained something that has a lasting value to righteousness, justice is actually one moral virtue that arises and resides in every man. It's not an abstract thing to impose on the outside. In other words, our institutions will be as righteous as the people in them are just, as the people in them are righteous. We've recently seen two judges arrested in Osijek. So, what does independence of the judiciary mean? Not that, this independence applies not only to freedom from the pressure of other branches of government, from the executive and legislative authorities, but judges must be free from parties in procedures, and we see what is happening in Croatia. So, first of all, judges need to earn our trust that they would really have this status of independent arbitration and those who determine and decide our fates, but with us, we are far from it. I will also state the recent case of the European Court of Human Rights which has actually ruled that owners in Croatia must be compensated, those who cannot enjoy ownership and who have protected tenants in their apartments. It's an inherited problem from before. So, the Croatian judiciary failed to solve the problem, but we know when such problems occurred, before the 1990s, and the government will now have to find a way to pay off these huge money. So, we can't get away from the past, she's just present whether she wants it or not. Dear MPs and MPs, I'd still like to say something about the work of the DSV. So, I think the experience shows that there are no strong enough mechanisms to control what happens in the judiciary. It's not good for judges to choose themselves. I don't think it's good that the vote is secret, you should know how to vote for individual judges, for their promotion and so on. Therefore, it should all be put on the agenda because things just don't work out the way they are today. Here I studied the programme of my colleague Đurdjevic, I studied what I could, which was available in her work so far, she proved to be a good teacher, an excellent theorist for some questions, but she has no day's experience in the work of the judiciary. However, we have many objections in her mind, so the Homeland Movement will have to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53003	We are now going to the third debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, will speak to a respected colleague named Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53004	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the debate so far, we at least talked about the situation in the judiciary and the candidate for Supreme Court President. We talked about Marxism, we talked about the past, but we didn't talk about what I hope we want to achieve in the Croatian judiciary. And what is the situation in the Croatian judiciary may best say yesterday's report on Croatia's competitiveness for 2021. in the Yearbook of World Competitiveness for 2021. And what is the main challenge of increasing Croatian competitiveness in this yearbook? First of all, the reform of the judiciary of colleagues and colleagues, the reform of the judiciary. And from this government, and this government now has a continuity of 5 years, at 5. We haven't seen anything that would go in the direction of improving the situation in the judiciary. We have now heard one criticism at the expense of Mrs. Devereaux. Djurdjevic said she was not part of a judicial judicial elite in the Republic of Croatia. Well, maybe that's a good thing, perhaps the Croatian judiciary, perhaps the Croatian judges in the first place among the equals, and who still dictates the pace, need someone who is not part of that circle, who will be able to think in a different way, who for years had opportunities to look outside at all the problems of the Croatian judiciary and today will have the will to figure out these problems. No, respected colleagues and colleagues, the election of the president or president of the Supreme Court cannot in itself change the situation in the Croatian judiciary and that is the fact. No, one person can't, but he can start to change it, he can show that we're as a society, not as a state, we as a society, ready to make the steps needed to improve the situation in the judiciary. After that, of course, government activity should follow, for example, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration to improve the situation in the judiciary. That part is missing for now, so let's concentrate on what's ahead of us today and where we can take a step. And dear colleagues and colleagues, who is Zlata Djurdjevic? Zlata Đurđević is a professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb, a professor from the field of procedural science, criminal procedural law. It's about a person who's professional and I don't think anyone can even question that professionalism. Furthermore, it is a person who is undoubtedly professional. It's about a person who's capable. All those characteristics that someone we propose to lead the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia should have. Well, then there's a problem. We come to what our respected colleagues and colleagues differ about, which is one of the characteristics of Zlata Djurdjevic. She's on her own. She's her own and she doesn't accept that there was a Pedja, there was Zoran, there was an Andrej solo mind, and they're affecting how she's going to decide. Now, I want that person at the head of the Supreme Court, but there are you who don't want it. And that's the main reason the ruling majority today won't support Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic, surprise me. Come on, surprise me. Show that you are ready to think outside the box, show that you are ready to do something good for the Republic and surprise me. If I'm wrong, I'll be extremely pleased. If you are ready today to support a person who can begin to step up for the Croatian judiciary, I will be happy because I was wrong, but I'm afraid it won't happen. Why does this matter now? When you want to do something, when you want to make a step, then you're gonna make a big effort to make it, and everything that's negative, you're gonna try to get over it. But when you don't want something, then you need hair in your egg. The main argument why not Zlati Djurdjevic's ruling majority found in her pious violation of the procedure, violation of the Constitution and the law because that's what the Constitutional Court said. But it's interesting, we just pull the parallel, when the Constitutional Court has abolished the article. 293a of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which was proposed by colleagues Jandroković and Reiner, I did not see the ruling majority that because of the violation of the Constitution, she requested the procedure, proposed and spent the shift of the president and vice president of the Croatian Parliament. As far as I can tell, the president of HS is right behind me. The Constitutional Court has abolished, HS has changed the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, just over two months ago, the Constitutional Court abolished the Waste Management Regulation. It was brought by the Croatian government, proposed by Tomislav Coric. This is why Croatia is currently suffering direct damage, which is because waste cannot be adequately handled, which is because we are being threatened by millions of fines. Has Tomislav Coric been removed? I didn't notice. The ruling majority stands by him in spite of this. Let's take a step further, the Constitutional Court has abolished the decision on working time taken by the Staff. Is that why Davor Bozinovic stopped being a minister or at least the head of the Staff? No, not at all. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, the defiance of the Constitution and the law is not the reason why the ruling majority do not want to support Zlata Djurdjevic because if that were the reason neither would Jandrokovic be the president of HS nor would Coric and Bozinovic be ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not the reason, it is an excuse, it is an alibi, it is an apology, it is a glimmer in the eyes, it is an attempt to hide the real reason why you do not want to support Zlata Djurdjevic, and in order to know what the real reason is, compare only the procedure that was related to her choice, with the choice of Zlata Djurdjevic and with this debate. The Justice Committee listened to all candidates, gave its opinion, every sentence, every word was subject to, not only opportunities, colleagues and colleagues from HS to ask MPs, but to the entire Croatian public to hear the answers to those questions. When, for example, the primary state attorney was elected, Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, before running, took place a meeting in the government, and then her knowledge was checked by one body that was not provided for in either the Constitution or the law, one ad hoc body formed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of various ministers, including the Minister of Interior, who is headed by a police system which should nevertheless be supervised by the State's attorney's hearing and the candidate for another high judicial duty was held behind closed doors. Behind closed doors, without the public, without any of us knowing what the ministers then asked the future chief state attorney and what she had answered them, that's the difference, colleagues and colleagues. Zlata Djurdjevic will not be elected again, correct me if I am wrong and I will be happy that I made a mistake, but Zlata Djurdjevic will not be elected because she does not answer to the ruling ones and does not respond to the ruling ones because she does not want to be their exhibit. And because by ruling and calling them the real name, HDZ, they don't want the situation in the Croatian judiciary to improve, even if that's why in the 2022 World Competitiveness Report and those three countries of 64 who are behind Croatia now coming ahead of us because we call them the real name, and the real name is HDZ, at this point it doesn't care or anything more about Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53005	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. Since you directly called me for a violation of the constitution, I would only remind you that the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure and Art. 293a. delivered by HS, not by the President and Vice President HS. So your argument is very thin if you take this as an example that you should or should not have chosen Mrs. Djurdjevic. And please don't deceive the public, I'm only saying this for that reason so no one would think that I or Vice President Reiner broke the constitution. So it's amazing that you used such an argument. Let's move on now, it's time for our esteemed colleague, Nikola Grmoy, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53006	Good afternoon, everyone. So, I don't like it when such complex topics are taken up by some firm stances, especially from people who, I don't think, haven't even read the candidate's programme, a good part of them didn't even take part in this session of the Justice Committee where there was a hearing of candidate Zlata Djurdjevic and it's clear that Zlata Djurdjevic is a HDZ candidate for good, after all, she was their candidate, so for certain, for certain functions. What I think is controversial here, and I am glad that the president of the SDP has tempered the public's views and expectations a little bit. So, some kind of public fama was created that the election of Zlata Djurdjevic, in fact, would lead to a failure of corruption and in the Croatian judiciary, that this would be a victory over these corrupt structures in the Croatian judiciary, so that it would end up dealing with corrupt judges, and that does not correspond to the truth. So, the candidate herself, I was at the hearing, I'm the only member of the Justice Committee who gave all the candidates a positive opinion because I think it's good for the procedure, that it should be discussed. What I find not good is that the president proposes an HS candidate without speaking to anyone. So we here should give support means someone the president chose before the public call that took place. We knew it was his candidate and then we should not know here the Homeland Movement should support Zlata Djurdjevic after being brutally offended by the president's position. So no one as HS, as representatives of clubs by the president, has consulted this one, so let's talk, let's see who really is the best candidate for that function. The other thing is, we will ultimately, here in HS, need to vote for someone for whom HDZ and SDP will agree, so it will eventually be. So, when HDZ and Milanovic agree on candidates, it will be a candidate who will get most of them, and the rest of us will need to support it or not support it. I tell you here immediately when HDZ and the SDP agree on candidates I certainly will not support it the same way as in 2017 when we were part of the ruling majority, when HDZ and SDP agreed on this shameful composition of the constitutional court we were against. We were against the Mlakar who faked himself in Austria. Zoran Milanovic raised his hand for Mlakar, and now he's not doing well, he's not doing well with the constitutional court, and now they're not sure how you voted them all together in this constitutional court assembly together. And responsibility, I agree, is the biggest responsibility on HDZ for the state of justice, but cannot escape SDP from responsibility. We can't escape either those of us who have been or who don't know how many ministers, the Minister of Justice, as long as those turbulences and she's the government she was, so neither can we. So, those stories are us or them, so we're going to reform the judiciary now, we don't have any responsibilities, they're stories for little kids, you sell them to someone else, you can't sell them to me. Do you know when changes will take place in the Croatian judiciary? Something my colleague Bartulica said about it, when we change our head, when we change our mentality, means in which everything is solved through connection, from health services to judgments. Then we will change the situation in the Croatian judiciary, not by selecting one person in the Supreme Court where everyone showed when they voted against it. He told his colleague, Zekanovic, that he said something about her. No, that says it's a caste that doesn't want someone from the academic community now, so it's coming to the Supreme Court. It's just talking about it, it doesn't say anything about a candidate. So, people, let's be objective, let's get away from some flat-rate, let's try to look at things. Zlata Djurdjevic said in her programme some good things, that only moving justice policy will not solve problems in the Croatian judiciary. So we now in the DSV which is the source of corruption, I repeat that my thesis is the source of corruption, we have two politicians and we have representatives of the academic community. So politics has a minor, minor impact and it shows that the situation in the judiciary is bad not only because of the influence of politics, although politics has influence but is bad because of what I'm talking about, what I'm talking about. It wasn't a politician who bribed judges, it was a football manager who bribed judges. Moving justice policies will not prevent new Mamics, but rather change of mentality and an effective and independent institution that will treat anyone who wrongs about the law and any judge who associates with the convicts in the way in which it is necessary. How many cases were there that the judges themselves punished those who acted that way. Who answered? No one. There are no responsibilities in Croatia, there are problems. I'll just take a quick word on the public hearing. Therefore, the candidate has shown to the committee a very high level of knowledge about the functioning of the judiciary in Croatia but in parallel legal systems, however, its public explanations about the situation on the judiciary and the situation in our Supreme Court have been somewhat inconsistencies with the expectations of the candidate from the post she has been running for. It thus speaks on the one hand about the strong and strong position of the President of the Supreme Court and the tools at his disposal, while on the other hand it quite rightly concludes that the Supreme Court as such, the law took away the possibility of fulfilling some of its tasks such as unifying judicial practice. There means Zlata Djurdjevic notes well that the number of cases that come to the Supreme Court is too small for the Supreme Court to be able to fulfil its role in unifying court practice at all. In such circumstances as the candidate is obviously aware, she must be aware that her administration structure as she calls it, will not be enough to meet the expectations that exist in the public and which she created herself, they were the most created by the President of the Republic who turned this election story of the Supreme Court into a story of a full account of corruption, so when we choose Zlata Djurdjevic, corruption in Croatia will disappear. That is not true, it is a deception and it should be clearly told to Croatian citizens here. So, I think it is necessary, this public call, we all know, so when the ruling majority is against, some clubs have already made it clear that they are against, that Zlata Djurdjevic will not be elected. It is necessary to call a new public call, it is necessary that the president enters consultations with the opposition clubs after the candidates arrive for that public call in order to finally come to the election of the President of the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court, which is either the only time or means and this does not match what should be agreed with the Prime Minister, so if the Prime Minister controls you in such a way that you and the Croatian Parliament and the majority cannot vote without a moment, then it means there is nothing left to the President but to agree with the Prime Minister and to ensure the majority for this joint proposal, it will be a joint proposal. I can already say that for this joint proposal without anyone talking to the Mosta Club asking us about our views on candidates, that's not how I intend to participate in this debate. And another thing that was coming down on Zlati Djurdjevic. It's a matter of handing over Perkovic. So, the fact is that Zlata Djurdjevic was against lex Perkovic. Not as some claim it was for lex Perkovic, but she gave her opinion on it, on the extradition itself, meant doing comparative practice of European countries and what was disputed to me, the same opinion was given by Derencinovic, who, for the purposes of the DORH, gave the same position as Zlata Djurdjevic, the only thing that was disputed to me, so in the whole story, was that Zlata Djurdjevic did not publicly declare it, so it was a matter of transparency, publicly declared that the opinion she gave, which by no law was disputed, so she did not declare that this opinion was commissioned by Nobil and that she was actually done and may have been paid, means by the defense of Perkovic. That's the only thing that's disputed. That intransparency, in all of that. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53007	Thank you. We are going to the fifth debate, the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, two colleagues will speak, respected colleague Mrak-Taritaš and respected colleague Oreskovic. First up, comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53008	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it's important at first to say one thing. This is not a question of some verbal conflict between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister who entertains or pisses the public, as who and how when, this is a fundamental issue of the functioning of institutions and whether we are even a state that can be called state. Because if the Constitution, laws, parliament, courts and all other institutions fall to their knees in front of individual personal or party interests, then we all have a serious problem together. And I'd say this isn't even a debate about the Professor himself. Zlati Djurdjevic, a debate we have been having for months and a debate on whether we are ready for a step forward. In this case, in the judiciary and with regret, the only conclusion that can be drawn from all this which has been said and done so far is that we are not ready for a step forward. I'd say this isn't just a discussion about Professor. Djurdjevic. Unfortunately, in the big part, it really is, but it's a huge damage and an indicator of the state of things. I really don't think that one man can make a revolution and overnight magical wand erase all problems, especially in an institution like the Supreme Court, not to mention the judiciary as a whole at all, but one person can send an important message and give an even more important tone and direction to what's going on. One of the things that we've determined all these months, and it seems to me that no one puts any doubt on that fact, which is that it's Professor. Zlata Djurdjevic is a perfectly qualified candidate. That's what prof. Zlata Djurdjevic meets the formal criteria is understandable in itself. It is about a model, professional, scientific and public career in a country such as Croatia where real people are constantly missing for the right places. That should be nice to everyone. Her résumé is simply brilliant, but perhaps it's not because it wouldn't be a problem to choose her. Professor Djurdjevic has a serious flaw in his résumé, in several places even pointing out that it is a virtue that will help her with the election. It is independent of politics and formal and content in its work that independence has shown. It's not like many of the top independent candidates that HDZ here proposes for various functions and various bodies that choose the parliament could hide pieces of their lives to hide political ties. So when we get a list of some allegedly independent candidates that we're proposing here in the assembly, I do one very simple thing, Google knows everything. I Google the name and last name and add the HDZ and then I regularly discover that we are dealing with people who are local HDZ officials, present or former, or were representatives of that party in some council somewhere or are donor spouses or lecturers at their youth academys, etc., and so on, that Google knows a lot of interesting things. - Mrs. Crescent. Zlata Djurdjevic doesn't have that kind of reference, and therefore, not all of us lying together, HDZ doesn't want her. It's not someone you can control, it's not someone you can blackmail. Her independence of our prime minister scares away, and there's no way she'll pass. Unfortunately, there is nothing unusual about Croatia, but now the public has been given the opportunity to see it clearly and unequivocally. We'll get a clean professional through the mud without a problem, so some party appliances that aren't even up to their knees will give a lecture on how she broke the constitution and the laws. And she only broke one thing, didn't bow deep enough to Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53009	Thank you, too. Time please stop. Now will be continued by colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53010	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I am really embarrassed by the very aggressive tone that has been under discussion for months not only today but rather the choice of a member of the judicial authority. And that kind of creates an impression in the public, especially among those who know the profession well, that our competences are also questionable for doing the jobs for which we are paid and for which we are elected by citizens. And this debate, in which there are very few arguments, and quite a lot of incorrect claims, will demote all quality people who hold to their dignity to report any public invitation or public competition in the future. I wonder if we have forgotten or may never have been aware that HS is the body most responsible for creating the conditions in which the judicial authority should or may carry out its tasks in accordance with what all our citizens expect under the constitution and law of the Republic of Croatia. HS is the one who designs the design of individual institutions, especially those that should do internal control within the same judicial authority, and this pattern is insufficient, insufficient and for decades bad. HS is the one who makes the laws by which judges are tried, so many among them who are honest, conscious and responsible are very often making judgments and decisions that citizens are not satisfied with, but they are not the judges, it is our fault. And the only thing I can agree with today is that one person, neither the President nor the President of the Supreme Court, can and will not reform the Croatian judiciary. That's our job. However, in order to be able to do so, we should first clearly define, without political market and division, which are key problems within the judiciary itself. And it might be useful, it might have been opportunised if we had devoted a whole week or a month of debates on the situation in the Croatian judiciary, putting on the agenda instead of what kind of trinkets report, for example, the main state attorney for the past year, but also the report by the President of the Supreme Court. It would be good if we had organized thematic discussions on which to repeat the material from the GRECO reports. So GRECO is an international organisation of the Council of Europe, there are 50 Member States, all countries there have sent their most prominent people from the justice system, whether they are judges with the highest court cases or general state attorneys or their deputies. So, the most professional auditorium has made its recommendations through 5 cycles of evaluation of the state of justice and the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. And today we're actually talking about something that comes from the fourth evaluation circle and the recommendations that were then made. And one of them was then to change the way the Supreme Court President was elected because the procedure previously defined through the constitutional powers of the president of the state to propose a candidate then elected by the parliament proved in practice too politicised. How politicized and bad we have a chance to see it now. And we should remind ourselves that we have conducted the research paid by the World Bank on the reasons and the causes of non-trust of Croatian citizens in our judiciary and based on this research we have made a small but still insufficient step in the Law on Courts which provided for a public call to be called, that candidates apply their lifes and work plan to give the President of the State the opportunity to, on the basis of certain criteria and values, convince the public that the candidate he proposes is not their political choice. I appreciate Zlata Djurdjevic as an academic expert, however, I do not agree to this artificially created division and the conflict he caused and created by Zoran Milanovic from which the discourse of this entire debate stems, which is that either we are for Zlata Djurdjevic as an independent candidate or we are for a corrupt HDZ judiciary. If indeed the entire Croatian judiciary is corrupt and HDZ is corrupt, then Zlata Djurdjevic will not save it and on the other hand, where do we get the right to treat all other candidates in advance as someone who would be an exhibit of HDZ or any other policy? We are not aware of the way in which we have actually offended the quality judges who have responded to the competition but all others who will have to make the call again. I will speak of the constitutionality of this new public call in individual speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53011	Thank you. The sixth debate, IDS Representatives' Club, will be held by respected counterpart Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53012	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is this saga on the election of the President or President of the Supreme Court for almost 150 days, and as we can hear so far in this debate, it will not end tomorrow. And the problem is the judiciary as a whole, the problem is the laws that are lumpy, which are full of holes. And because of these laws, we end up in this situation today. And that is because some lawyers believe that the President of the Republic, in this case Mr Milanovic, is not related to the DSV procedure, some say he is. It is not clearly defined that the candidate must be proposed from the part that appeared in the competition, some say he must. And the constitutional provision makes it clear that the President of the Supreme Court is elected on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia, in this case by Mr Milanovic. And it's actually a representation of this country, a representation of the situation in the judiciary, a representation of a law that's full of contradictions, and every law interprets how it wants it, or how you suit it at a certain point. And that's not good for this country that's in crisis, though, economic and what we need is economic stability, so last week we voted out some rebalancing advocates where the deficit has increased by 6 billion kuna by the end of the year is probably going to be over 17 million kuna, so let the citizens figure out if we have economic stability. The political stability that is thin, but come on, there is also unfortunately a judgment that will be in crisis tomorrow because we should vote on the President or the President of the Supreme Court, as we hear tomorrow, and that will not be the case, and that is the head of the judicial authority responsible for the functioning of the judiciary. And that's why we are here today in this almost unexplainable situation because everyone interprets the laws and the constitution as they wish. So we'll try to be responsible in IDS, we'll support Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic, president of the Supreme Court, in hopes and somewhat naively, that tomorrow all parliamentary deputies will be responsible and that we will not be brought to the door of the judicial crisis in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53013	The seventh debate, a Green-left bloc representative club whose name Sandra Bencic, a respected colleague, will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53014	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, the election of the president or president of the Supreme Court of the Republic, elected by the President of the Republic of Parliament, is here for me by a process which should preferably guarantee the democratic legitimacy of a person headed by a judicial authority. It's a very public question, until the administration of this candidate, Professor. Zlata Djurdjevic, who stressed and repeatedly stressed the importance of the democratic legitimacy of the judicial authority. Why? Therefore, it is important to repeat that the judicial authority is one of three branches of government which is independent of the other two but is in a mutual relationship and this relationship should be characterized by the ratio of brakes and balances. So, each other's controls and prevention of encroachment of one power to another. The independence of the judiciary means two things: internal independence, which means that every judge in the individual procedure is free to apply the law and to determine the facts in accordance with the law and the Constitution, not as told by the President of the Court, for example, or as someone at some session of the court of another. The internal component is extremely important and I was very glad that it was just the candidate for the Supreme Court President who repeatedly emphasized it. Second, external independence. External independence shall ensure the inability at all to influence the executive authority and the policy on judicial decisions in individual cases. And what do we have today out of independence? We have that there is no public understanding in the work of the judicial authority that independence does not mean independence from the law, that it does not mean independence from every form of public criticism, that it does not mean liability to the public and to the citizens, that independence means that judges judge by the Constitution and the law, and not by someone's orders and expectations. But it doesn't mean independence from public criticism. What, therefore, today we have a closed system in which not all of us, I repeat, not all judges, but part of the judges, are seeking even more protection from public criticism, which, in the case of unfavourable newspaper articles, sues journalists, and while each other is being charged with huge damages, which eventually fall in the European Court of Human Rights, we have even votes, and among other things, from the current president of the Supreme Court who think, be careful now, that the views of citizens on the judiciary and on the perception of corruption in the judiciary are harmful trials and that they de facto represent attacks on the independence of the judiciary. President VSRH current. At the same time, we have a President of the Constitutional Court who is openly socializing, painting and publishing on Facebook photos with friends from HDZ and that, no less than the president of the Assembly Club of HDZ, Mr. Bačić, and that's normal for everyone, because they're friends, so people have to hang out, right? That's normal. We have situations where the most important judicial decisions are therefore made at the meetings of the VSRH and taken in the Constitutional Court, that they are not public. And they are not public not because of the crown, but because there is an internal resistance at the top of the judiciary and in the Constitutional Court that the argument put out is not exposed to the public, and then to public criticism. And all together, it led to this low level of trust in the judiciary together, of course, with the corruption cases we've had. But what did we learn through Golden Djurdjevic's candidacy? I want to stress that because I don't want everything that she's been through, which she's said and argued falls into the water tomorrow when, of course, you, out of the short-term political interests, reject her candidacy. We have learned that in Croatian society there are people who really live excellence in the field they deal with, people who have already received a lot of recognition for their work, so this should not mean much to them, persons who show an exceptional level of integrity and independence and who are willing to expose themselves to the limits in order to show that the judiciary could be and what kind of justice should be. We also learned that policy selection does not have to be a politically motivated choice, it clearly told us that it does not have to be a choice based on political similarity. However, she pointed out, many countries choose judges in parliament or the presidents of courts, as we choose the president of the court in parliament, but not on the basis of political similarities, but on the basis of objective criteria of expertise, integrity and public reputation of that person because they are capable of it. And that's the only thing Zlata Djurdjevic was saying, she wasn't saying that more policies were needed in the election, but that the choice of VSRH president was the only link of democratic legitimacy in the choice of judges and that if this person was chosen by objective criteria, then the fact that we choose the representatives body is irrelevant, if we are able to choose in this way. But paradoxically, the one who gave us a huge loan that we're capable of actually being the victim of that belief, because, well, we're not. So the arguments that you HDZ and their pendants, from the Sovereignist to the Homeland Movement that will vote against the candidate together, show how much we didn't actually deserve that loan. For example. counterpart Zekanovic said she was not conservative enough, as if it were important in any way, so she presents examples of the US Supreme Court without understanding at all the differences between the role of the Supreme Court in the United States and the Republic of Croatia, the difference between the Anglo-Saxon system and the continental system, means she knows nothing about it, compared incomparably because she watched 5 American films. Literally so, it was the level of debate it was, I saw three American films about the Supreme Court. The HDZ is making arguments that are coming down to the same, so you're talking about the problem because it has agreed to be president's candidate, so it's not good enough, regardless of what the president suggests to the Constitution, it's not good because it has agreed to be president's candidate. The bridge tells us that it is logical that the Homeland Movement will not support the candidate of the president of the Republic of Croatia when the president rudely insulted them. So that's an argument. With such arguments, we are here defending someone's position to support or not to support it. So all these arguments talk about that one large part of this assembly does not understand its responsibility in selecting the leaders of the judiciary, does not understand the criteria and is not capable of having one single procedure, so one single part, removed from the ring of the short-term day policy, agreeing that we will not and will not have to get political points, does not matter in that single procedure, and that only once in the term we do the right thing, we choose, not on the basis of some of our preconceptions, not on the basis of the next poll of the popularity of politicians, but on the basis of public interest and citizens' interest to move towards strengthening trust in the judiciary and to improve the work of the judiciary. So, only once should we get out of the shoes of short-term political points and the short-term struggles of Pantovic and Mark's square. Many times in these discussions it has been pointed out that it will not be the VSRH president who will not be a great reformer of the judiciary, he can not do it himself, it is true, it is not an all-powerful function, but the choice of such a person who has shown the incredible breadth of knowledge, the firmness of character in relation to all political options, is an exceptional signal to everyone in the judicial authority who could trigger this avalanche of the necessary changes, and even attitudes and relationships to their own responsibilities within the judiciary. By doing so, you can strengthen your confidence in the justice system. So we have a great opportunity to change, and precisely because we have it, which we have seen, which is clear, is what HDZ crushed it at the very beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53015	Thank you, too. Before I give my injuries to the Rules of Procedure, just a little fellow Sacic, I don't usually intervene, but I didn't understand the reason why you called the two representatives' clubs the HDZ's "brands" because they showed their political stance. I don't think it's correct because then someone can tell you that you're someone's locket because you've expressed your political position. So here's what it is, I won't give you a warning, but I'd like to pray that we avoid that kind of thing after all. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53016	Dear President, that's exactly right. I'm reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, ma'am. Sandra Bencic, indeed unworthy, incorrect, non-legislative and extremely trendy in front of the Croatian public, has declared an honorable club of elected people in HS, Croatian sovereigns, and so I assume the Homeland Movement, to be "the princes of the HDZ". Shame on you can be, from where you're entitled, we never allow it. Your political views can be expressed, but if you insult us uncontrollably, we will not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53017	Thank you, fellow Sacic. Thank you very much. I said what I thought was necessary. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Devereaux. Bencice hurt her ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure degrades and insults HDZ deputies. Nowhere, and never, ma'am. Bencic is not the HDZ Club, nor did any HDZ representative say he would not support Mrs. Bencic. Zlata Djurdjevic, because she is the candidate of the President of the Republic, no one can be the president of the Supreme Court if she is not the candidate of the President of the Republic, but we said we would not support Mrs. Djurdjevic because she was involved in an anti-zazonic procedure, and that is an important difference and you should know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53019	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bacic. Here's another call from my colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53020	238, the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Dear colleague Bencic obviously has a problem with Croatian sovereigns because we have clear policies and a clear world view. I know she's more, much more suited to some vague policy of some clubs, like. Here's a colleague of the Most who won't speak out on this subject whether you're black or white, but, ma'am. You've got to deal with it. We have been and we will be clear and in this case we have been and will be against Zlata Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53021	Thank you very much. And this was more of a replica than a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but since I haven't given anyone a warning, I won't give it to you either, so let's move on with the debates. Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, and I'm sorry, colleague Zekanovic, here's your break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53022	Dear President HS, you can do without the mask now, right? Dear President HS, I request a 10-minute recess to further consult on the agenda item in question. I must point out here that some people seem to mind that the parallel is drawn between the US elections for members of the Supreme Court and what is happening in Croatia. The parallel is very clear to all, as in the case of the Americas, about the exponents of one policy. In the case of America President Donald Trump managed to install and place his conservative judges. In the case of Croatia, President Milanovic seeks to set up a left or left candidate, which is Zlata Djurdjevic. My right and my position is politically clear to be against such candidates, and I will not hide that exactly my motivation in politics has been motivated by just what you do in politics. So, my political goal is that it is you from the coalition that we can!, from your parties and from the SDP you will never be in the position of government, whether it's you or wrong. However, what you deceive the Croatian public is a clear fact that we are here in opposition, so we are in opposition and against HDZ, and we have been before you and we will be forever and you cannot count on us. Perhaps you can count on some of the other clubs, but you will not be able to count on Croatian sovereigns, nor could you count on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53023	Okay. I'll call in an article. 293b, so we're not going to take a break even though I have to formally approve it. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and dear colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53024	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the item of the agenda where we will decide on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. If we see an ambience in which it or the atmosphere in which it happens, it's not really what I'm going to say promisingly. On the one hand, there are really debates about the situation in the judiciary that encourage all of what we saw in the Municipal Court in Osijek, all of what we saw in some other courts, and this really provides a very ugly and bad picture of our judiciary. On the other hand, for the first time, we have the procedure of electing the president or president of the Supreme Court on the basis of a public call, that is for the first time. We've always had that constitutional provision so far, the president of the Republic proposes, and the parliament elects the president. Many were dissatisfied with such a solution, they said it was precisely necessary to find some solution that would be more transparent, where the public would be aware of why someone was proposed to such an important and responsible function. And the only change we've made in the amendments to the Courts Act to achieve this really maximum transparency is we've introduced a public call. The introduction of a public call throughout the procedure means, in fact, the realisation of that constitutional principle which says that public functions must be available to all under equal conditions. So it's done and then there's this huge noise, that's the solution that he supported otherwise at the time when we brought the SDP, he didn't support the law, but that solution was certainly this one that was acceptable to them, which they were talking about. However, now that we have come at a time when we need to make a public call, when we need the basis of a public call to get a candidate or a candidate, it has really gotten out in public a lot of noise because it has been said that it reduces the president's powers, that it is the opposite of the Constitution, that it is absolutely unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court also conducted a procedure before the Constitutional Court, an assessment of the constitutionality of the law, and the Constitutional Court, as many, in fact, most of the vast majority of the constitutional experts said there was no unconstitution and so the Constitutional Court made a decision. However, we had, here, two public calls, in the first public call, we remember, there were three, I think, candidates, the president said he didn't support anyone and he proposed to this HS candidate who didn't answer a public call. Of course, there she's not in any area of illegality, we don't argue at all, I answer a public call needs someone who really has ambitions and who reflects on that position, thinks he has references and thinks he has a program. However, we also said on the Committee on the Constitution that such a proposal, proposed someone who did not participate in a public call, that it is illegal and that such a candidate cannot come before HS. What would that mean if it came? That would mean that these three people who came forward, who wrote the work programmes neatly, were not in the same position as someone who would come here, whom we would decide without knowing his program, which he, as he looks at the judiciary and all that. And there's a good solution, it means a public call, but it requires whoever comes to it to write and some kind of program that contains his vision, his goals, his measures that he can take under his authority. After that, when we've done this story in some way with our first public call, we have a second public call, which is said, okay, now we're going to respect the procedure, but already by the proposings, whoever answers, I'm going to suggest her. Well, that's not correct, you know, because here, what I'm saying as HDZ, even though I'm looking at it, everyone's saying, what, why the HDZ won't support, turns out that a HDZ representative doesn't even have to talk to me because everyone knows what HDZ thinks and what HDZ is proposing. What we want as HDZ, we really want at the head of the Supreme Court a person who is expert, who is competent, who has a reputation and who will actually propose measures and who will act according to both the Constitution and the law. And in order to come to this, we believe that it is necessary to encourage people in Croatia who meet these conditions to realize the constitutional principle that these functions are available to those who actually, who meet the conditions for it. We want a public call in which people will not be afraid because tomorrow someone will muddle them, because tomorrow someone will criticise them, but we want a public call where at least 10 relevant candidates will come to the meeting of the Justice Committee, with which they will, on which they will give an opinion to the General Session of the Supreme Court, will then come to the table of the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic will say, I propose this and it will come to the Assembly. Or they'll say I don't suggest anyone, repeat a public call, I don't think anyone deserves that place. However, we have constant recommendations, we have insults in relation to very important institutions on people, and that is one environment where we will find it difficult to encourage people, and that is why the HDZ Club insists and we send a message to all those who meet the conditions, who have a program, who have ambition to act as president of the VSRH, let them report, let them participate in this public call. Our reasons why we won't support this candidate we said. We believe that whoever reflects the position of the Supreme Court cannot ignore the law and accept the fact that it is proposed without him participating in a public call without him writing a work programme. That's for us, that's what we've been saying forever, that's what we're saying right now. It's a good thing there's a program, we talked about the program on the Justice Committee, we pointed out in public that this programme should have a very different view for us than this. It comes from some thinking whether judges have democratic legitimacy or not, whether the judge should be named like this or not. Whether politics should participate more in this choice or not. No, I don't. Politics should not participate to this end in the choice of VSRH President or in the choice of judges and presidents of other courts in the Republic of Croatia, because judges and the judiciary must be independent. The independence of the judiciary is one of the most important conditions for the rule of law because, if policy is to deal with the choice of judges and presidents of the courts, it really won't be good, it's one of the most important criteria that we are in the process of negotiations, and related to obtaining the status of EU members, one of the most important criteria that we have negotiated, and therefore we have changed the Constitution, so we have changed the laws, that the policy comes out of the judiciary, to reduce the impact on the least possible measure. Should DSV have more politicians? So the recommendation of the Venice Commission that the DSV must have the profession in greater numbers than what is the influence of politics and the academic community. We're sorry that the situation is like this, that we actually have a public call, under one of these pressures, so I say, very, very bad situations that were happening in the judiciary itself, but we're also sorry that one environment was actually created to take away someone's power, that all of this is unconstitutional. Can someone in 2021, when we're all talking about transparency and the public, be against a public call? I really don't think that makes any sense. We should encourage people who are competent, who have a reputation, here, from this place I congratulate Davor Derencinović, so to the head of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb for the criminal material law that he has become, who has been elected Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. So, we and the professors of great people who can behave, have us and among lawyers, have us and among the Presidents of the Supreme Court, among the judges of the Supreme Court, we have great people who have something to say, but we have to give them one tolerated environment, one tolerable atmosphere to answer this public call that will probably follow because how the club announcements are hard for us, that any candidate, that the proposed candidate, will get the necessary majority. I repeat, the HDZ Club will not support this candidate for these two reasons. And as for the next steps, we hope in fact that as many candidates as possible will come forward so that the applicant can make a quality proposal. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53025	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the club debate. Now we'll take a 10 minute break and we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes. We have 17 individual discussions and so far a registered club for the final debate. I'll see you at 11 and 10. It's 11:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53026	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.10 HOURS]] And now we're moving on to individual debates, it's Mr. Milan Vrkljan's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53027	Respect, Mr. Chairman. We have a very interesting situation today, discussing whether Zlata Djurdjevic will be elected Supreme Court President. On the one hand, we have the SDP and the left-handed that we're defending, and on the other hand we have HDZ that hasn't attacked it with any sentence, not one thought, not one part, and it says it won't. Strange ideology scares me a little bit of that HDZ position that no man, no person, and she has nothing to object to. But let's see what we can do as parliamentary representatives to preserve the dignity of this assembly, which we can object to, Zlata Djurdjevic. She said in one media a few days ago that if I am not elected Supreme Court President, the constitutional crisis will take place. Imagine that she has a bad, low and incredibly despised opinion towards this home, if she is not elected, there will be a constitutional crisis, as if other candidates do not exist. Then, Zlata Djurdjevic has her own history at a very problematic moment in Croatian politics, which is the trial of Perkovic and Mustac, who had to happen in Germany in Munchen and Zlata Djurdjevic had that place where she challenged certain activities, and with that she even said that the crime that happened to this family was in the process of obsolescence. What bothers me most personally is that after the verdict in Munchen where the alleged convicted criminals UDBA Perkovic and Mustac appeared and where many new evidence of the crimes that UDBA has been committed towards Croatian citizens across Europe and the world, Zlata Djurdjevic did not speak after the facts were brought to the table. However, we do not even have to object to her because the Croatian judiciary was not manifested by the fact that no new process was proven in Munich, although there is a whole book of evidence for many other people who participated in the persecution of Croats. Then, Zlata Djurdjevic, in her political and academic activity several years ago, actively collaborated with Jaksa Barbic, who was an intimus of Ivo Sanader and she was a consultant to Jakša Barbic for the MOL dispute, which has caused damage to several hundred million kunas for the Republic of Croatia, and we never found out what the fees of Zlata Djurdjevic were for this consultation. Worse than that, Zlata Djurdjevic said she did not want to answer that question because it is a political issue. Many of our younger citizens don't know it's '45. in the center of Zagreb 5,000 apartments were evicted, and 20,000 of their residents were expelled from their apartments thanks to the communist authority that Zlata Djurdjevic never condemned, and probably because she was an adviser and associate with former President Josipovic, who allegedly lives in one of those 800 square-square apartments according to media publications. And finally, Zlata Djurdjevic recognized Europe because 2017 She didn't accept her candidacy for an international court of justice. Zlata Djurdjevic and her possible choice, in my opinion, is a personal insult, familyly painful for everyone who, after World War II, felt the functioning of the communist judiciary. It was not a life-long profession but an ideology and this communist ideology that was condemned by political and democratic EU countries, or all of our coalition partners. We need a rule of law for Croatia, we need a European Croatia, not a Balkan Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53028	Thank you very much. You have replicas. Mr. Vrkljan, you have replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53029	Your Honor, I understand your views, your political attitudes, your thinking and your need to say something about Mrs. Poirot. Djurdjevic. However, when you try to quote it it would be good to quote it correctly because otherwise it turns out quite differently for the public. - Namely, Mrs. Crescent. Djurdjevic said the following. Because of the length of the procedure, I think it is not good for this election because it allows it to be possible that a constitutional crisis will occur if I am not chosen specifically because it will not be elected in time by the President of the Supreme Court. So she did not question the choice of other candidates but said there was no time to do so by 15.7.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53030	I can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53031	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53032	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53033	Here you go, yeah, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53034	Mr. MP, Zlata Djurdjevic, with this statement, has shown that she does not respect the RS assembly and that she believes that we are immature and politically immature that he has made decisions that will concern her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53035	Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53036	Thank you very much. You said in your debate now that we as HDZ did not say anything about Mrs. Djurdjevic in the sense that we are essentially independent to her proposal, etc., I believe that we have said very clearly after the first procedure was completed that she could no longer be a candidate that we would support since she agreed to be a candidate in the illegal procedure of the first public call. And it's clear there, if you want to be the first to oversee the legality of all processes or make decisions in certain situations legally or otherwise, you can't be the one who agreed to be a candidate in a procedure that was against the law. Well, that was the first part of our struggle in HDZ to prove that the legality of the process is important in the election of the Supreme Court president. And that is quite enough regardless of individual episodes, certain opinions, legal opinions by Mrs. Djurdjevic or so. So that's the most important part we persist on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53037	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53038	I'm very happy when HDZ talks about procedure. Remember before the 2nd session of the meeting when the committee, the Parliament's Economic Committee, proposed on the basis of a proposal and a list made by Minister Ćorić to elect a member of the Governing Council of HERE and when it was fully raped by the procedure that the absolute executive power should not have been made, because in 2018, the Republic of Croatia accepted the EU's directive that a member of the HERE Steering Council should not be elected by the executive authority but by the parliament, unfortunately, the president allowed this control, allowed this violence, led to the questionable rise of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and the interrelationship of the parliament between and the executive authorities. So the procedure is yes, but when you talk about it then it has a whole other dimension.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53039	Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53040	I don't have a replica I just have a really short card. So, Michelle Jaksic in 1986, I wasn't even a pioneer of Tito's is the only crime to me that I walked into communism and learned to read and write, you were in communism and graduated and worked in public administration because health care is, from my family no one worked in the state administration of the party at the time or was a member of the party. I congratulate you with all my heart that in the debate on the Croatian judiciary you have reintroduced the tips of communism that are probably around us, it is very important that communism is so perfect that it has laundered out of its rottenness and is no longer available today, but you have probably found an excuse for inaction in the Croatian judiciary because because of communism it is normal for Mamici to run across the border, to turn out to be the reformers of the Croatian judiciary, to arrest judges for them and that this communism is why we can't make a switch and change in the Croatian judiciary for the better. If you needed it as an explanation for the easy steps towards HDZ, I congratulate you with all my heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53041	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53042	Mr. Representative, you're young but that doesn't mean you don't have to be read, that doesn't mean you don't need to be educated. If you had been educated then you would have known what was happening to the Croatian people in '45. Until after the war several years after many civilians were killed, in the end your president spoke yesterday in Brezovica about the crimes committed by communist, Partisan formations in Zagreb and throughout Croatia. Therefore, educate yourself, read, and then you will be much better president of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53043	No more replicas, thank you very much, there's one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that my colleague Vrkljan hurt Article 238, namely counterpart Michel Jaksic and his CV is available, he has his degree, the man is definitely educated and told someone that uneducated can be said exclusively in an offensive context.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53045	Well, I followed, it was, it was borderline, so I'd suggest if you'd agree to move on. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53046	Ladies and gentlemen, the election of Supreme Court Presidents could be renamed in the debate on the main culprit for the troubles facing Croatian citizens because the judiciary is a lead ball that does not allow the Croatian state to move and develop in the right direction. Croatian citizens pay 1700 judges and other judicial officials to enable these citizens to be equal, the possibility of normal and safe life in Croatia. The result is just the opposite. The result of the work of the judiciary was published by the European Commission the other day, which says that Croatia is the second weakest in terms of wage power with the fact that last year's wage power fell still and the last member, i.e. Bulgaria's raise. It is a matter of time before we are the poorest state in the EU because the Croatian judiciary generates corruption, encourages similar entrepreneurs, prevents capable, rejects foreign investors and creates a climate of hopelessness. A group ruling the Croatian judiciary is not only made up of judges and politicians but also other areas benefiting from such justice. Zlata Djurdjevic is undoubtedly an integral part of today's ruling establishment in Croatia. She herself states that it is permanent in the working bodies of the budgetary institutions that Plenkovic's so-called. The HDZ government has proposed to judge the International Criminal Court, and Milanovic's government has hired her as a legal adviser in the arbitration of INA MOL. In both cases, the international authorities rejected it. Indeed, one who is named in Croatia as prominent as Mrs Djurdjevic, as president of the HAZU class of legal science, Jaksu Barbic, as Ivo Josipovic, always rejects international circles. You must be credible on the international floor, there are no double criteria. To my question of the scandalous favoring of the interest agencies by the courts who accept contracts with the blacked out amounts of Mrs. Djurdjevic defends judges and claims they are independent and must not be sanctioned for their decisions. However, when it comes to her friends, as in the case of a first-degree verdict against the wife of Milorad Pupovac, journalist Lukic, Mrs. Djursevic calls on the justice minister to act, he says, against the illegal verdicts of some judges. This is the crown proof of the double standards of the candidate Djurdjevic, but it is about the following, various public employees, such as Mrs. Djurdjevic. Djurdjevic, in the interest of powerful structures, writes different watches, for which in the normal world a decent man is ashamed. In return, on behalf of the state, these structures are running for international functions, giving her advisory positions, as in the arbitration of the INA-MOL, for which beautiful fees are received, in short, the ruling caste throws objects, jobs and functions at each other, and all of these are paid by Croatian citizens. The result of their work is that we are the second poorest EU country, and their methods are known and always have the same handwriting, so here's a very similar case. In 1985 communist powerman Jakov Blažević said in the press Polet, quote, Stepinac was not elastic, so we had to judge him. It caused different comments in the international press because they all said, the prosecutor admitted Stepince's process was mounted. The highest communist bodies in Croatia then meet and conclude that the damage needs to be reduced, that the JAZU should organise a round table and call for suitable partners to defend the character and work of Jako Blažević. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day, HAZU organized a round table run by Jakša Barbic for the purpose of Mrs. Djurdjevic portrays it as a solution to judicial problems. The same Jaksa Barbic organised a roundtable at the HAZU a few years ago based on the fight against corruption, and the main speaker was Ivo Sanader. - Mrs. Crescent. Djurdjevic, like Jakov Blažević, admitted her role. I quote, I've made myself available to state bodies. The judge must not be made available to anyone other than the Constitution and the law, but this Croatian establishment does not understand. But this is understood by the European public and Croatian citizens. While they are well and bear the titles of dignitaries, we, Croatian citizens, will be ill. That's why we have to replace them. The mental set of those who manage the Croatian judiciary is not at the level of European and democratic values. They give themselves titles of dignitary, expert, anti-fascist, etc., and in fact it is a closed, non-transparent, non-prising, corrupting circle and therefore we must fight for the rule of law and European values and create a fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53047	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica. You don't have a replica, no. [[/Intruder: No replicas?]] Now it's Mr. Michel Jaksic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53048	Thank you, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to use half a minute of my initial review just to respond to my colleague, Vrkljana, since I've brought out my family's communist antiquities here, you don't have to teach me what it was in '45, my grandfather survived Bleiburg, so I know a little bit about it and Communism, and I know how hard and painful it is, but on the other hand, nothing surprises me because those same people who didn't allow my family to work in the 80s in the state sector, while you were working in the '90s, accusing them of being communists because they didn't want to enter HDZ. So you and I probably will never agree on that. And I can understand you. I'd like to start this debate in a way that, first of all, I think we need to refer as parliamentary representatives a few apologies. A few apologies and interested parties, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I think we should start by saying to the Croatian scientific community, not only because of Zlata Djurdjevic, but because of all the mud-wrestling that was experienced by the Croatian legal profession, because despite the fact that it will only come back to Zlata Djurdjevic again, we cannot agree to such a level of communication because several times it has been dragged that there is no one who is the professor who will enter this closed circle of Croatian exclusive judges. Now, the question is, if these teachers are good enough to be questioned by some judges, you have to get a grade from them to get a degree, so that nobody has enough competence to get into that exclusive circle that we so dazzlingly want to do and leave to continue to exist. On the other hand, we must apologize to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who have left our beautiful country because they have stopped believing in Croatian institutions, because they have stopped believing that it is possible to achieve righteousness and because they simply realized that there are equal and equal in many cases in the direction of the Croatian judiciary because this is what we are saying that we do not care about them. Of course, we also have to apologize to all those people who, in the Croatian judiciary, the police and the attorney's office, do their job fairly and honestly and often get cut off because what's almost permanent when we get to big fish, to crack measures, to rip off across the border, to disappear, to have the Crown Witnesses change their statements under cover of night, so we should apologize to all those people because we simply showed that we don't care about them. Again, in 2021, after all we've been through for our independence, after all that's happened to us and what's happened to us since when the independent state is still ready to dive through ideology, after Ustavl and Communism, and not admit what structural problems the Croatian judiciary has. So, by the perception of the Croatian judiciary, we are unfortunately the worst in the EU. What do people lie about in research? When we scratched large objects, how long did some last, how many ended up out of date, how many of those big ones fled across the border without justice? Do we agree that this is something that is not normal and that cannot exist in Croatia in 2021? And instead of focusing on the debate, the content, which is what we want to change, how we want to change it, so whether it is necessary to shake up that judicial system, rather than allowing that one closed caste behind closed doors to declare itself about candidates that no one has access inside to hear what they are saying and that it turns out that those who promote themselves are going to reward, punish, and all that goes with the Croatian judiciary. Instead of saying enough of this caste, we want an honest and independent judiciary, let's try to shake it up, we're done with ideology again. The key question to who does that suit? Is that right for us in the assembly? I want to believe you don't. Does that suit the citizens of this country? Of course not. Does that suit the economy? Well, of course not because who normally wants to come invest in a country where there's such a high level of mistrust in the judiciary. So we're ready to regain awareness of how to protect one of these same characters who got a good deal out of Communism that got better then ran to HDZ and became the new judges of the new Croatia. Do we want to give those criminals who run across the border for the first time? Do we want to give to all those who actually make fun of Croatian citizens and our judicial bodies daily? I believe that none of us here want it, and I hope that even today, in the debate, but also at the vote, the desire to change in the Croatian judiciary will prevail because we are several times today. I've heard from all sides that it's just not good. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53049	Thank you very much. You have replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Wrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53050	Your Honor, I'm glad you're ready to talk about the crimes of communists and anti-fascists, and yesterday was the marking of '41. 80 years since the departure of Croatian anti-fascists into the forest Bezovica and I am interested in your opinion. Are they '41? When they went to Brezovic, they believed it would be '45. the year to come to Zagreb to tear down the monument of Ban Jelačić, to tear down the monument in Karlobog Sima Starčević, to bring him to Belgrade Hebrang in handcuffs and beat him like a dog with a radiator and did you believe that they would be in '91. To declare Tudjman a man of dangerous intent and from today's position are they winners or defeated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53051	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53052	Mr. Vrkljan, this is a debate on the situation in the Croatian judiciary, candidate Zlati Djurdjevic and everything I think anyone normal in this country who wants this country can't do well and can't be satisfied. I told you my private genealogy, I didn't have to, my view of communism, Bleiburg, how my family was in some stages getting through and you're not gonna get me into this debate. If for some reason you have to follow your dirty conscience and drill into your heroic chest I won't bother you on that road, but you do it with someone else. I'm not interested, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53053	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, first sir, who was first, Mr. Wrkljan, had and, please, here you go, but with the microphone is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53054	Yes, Mr. Representative, I didn't start this debate, you called me first, but I call you on the basis of Rules of Procedure 238, that when I ask you a question that you answer me a specific question, and you don't talk about your family genealogy as I have answered your question, and you twist my question and you give an answer that I didn't ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53055	Same answer as before. Let's move on, the second breach of the Rules of Procedure is from the gentleman she was from, from Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53056	Dear Ministers, Article 238, my colleague insulted my colleague, Vrkljana, said that the bus was about his heroic chest, and I don't think it's the level of one parliamentary representative to behave like it's not the level that you call your colleague Vrkljana what he was doing in that system. As far as I know, he's a doctor by profession, why don't you do, what's supposed to be at the employment office or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53057	Same answer as before I gave Mr. Jaksic. I would ask you from now on to go this little bit less personal and more and more to focus on the subject because it's actually our job. Thank you very much, Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53058	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53059	And there's another replica, and I'm sorry, there's more replicas, Mr. Maric, to see now. Here you go. Mrs. Maric, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53060	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you for noticing my sex. My dear colleague, I will take advantage of your position as chairman of the Justice Committee, you've had the opportunity to listen to all the candidates and see their CVs, programs, etc., we have here at the disposition to see professional training, professional path professor. Zlate Djurdjevic, her work programme. Since she's been given three votes for, the rest one for and remained abstention and against, which you think would set her apart as something that would set her off as the best candidate for the Supreme Court president in her program and everything she's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53061	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, Mrs. Maric. I didn't replace your sex. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53062	So what I've done several times is apostrophe, and I've heard a lot of colleagues and colleagues say it's apostrophe, so I'm a CV professor. Golden Djurdjevic is something we can't throw any black stains at. So she is definitely a Croatian legal expert and as such it is certain that she has enough theoretical knowledge to run the Croatian Supreme Court. What has been placed as one questionnaire is its possible practical knowledge, but the attitude that I am prepared to defend, and I think that the Croatian citizens who are dissatisfied with the situation in the Croatian judiciary are also giving us the right to do so, is that simply this system should be shaken, changed, that it should be released in fresh blood, of course one person cannot change everything and change it, but it would be a good message that we are still ready to go through a new direction and positive and affirmative changes in the Croatian judiciary because if we leave them in this caste syndrome in which we are today, I am afraid that we will not go far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53063	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53064	It is unfortunate that a young man ignores facts and arguments because of careerism. You, Mr. Jaksic, led the Committee on Justice in the Intervention of Ms. Djurdjevic in a way that is as if we were interviewing some kind of leader of some sort of birt, not a candidate for the Supreme Court, determining that we have to hurry, that 30 minutes is a long time, you know, 5 days, after 5 months we need to discuss it, after 5 months we need to discuss it, not that you, in your way of leading this Committee and that interview, are not allowing the truth to come out. It's sad that you're part of, here, your party, too, part of something called corruption. As a break, you are also responsible for the Executive Law and for criminal pre-departure deals, at no point have you stood up as a young man against these great injustices that drive our people to despair and to existential problems to the level of disappearance. You know, that's a big problem. Facts and arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53065	Time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53066	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. He's been injured. 238 Since MP Vidovic Kristo has demeaned the work of the president of the Committee, the topic of today's session is the election of the Supreme Court president. And she did not ask him a question or replicate it, but commented on his work as chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53067	I'm not going to give any more damage to the Rules of Procedure in this case, because it's, I still see this one, like, like I said before on the edge. But it's getting more and more worn out, so you know. - Mrs. Crescent. Vidovic Kristo, to know that it is worn out now slowly, everyone, not just you, is not just telling you, that my, that my tolerance today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53068	Of course. Art. 238, just for the sake of Mrs. A colleague of the Parliament's attorneys. The management of this committee is directly linked to the election of the Supreme Court president, so that the assessment and presentation of the fact that was below each level is not worthy of what was to be, and is very much linked to today's debate on Mrs. Djurdjevic is connected and it is necessary to talk about it. Here, I accept every decision you make on this violation of my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53069	I didn't hurt you here, I won't give you any harm either. Mr. Shimičević, replica. That's my attitude. Here's Mr. Shimičević's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53070	Thank you, Vice President. [[I didn't answer the line. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53071	Yeah, you didn't respond to the line, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53072	Since my colleague Vidovic Kristo didn't ask me anything but had a mild free speech, then I'll have a small free speech. So, a session of the Justice Committee... It lasted four and a half hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All MPs and MPs could be present, there was a live stream, the media were allowed inside all the time, they could film, they could transmit, so much about transparency. In parallel, the General Session of the Supreme Court and meetings of the Constitutional Court and the DSV session where decisions on such matters are closed to the public. So that's the answer to the question of transparency. After the session itself, you thanked me for letting you ask more or less everything you intended, on the other hand, members and members of the Justice Committee made a unanimous decision that they wanted the session to be conducted and you were still able to lie and you said that I was in a hurry because I was in a hurry for lunch. I stayed to sit down after that for another three hours, and you got away after that. Am I lying?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53073	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure and we begin here, yes. Two injuries, we start this game of warning now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53074	Mr. Chairman, someone has to be called a lie. It has to be very argumentative, very clear and unequivocally. When the pressure came on that justice session, I said, if someone or you're in a hurry to have lunch, that's not why we're rushing this important debate right now. I think that under each level, this is how to deceive the Croatian public. It's not about transparency, it's about suffocating the truth. It worked here in a transparent way. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53075	Thank you very much. No, no, no, it wasn't a replica. [[I'll be right back.]] It wasn't a replica, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't mention the article, and only because of that, no, you didn't. And besides, it was a pure replica. Uh, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53076	So... I'm not allowed to respond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you're not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53077	No, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't answer, you can't answer, you can answer Mr. Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53078	Mr. Chairman, you are the chairman of the Parliament today and I ask you to protect the integrity of the Parliament. Of the MPs telling the other parliamentary representative to lie. From a parliamentary representative who, after completing his speech, says that the parliamentary representative was a cymbal? That's the level of the street and I ask you as chairman who is acting as President of the Parliament right now, intervene before I have the need to intervene and any other parliamentary representative. [[That's not what I said.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53079	Thank you very much. Since my previous tolerance, you've now responded with the audible of me, I'm giving you a warning. Sir, ma'am. Bad Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53080	Thank you. Art. 238 counterpart Vidovic Kristo, I think it was not enough, but too much, you resent fellow Jaksic for saying without argument that you are lying, and you have unargumentedly told him that the Committee's session was held as, I don't know, a conversation in the bureau. ... That, I'm sorry, but it's also an insult to the MPs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53081	Okay, it was a replica. I mean, by definition, a warning. Sir, and now we're going to the replicas. It's Mr. Shimičević, three warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53082	I thank.../incomprehensible/... The Parliament. Here, finally. Your Honor, here's my question, since you're the chairman of the board. Do you think the president has led this situation to absurdity by actually disrespecting procedure and others, does it seem to you that in the media it is written in such a way that the election of Zlata Djurdjevic as president of VSRH will ruin the judiciary in Croatia, i.e. it is she who will save the Croatian judiciary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53083	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53084	So that there is one single person who can reverse the situation in the Croatian judiciary, definitely does not exist. If there were a few of them and there must be a professor, Zlata Djurdjevic, my personal opinion is that. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, Zoran Milanovic, as president of the Republic, had his own constitutional powers interpreted, went that way, eventually Minister Malenica himself announced that there would be some changes to the Law on Courts, so it wasn't exactly that Zoran Milanovic had missed everything, that he had made everything wrong, the Constitutional Court itself made a decision at the speed of lightning, I must say that it made me laugh a little bit when Miroslav Šeparovic came out of the media and said better and set up the competition than any competition, I think it was such a structure. It's not exactly something that should cheer us up, but my God, we're used to that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53085	Thank you very much, you are free for now, not a replica, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, I thought it was Mrs. Oreshkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53086	Thank you. So someone has to say this, Zoran Milanovic is the main culprit for why Zlata Djurdjevic will not be elected Supreme Court president, his wrong moves, the mistakes in steps and the very ugly rhetoric that Zlata Djurdjevic herself has accepted, and you from the SDP have continued her. So calling our judges a closed caste is very harmful and toxic. So if we have 1700 judges who are one caste, that means we need to disband them all together. And your weights as Zlata Djurdjevic should be chosen to put some fresh in there, the new blood is so wrong and so bad because I ask you a question if you are aware that according to the Law on Courts, Zlata Djurdjevic can remain in that same court after the term of the President of the Supreme Court. So what will be our judgment then, will it be then? will it be corrupt, will it then be HDZ's, will it be all the ugly things about justice? [[Intruder: Time.]] We're talking these days. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53087	Here's a gentleman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53088	So, you didn't listen to me very carefully, and at the beginning of my debate, I apologized to all those people in the judiciary, the lawyers and the police who are doing their job honestly. When I was talking about closed caste, I was talking about the current Supreme Court structure, and you can't tell me that there's no caste closed when no one, we let now Zlata Djurdjevic, none of the candidates who answered this public call, and not a member or member of the Supreme Court is good enough for them 38 at a secret session behind closed doors. Don't be mad at me. It's caste behavior. As for Zoran Milanovic, I am not his lawyer, nor do I plan to be his lawyer, every man has his own style of work and behavior, he has his own, I have mine, you have yours, and whoever's to blame for whether Zlata Djurdjevic will be elected or not will be the ones who will or will not vote for it, and Zoran Milanovic here, as far as I know, will not sit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53089	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53090	238, I find it offensive to say that I did not listen carefully to the judiciary, and as far as the Supreme Court is concerned, I personally have had a terrible amount of objections to the judiciary, how to solve these problems even in 2019, I wrote to the Croatian Parliament to resolve it. However, we all forget at the Supreme Court there are very many high-quality judges who have invested in their scientific and professional qualifications for decades and have apparently some of their reasons by reading the work programmes of individual candidates. and have on those candidates remarks. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53091	It was a replica across all the canons of replicas and I have to give you a reminder, by all the canons of replicas. And now it's Mr. Damir Habian's turn, this vision of me today is not the one that was otherwise sharp and excellent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53092	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the election of the President or President of the Supreme Court in the last few months is definitely in the public's focus, and I would say that this is actually normal and common since it is about selecting the highest judicial officer in our judicial system. Unfortunately, however, the choice of President of the Supreme Court is not a public focus because of its importance, but because of the strange derrogation of the positive rules of the Republic of Croatia and insisting on a procedure contrary to the provisions of the Law on Courts, with consciously ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So today we are discussing the motion for a decision made by the President of the Republic, we are discussing a specific person, we are discussing its programme that has been delivered, which has also been presented on the Justice Committee, but I do not think we can ignore certain facts that occurred during the first public call. I also do not think that we can ignore the fact that, first of all, a public invitation was called for the selection of the candidate of the Republic of Croatia as a judge at the European Court of Human Rights where I personally participated as a member of the commission that opened the tender, which held a conversation with candidates including Prof. Djurdjevic. There were a total of 7 candidates and candidates and all of them answered a public call. What I'm interested in, which I didn't get a response to on the Justice Committee, so where did this Copernicus turn happen, how did that happen? Djurdjevic made a public call six months ago, and now she hasn't answered. How is that possible? It's also an interesting thesis that Professor. Djurdjevic gave a daily newspaper where I quote it, he cannot question the constitutionality of someone's proceedings until the Constitutional Court makes a decision on it. So, if I understand her quote correctly, it turns out that the laws that are in force can be ignored, that these laws can only be violated because someone thinks that it is not in accordance with the Constitution. We can give a plastic example, does this mean that, for example, a group of citizens who disagree with the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination feel that they are the same unconstitutional can for so long as the Constitutional Court does not confirm that they are in conformity with the constitution to ignore this law and violate those provisions. Does that mean anything? Also in the debate before the Parliamentary Committee on Justice in the presentation of the programme of Prof. Djurdjevic has put great emphasis on the issue of instructive deadlines or the fact that judicial authorities are over-compensating the same contributions in some way by stalling the court proceedings themselves. In fact, they can agree in that part, however, what is more interesting is the time limit for making public calls because respect for the procedure is a pre-inclusive time limit and its overrun comes to the loss of the right to take a certain action, so I find it unclear that in my programme as one of the elements for speeding up the resolution of court proceedings, it states that it has not made a public call within a pre-inclusive period, and after missing that deadline which leads to the loss of the right to take action, concrete participation in this process, it agrees to be part of that procedure. How's that? What is particularly surprising is that such a procedure by the President of the Republic of Croatia is supported by the SDP, which is precisely the SDP during the amendment and addition of the Courts Act 2018. commended and supported the above changes. For example, the then parliamentary representative and former justice minister, and now the head of the office of president of the Republic of Croatia, said during the debate, i.e. 2018. in this home, I quote: Certainly one of the best things the law adopts is to regulate the election of the Supreme Court president, there we have been deficiting so far and that is a great shift. It's a finished quote. Now the question is which is the real SDP, so is it the one from 2018? which has advocated this very procedure of election, so the Supreme Court president or this SDP now in favour of the illegal election of the Supreme Court president? It also raises the question which is the real president of the SDP, or whether it is a colleague of Grbin, who is 2018. In this assembly, too, the new election procedure of the Supreme Court President called a good solution or a colleague of Bauk who is now initiating a procedure for assessing compliance with the constitution of this particular law? I hope there's an opportunity in the replicas to say something more concrete about the very objections to the program. These are some of the reasons why I believe that the proposed candidate cannot perform the post of Supreme Court President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53093	Thank you, too, Mr. Habib. Now he's got a replica first, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53094	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Habian, here, as you have said in your presentation, we have witnessed and the fact is that over the past period, the election of the President or the President of the Supreme Court has become a fertile ground for various manipulations, insulations, false claims, spread anxiety among citizens in order to in some way cloud everything that is crucial and important, and that is primarily the transparency of the election of the President, the President of the Supreme Court. One of the issues that has passed over the past few days is that which is heading towards creating uncertainty and anxiety amongst the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is unless the Supreme Court president is elected to face a constitutional crisis. The very word constitutional crisis is certainly something that is a real great unrest among citizens, so I would ask you to explain to me what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53095	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53096	Thank you very much. You have noticed a well-respected colleague, so in the last few days the constitutional crisis has been mentioned, which is, of course, not true, and I think it is good for the Croatian public to explain, therefore, that the Law on Courts is, in particular, an article. 44c. very clearly prescribed what happens in case tomorrow HS doesn't choose the Supreme Court president. That is when, according to the schedule, the Deputy Executive Deputy shall be appointed, at this time, that is, the place of Deputy Supreme Court of Justice, i.e. in particular the colleague or judge Marin Mrcela. Therefore, I think it is not good to send these messages to the public because they further disturb the public. I think first of all we need to read the law and see that in fact, everything in the law is prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53097	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53098	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you keep pointing out that Zlati Djurdjevic resented that she didn't initially answer a public call, bypassed the procedure, said you'd look back on some of her objections in her program. However, the fact is that none of you at the HDZ on the Justice Committee supported any other candidate. So my question is what does the candidate for, or potential, the president or the president of the Supreme Court have to have for you from HDZ? She would also quote what Mr. Bošnjakovic said on behalf of the HDZ Club position, so I guess that's your point of view. I quote, we want a public call where people who won't mud, who will be encouraged, all those who have ambition and programme, who are competent, have a reputation etc. So what's your message to these candidates who made a public call, who didn't go over the procedure, if that's how you voted on the Justice Committee and you have the kind of exposure you have?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53099	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53100	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm wondering if you would like to meet formal legal requirements in such an atmosphere that was created primarily thanks to the fact that it must be emphasized to the President of the Republic of Croatia as an authorised promoter, would you report that you would know in advance what his position is? And what did Bosnjakovic say about what kind of message is that to those who have come forward when they know in advance that they will not be proposed? What kind of atmosphere is this and encourages all those high-quality and competent people who have a vision and who want to make a certain change within the Supreme Court when the president of the state has his candidate and says in advance I will propose him, what message does he send to the Croatian public?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53101	Mrs. Devereaux. Maric, it was too late, but I'm still giving you a chance, but you know, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53102	Thank you very much. Art. 238, I'm risking a warning, but my colleague, Habib, didn't actually answer what I asked him, and the question was, why didn't you support any candidates on the Justice Committee? Obviously, no one's good for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53103	Mrs. Devereaux. Maric, don't, Mr. Habian. Maric I'll let you know if I have to, but wait... Wait, wait, wait, wait. I have to answer. Mrs. Devereaux. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maric, if it's bad to hurt the Rules of Procedure without knowing that you hurt him, imagine how bad it is to hurt the Rules of Procedure knowing that you hurt him? I'll give you a warning. I'll give you a heads-up, but I have the impression that this Rules of Procedure will have to change in due course. Here's the violation of Mr. Habian's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53104	Here I didn't know you were going to make a decision like this, so since you've shared a reminder, I agree, that's exactly what I wanted to suggest, but allow the HDZ Club to have its own, it has the right to take its own opinion when it comes to a session of the Justice Committee. But I accept your... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53105	Yeah, but I have to give you a heads-up because you hurt yourself, too, you hurt the Rules of Procedure normally. Mr. Shimičević's replica. So two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53106	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, the president of the state has a legitimate right to propose a candidate, but he has no right to violate the procedure, and the president has just done so, and we should at once applaud him. That's the same man, the president of the state who calls his country a random state, running away from marking the anniversary of the Homeland War, and now suddenly he's the biggest right-wing and, behold, he's guilty of HDZ for all his exhibitionism, so please comment on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53107	Thank you, too. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53108	Dear fellow Members, I can agree with you, what you would especially point out and what you keep pointing out, especially colleagues on the left hand side of the assembly, which is a matter of trust in the judiciary. So what kind of message does the President of the State send when he acts beyond the Constitution as the highest institution of this country, acts beyond the law and sees no problem at all, but sees the problem in everything else. So he sees the problem in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which I think every state body should start to respect from him, which on several occasions very detailedly explained for which reason the Law on Courts, in particular this provision, is in line with the Constitution, so what message the first man of the state sends such a message, how then the citizens have confidence in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53109	- Mrs. Crescent. Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53110	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Habiban, so listening to your debate at the very beginning, you made one argument why not Zlata Djurdjevic. So explain to me what your argument is that Zlata Djurdjevic is not like or is not similar solely because she is the candidate of the president of the Republic of Croatia? And the Constitution is clear here. So the President/President elects the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53111	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53112	I have to admit that I don't think I said it that way and I didn't really understand what you wanted to say, I just said that it was the first public call she hadn't answered and it was the legitimate right of everyone, but after it was finished she accepted to be part of it or she accepted the candidacy from the president of the state. So, I think I was very, very clear in what I actually said and what I meant to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53113	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53114	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, this is where you pointed out in your debate that Mrs. Poirot was. Djurdjevic was also in his programme in some things and later in presenting to us board members, inconsistencies. So I would also cite one of her findings from the programme where she listed, quote "The independence of the judiciary is the value that Croatia has yet to build". On my personal question as to why she listed it and whether or not she felt that the independence of the judiciary in Croatia, she said she didn't think it was a public perception and from the very context in the programme did not seem to think so. So I really doubt everything she said about origin. She also feels that she has not acted illegally even though she has agreed to be a candidate in a procedure where she has not made a public call, so I'm asking you if anyone at all who submits to such a duty may be a credible candidate if he does not comply with the laws. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53115	Thank you, thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53116	Thank you very much. I thank you for this question because you're giving me the opportunity to look back on the program a little bit. So this is exactly what I'm going to start with the last one. Therefore, on its 1st page of the programme that the President or President of the Supreme Court must strictly adhere to the Constitution and the law and already on this pre-step before being elected, it violates the Constitution and the law. As far as her programme is concerned, I agree that there are many things that are diametrically opposite, in the first part it is said that the system of the 1990s was influenced by politics, then, in some of its ideas, it is now in favour that it would politicise this judiciary when it mentions DSV, where in its opinion most members should actually be of the order of representatives, which is actually a direct influence then politics, then we could talk about some HDZ or some SDP judiciary. It also shows countries that have such a system, again incorrectly, states France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria that they choose through parliament, therefore their judges, which is entirely incorrect, so in these countries only judges choose executive power. There's more to it, about digitization. which we also mentioned, here... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53117	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53118	Thank you very much. Comrade Habian, here's a full five months. Since the first public invitation has been issued, we have been struggling with two perceptions or thesis that have been put in public in terms of the election of the President or the President of the Supreme Court. The first is that the choice of president is actually so important that we put one person, the Croatian judiciary becomes independent, it is no longer HDZ or SDP or I don't know whose, not party, is not party. The second point is that here, there should be no respect for the laws that this House, which the presidents of the office have also spoken about, as you yourself quoted the current President, so that this could then result in the election of the President of the Supreme Court or of the President, is that the President of the Republic has the authority to propose it regardless of the procedure. Have we succeeded and seen today from some debates that obviously we have, that these two things are actually not standing. And that legality must exist and that one person does not change the status of today's perception of the Croatian judiciary and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53119	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53120	Thank you very much. So I think it's quite clear, so I think that in fact most MPs and MPs have agreed, one person can't change the justice system, and so the law and the Constitution must be respected. What is important, therefore, is that this democratic process, therefore, exists in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Law on Courts of Persons who propose but also there is a home which has the right to choose a candidate who is considered to be the most competent and the right person to be the President of the Supreme Court. So the question can be asked whether this kind of insistence on this candidate can create a perception that it is a particular person who is not as independent as the SDP president here said, that it is an essential feature of independence. What kind of independence is that if one person is not driving you by the hand and pushing you into this process, so if that's the only feature you've pointed out here, independence. What kind of independence is that in these six months? if you were brought by the hand just so in front of this Parliament to be a candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53121	Thank you. And the last replica, Mrs. Crescent. Bad Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53122	Thank you. Comrade Habib, we've seen it from Mrs. Habian's biography. Djurdjevic, who we have come to appreciate is truly impressive and the résumé that has proposed the candidacy for the Supreme Court president confirms it. Among other things, experts who choose judges for the International Criminal Court have written their opinion for it that it has exceptional knowledge and excellence in the field of human rights, justice and international law, and that is exactly what Croatian citizens expect from the judiciary and the judiciary, and that is exactly what is clearly unsuitable to someone, an effective, independent and responsible judiciary and the fact is that you know that because you come from this profession, that more than 70% of the citizens do not believe in the judiciary and that I think that independence of the courts is very bad. Then I ask you, why not an independent and professional person on the job of President of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53123	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53124	Thank you very much. Well, I have to admit, given her résumé I've seen and her biography, it's really surprising that a person of such reference has agreed to be part of an illegal and illegal procedure. I can't answer that question yet, I can't answer the question, I haven't reached the end of her program nor with this replica, for example, that the person who claims to be president or president of the Supreme Court, doesn't understand or is not familiar with the fact that digitalisation in the Croatian judiciary has moved away, so she mentions that there is a need for digitisation, for example you have an e-script, you have e-communication, you have at the Trade Court in Varazdin since last year of the debate, so she doesn't distinguish what is good or the way to choose judges, so these are some things that, in my personal opinion and according to the position of the HDZ Representatives Club, are necessary for the person to get the trust from us right from the HDZ Club, but unfortunately this candidate has not met it and for the reason that who, as well as my colleague Bosnakovic, such a candidate, we cannot support. Despite her resume.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53125	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The moment in which the Supreme Court President is elected is the only time and procedure in which politics personnel or influences the human resources of the judicial authority in Croatia. In all other appointments, politics is deprived of the influence on the choice of judges and on the human resources of the judicial authority in Croatia. This is the moment when the Croatian Parliament, if we are to observe politics in Croatia, can influence the choice of officials in the Croatian judicial authority. However, it should be said to the end, it is the first man of the judicial authority in Croatia and that is the President of the Supreme Court. There is authority in the Croatian Parliament that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is in art. 116, which set out in the same article as the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia, who is the sole authority under the Constitution to propose the President of the Supreme Court and the Croatian Parliament is the only body in the country that, based on that same article of the same Constitution, decides on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia. We in HDZ, as well as colleagues Bosnjakovic and colleagues, do not support the proposal of the president of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because she's a candidate, Mrs. President. Zlata Djurdjevic, whom I personally think has an enviable, almost impressive scientific career, that the head of the Faculty of Criminal and Procedural Law Department in Zagreb, has agreed to be part of an illegal and then against the constitutional procedure that is being conducted by the Constitution and the Law on Courts, the process of appointment of the President or the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is a question of all issues that the HDZ Representatives Club will not overcome. Why am I saying this? Because the President of the Supreme Court or better said candidate for Supreme Court President must be the person in Croatia who is primarily the first legalist, who respects the rule of law and all the laws of the Republic of Croatia. - Mrs. Crescent. Zlata Djurdjevic, as a prominent legal expert, must have known as she knows today and as the entire Croatian public knows, especially the one who is legally educated, that the Law on Courts should have been respected, i.e. a specific article. 44. The Constitution. I do not accept and refuse to accept, replica, the HDZ indictment that it opposes the proposal of the president of the Republic of Croatia because it is Zlata Djurdjevic. We've never said that, we don't blame Mrs. Crescent. Zlati Djurdjevic, a professor at the Faculty of Law who did not answer a public call, never occurred to us because the conditions for applying for a public call issued by DSV did not consume more than 1000 or two Croatian citizens who have the conditions for a public call. It depends on their ambition, but we resent professor. Djudzrevic, who entered the procedure that was in force at the time she accepted the call from the president of the Republic of Croatia, was the Law on Courts which prescribed the election procedure of the Supreme Court president. And that decision, or the Constitutional Court's decision, taken by the Constitutional Court on March 23rd, has no bearing on it, would be the same attitude as if the Constitutional Court had abolished the Law on Courts because at the moment it appeared, the Law on Courts and Articles. 44th was in effect. Therefore, any conduct contrary to the law is unacceptable to us. The law is in force until it is amended by the Croatian Parliament or suspended by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia And while the law is in force every citizen of Croatia needs it [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to respect, above all, the candidate for the President or President of the Supreme Court. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53127	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Mrs. Maric has her first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53128	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here's a quote. You said, "Professor." Djurdjevic has an envious career but did not respect the procedure. Furthermore, you're saying that every candidate for Supreme Court President I quote again must respect all the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm going back to what I quoted from my colleague, Bosnjakovic, and my colleague Habian, he didn't answer me, so I guess you'll be the president of the HDZ Club. So, I quote, you want a public call where people who aren't going to be muddy, who are going to be encouraged, who are going to have ambition, a program that is competent, have a reputation. You had four and five candidates, one of them quit, and you didn't support any of them on the Justice Committee. Again, I ask why, I respect that you have the right to your position, but you are clearly giving a message to all these candidates who have responded, and to some potential in the next public call that you are obviously not doing well. Please make a specific clarification and answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53129	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53130	Speaking of a public call, your colleague, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Jaksic, has previously misquoted an unsuitable and unnecessary statement by the President of the Constitutional Court, that the President of the Constitutional Court has said that the public tender does not matter whether they are set up or not. That is not said, he said that the public tender, which is set up, must be insisted on the respected colleagues on the transparency of the public call, do their utmost to make the public call available to any Croatian citizen who has the conditions to participate in the procedure, and the decision is at the Croatian Assembly and at the HDZ Club who will be accepted and not supported by the participants in the public invitation. At this point, the HDZ Club has also assessed on, and through its representatives, the Justice Committee has been designated by all candidates who have responded to a public call.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53131	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Bačić, we have witnessed that the Harnga of HDZ on the election of the president or the President of the Supreme Court came first and foremost because HDZ stood on the defender of defence and constitutionality and legality and transparency not only of the public call but of the overall procedure of electing the President or the President of the Supreme Court, that this is the main criminal of the HDZ while at the same time we are witnessing that fellow parliamentary representatives who have and supported the Law on Courts were now ready to violate that procedure or were ready to put this whole process in a position and situation that is not in line with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53133	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53134	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53135	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bačić, therefore things are very simple, we will not choose the President or the President of the Supreme Court, we will not choose, on July 19th, his mandate ends, and absolutely I will not quote anyone who has said anything in public or how whoever referred or anything, but what I am interested in, I am interested in what is next. So, again or again, the call will be repeated, some candidates will return, and the president will have the opportunity to propose to the assembly because this is how the procedures are going. And if the president doesn't suggest how long we have that opportunity, or I guess you at the HDZ Club and the HDZ as the ruling party are thinking about some scenarios, until we can even be without the Supreme Court president, until when this can happen, by the end of the year, are we going to change in the second half of this year the law to see that we bridge it all together because it's a very real scenario who we can be. [[Time, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53136	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53137	I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr. Dark Taritash, so no crisis will occur on July 20th when Mr. Gyura Sessi's term ceases. No crisis will occur and the Law on Courts provides for how and how it will continue to work, with the work of the Supreme Court. On the other hand, how and how will the Law on the State Election Commission continue with the work of the State Election Commission. What we at the Representatives' Club, because you are asking me as a representative of the HDZ, we expect that after today and tomorrow, Mrs Zlata Djurdjevic, the President of the Republic of Croatia, or the State Judicial Council, will call a new public call, and the President of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution to act on the concerted action of all the members of the state authorities in Croatia, as well as the judicial authorities. President of the Supreme Court is the first official, first [[Intruder: Time.]] i.e. the first official of the judicial authority in Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53138	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53139	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you've been in the assembly for a long time, remember that someone has violated the procedure for such an important function in the state's justice system and my question to you, is the president of our country now, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, responsible, which is, we all agree, that Mrs. President, Djurdjevic's excellent candidate, which she is, so to speak, has been spent in this way. Where's his responsibility here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53140	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53141	Well to me, I welcome the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia to continue the procedure of proposing candidates for, or candidates for, the President of the VSRH. I believe that the process between the two public calls, which was called by the DSV, was unnecessary and that it caused political damage and that it was absolutely unacceptable, unnecessary and I am convinced that both the President of the Republic of Croatia as a lawyer and longtime Prime Minister knew that this procedure was not in line with the Court Act. As I replied to Mrs. Devereaux. Mrak-Taritash, I expect that after this procedure a new public call is issued as soon as possible, it is not predetermined with the candidate because it then demotes serious candidates to answer this public call.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53142	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53143	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Bacic. So while Croatia continues to be perceived as one of the EU's most corrupt countries, we are today dealing with the fact that the biggest crime of Zlata Djurdjevic is that she has agreed to be the candidate of the president of the Republic of Croatia. So, why don't you explain to me if it's not crazy why not Zlata Djurdjevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53144	All right, we'll get over it. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53145	I thought someone was going to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure when you perform like this and speak whose act is crazy, whose isn't. But, colleague Nikolic, it goes to you, and I will repeat for who knows which time today, we are not against Zlata, Professor Zlata Djurdjevic because she is the candidate of the president of the Republic of Croatia because no one else in Croatia will be the President of the Supreme Court if he is not proposed by the Republic of Croatia. You need to understand that, and you need to understand that. By who knows what time we say that we are in the same positions that we were in on 8 March this year, that we are against the election of Zlata Djurdjevic for the reason that at the moment the Court Act agreed to enter into the process of electing the President, President of the Supreme Court against that law, and if that is not clear to you, if you You can't accept that, that's your problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's your problem, you understand? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We can't help you here anymore. No matter how hard we try. [[Thank you, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53146	Thank you. It doesn't apply to you. A ben that's next, but at all, let's choose the words, please. Please, let's choose our words. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53147	Thank you. Here, teaching that argument of yours again that it is an illegal procedure. The law on courts has not said a word and does not specify that the president has to make sure that these candidates who have submitted to the public tender propose to the candidate to the Assembly, nor has he anticipated what if the president does not want any of these candidates, whether they are going to the re-invocation or not. To resolve this because there was literally a legal void, it was not clear, it went to the Constitutional Court. But the Constitutional Court made a decision after Mrs. Djurdjevic agreed to be president's candidate from the moment when the Constitutional Court adopted an interpretation of the Law on Courts which was unclear and said that he was not clear and was not agreed at that moment, upon the next call of Mrs. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] Djurdjevic He's calling. [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you very much.]] Where's the illegality? Where?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53148	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53149	I, in the introduction, said, respected colleagues Bencic that for every lawyer, and you are a lawyer, it seems to me, but it does not have to be a lawyer man in order to know how to read the law, it was clear that no one in Croatia can, based on the Law on Courts, be a candidate for the President or the President of the Supreme Court unless the procedure of a public call has passed. And that's your point, and there's nothing I can add to that. The Constitutional Court later said and explained. For me personally, the decision of the Constitutional Court, for you, this attitude I present to you today is irrelevant. Even if the Constitutional Court gave the President of the Republic of Croatia the right and that the Law on Courts is anti-constitutional. Even if he gave it to the law. At the moment he suggested and when he was. Zlata Djurdjevic agreed to the procedure, she disqualified herself for us. The President of the Supreme Court, more than anyone in this country must obey the laws. And he can't send a message, I think the law is unconstitutional. And I will act against the law [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] It's started for you on which we've been on since day one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We insist on HDZ. [[Thank you. Time. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53150	- Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53151	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, you are constantly returning from HDZ to that first public call where Professor Djurdjevic did not answer, but here in the Assembly we are discussing the public call she made, the one that the Justice Committee had a debate on, which we have resolved for two and a half hours, so to speak, her and all the other candidates and candidates, where she presented her programme, where you say she is competent, and I can see from your discussions that she has ethical integrity, and why do you insist on refusing this candidate? Is it because President Milanovic proposed it and why in some way, is President Milanovic and Prime Minister in some way, to say, a duel with, among them, which actually entertains the public in some way? Why do you reject such a candidate apriora?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53152	Thank you very much. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53153	Dear colleague Nadj. Find one detail, one letter, one word, one statement, one sentence, in which I said I resent Mrs. Golden Djurdjevic for not answering his first public call? I don't blame her or anyone in Croatia who could have made that public call, I couldn't because I don't meet the conditions. All those in Croatia who met the conditions could come forward, but who I am or who any of us is who resents people who have a law school, 10 years of internships, passed a judicial exam, etc., not to report to that competition. I don't blame her for not waiting for the next public call you understand, the next public call from the State Judiciary Council that would be in accordance with the Law on Courts. And when, at no time did I enter your program, even though I read it in detail, into the program of Prof. Djurdjevic. I'd say something about that if we weren't her on March 8th when she agreed to this procedure. said that she was no longer a candidate for us to support because she was involved in an illegal procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is inadmissible for a candidate for Supreme Court President. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53154	Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53155	Dear colleague Bacic only two questions. The first question, given how much you are calling today for proceedings relating to the Law on Courts and interpretations which are your reasons under the Law on Courts, why can't you accept Zlata Djurdjevic I respect it is your absolute right, but then you would like to hear the view why, in parallel, everything by the minister is released information that will come to the end of the year to change the Law on Courts. Does this mean that what you're defending today is so perfect will still have to be improved along the way? And the second question is regarding the President of the Constitutional Court of Miroslav Šeparovic, you interpreted my comments about his comments, just one human question. Is it normal for you, given that for decades you have been an important factor in Croatian politics that we have a debate with the President of the Constitutional Court at all in 2021, it is not his fault, that it is good to have competitions even if they were set up and we will control them, is this a normal state of society? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53156	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53157	Comrade Jaksic, I invite you to go to Google or Youtube and listen to what the President of the Constitutional Court has said. He said I did well and carefully heard that if certain public tenders were set up that it was not a reason for them to be abolished and that's what I think, and you also think that you should be in that position, you should do everything you can not be set up to be clearly transparent, rather than abolish them because 5, 10, 15% is set up. If that's not clear to you, who are the president of this council's working body, then I can't tell you anything else. And there's no law that doesn't change, you know, colleague Jaksic. We change 300 a year, 400 laws. Therefore, if the Minister of Justice said that in a certain part he would improve the text of the law However, they will have our support, but this law has been clear enough without that alleged amendment promised and announced by the minister [[Intruder: Time.]] Justice. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53158	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53159	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, here we are listening to today's debates and it seems to me that the SDP Club has remained in that position. It means that this little mistake that was made by Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic when she agreed to be part of a procedure that is not legal in fact and is not something that should be replaced. We in the HDZ are talking about the beginning that and that we can't, like the kids in that game dots, say that we didn't see it and that it didn't happen and that now it's something that needs to be removed and said it's a great candidate again. Is this the task of us as representatives, should we actually do so so that the SDP Club would then be satisfied and be on the line with its president who, in my view, is more and more specific options, given the way he talks to all other people who don't think the same way he does and whether we can solve this problem that he created, not from us in HDZ, he didn't create from us. Tell us if we were in any part of what we were involved in in terms of HDZ policy when we were talking about the choice from the government itself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53160	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53161	I thank my colleague, Boric, namely the creation of a fama in Croatian society that by electing the president of the Republic, the president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will solve all problems in the Croatian judiciary. That's not true. The President of the Supreme Court is the first man of the judicial authority in Croatia, but the real changes in the Croatian judiciary lie on those who have been elected by the people. It is this assembly, its representatives, the government and the minister of justice. The role of the Supreme Court is important because the Supreme Court ultimately participates in the creation of case law in Croatia, the highest court case in Croatia, is the important work of the Supreme Court, and none of us is running away from it, but to establish and raise a hand for a candidate who has already broken one law in the beginning, and this is the Law on Courts for us in HDZ.../incomprehensible/... and we expect that the President of the Republic of Croatia, after the State Judicial Council has issued a new public invitation to establish a candidate so that they can decide on him. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53162	Thank you, Mr. Bacic, thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53163	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I rarely talk about judicial laws, laws concerning the judiciary itself, in essence, reports itself, but today I have decided to report to this Proposal for a decision on the election of the Supreme Court President, who was proposed by the President of the Republic of Croatia. My personal impression is that it all begins and all problems begin in 2018, the Law on Courts of Amendments and Supplements has created an obvious problem that we have not had before. And what happens then, the thinking that we've been participating in for 5 months now, everyone from their position, from their camp, and what we see in front of us is that we haven't solved the problem, obviously, the manifestations of the current clubs today show in the debate, but also the obvious vote on the Justice Committee that tomorrow we won't choose the candidate who was proposed to be the Supreme Court president. Now, what happened was 13.1. when we went into that procedure, i.e. When the DSV issued a public call, today we haven't solved anything with this date 24.6. It happened that those who praised the law in 2018, which is the head of the Office of Presidents Mr Orsat Milenić, then, quoted by counterpart Habian, can and repeat, means one of the most important things in the debate, certainly one of the best things that the law brings is to regulate the election of the Supreme Court president. We've been deficited so far, that's a great shift. And now that we have it in front of us, when we have a procedure that starts, and I think the head of the office can certainly suggest that something like that to his boss or president of the state, we're going into space for a few days after that story is reported, i.e. He shows up at his end, there in the middle of 2. I mean, when it becomes obvious that three candidates that are registered do not satisfy what the President of the Republic wants, the attack on that very law begins. And we have a statement by Mr. Milanovic saying that an unconstitutional law which is an auxiliary tool to disrupt the president of the state and we are fighting a battle in the public, in the media, in politics, that legality must be respected and we are doing it as politicians, even a fellow in an informal conversation outside told me, this is difficult to defend, from the SDP. This is hard to defend, but we'll try. Do we feel that position here today by the SDP? Yes, because everything that's important we put aside and we have a candidate because he's our president's candidate. Is that enough for us to be satisfied as a supreme, I don't know, legislative body in the Republic of Croatia? We claim that it is not enough and that the mistake that has been committed cannot be forgiven and said, we did not have it, it was, in ignorance and now we choose again from the same candidate we want to because in this way we will ensure everything that is put into public space as another thesis, the independence of the Croatian judiciary, we will have people who know everything, who no one can call on the phone, which no one affects, etc. .../incomprehensible/... What does that suggest? That all of these are obviously working the other way today. What is this relationship to, let's say, that greatest Supreme Court in the Republic of Croatia? What happened after that? We have a decision of the Constitutional Court, and 31.3. re-election of the DSV. Does that admit to a mistake made in the last step? I think so. All those who said that everything was legal, at that point fall, by me, by some logic and law even though I'm not a lawyer, but I think that when you went back to another story, that everything they were saying by then, it's not the same anymore. And that president is moving again again now through one, according to me, verbal squint towards anyone who thinks otherwise in preparing the ground until this debate where everyone should now say, it was all right and we now have a candidate and now we should settle it tomorrow at the vote. And everyone who isn't is for what I think it is. I think we're wrong and that what we're saying in front of the club or as individuals makes sense that tomorrow some new public call would end up being called by people who should go through and who should come here as a proposal in some kind of conversation, compromise and agreement on what we really want from those people who we're going to vote tomorrow to be at the head of such an institution as the Supreme Court. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53164	Thank you very much. One, two, three, three replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Crescent. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53165	Thank you. Dear colleague, today your colleague Bosnjakovic spoke, among other things in the media, and that it is not the same to run the department and be the president of the court because whoever runs the department knows no judicial procedures, etc. Does that mean HDZ wants a candidate who's mandatory from the judge's ranks? And do you think that in that sense, for example, Djuro Sessa 2017 was a better candidate because you voted very warmly for him then, as we recall. Given the negative picture, mildly put, in public that follows the action of today's President of the Supreme Court, Đura Sesse, simple question, are you proud of that 2017 assessment of yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53166	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53167	Thank you very much, colleague, for asking. I think we're clear, here we are, and my colleague Bačić and I and on behalf of the club Mr. Bosnjakovic have made it clear what we want. Whether this is your candidate or not, because now that we have someone that the president of the country practically brings by the hand here and says this is my candidate, it's okay, it can be his candidate, then, because it fits left politics and about... Is he then independent, is he the best, etc., no debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All others who are not in such a way are immediately HDZ judges, HDZ justice, etc. My perception of the Croatian system is quite different. I think it is, and I've said it many times, let's say that, it's my opinion that it's more under some other party's paw and that it shows certain situations. And what am I supposed to say now? That this judge and that judge are being tried politically? Of course I won't say that. But you say that a lot. When Mr. Sess was here, you had a chance to speak and everything you hate to tell him. In the end, here's the president said, he's not my candidate. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53168	Thank you, Mr. Boric. - Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you've done well in resuming this entire procedure that's been going on for the past few months. Tell me, do you think that President Milanovic, with his apriorship, will propose only Professor Djurdjevic as a candidate, has encouraged all other potential candidates to apply for a public call and that we therefore have this situation that we have because he has previously violated the whole procedure by law and do you think that the teacher is so independent, as stated by counterpart Peđa Grbin, when, even though a top professor and lawyer has agreed to be a candidate in a procedure where she did not apply for a public call as prescribed by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53170	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53171	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. As independent as she is, here, I don't know. How did she ever come in that first call, when it turns out we don't have candidates and Mrs. She became a presidential candidate, how did it happen, why she, why not someone else? I don't know if that information came out publicly, if anyone called you on the phone, like we don't know many events. That's what I see as an ordinary citizen. So, I don't know how that happened, but apparently someone's become a candidate somehow. I certainly didn't. I didn't get any calls from Pantovich. Is someone else, I don't know. And now we're talking about independence. He's about to be independent because I suggested you. If you're suggested by someone else, then you're not. These are our daily fights here, and we haven't really solved the problem. Five months have passed, and this beat nut will certainly not solve the problem until the end. And we're going to come back to the third procedure and I think it's clear to everyone now what needs to be done, especially those who are... As they say by the Constitution, suggest someone. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53172	Thank you. Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53173	Thank you very much, Vice President. I haven't been able to hear your whole debate. I'm a little late. I believe that you have also looked back on the quality of candidate Zlata Djurdjevic and I agree with you in part of your response to your colleague Raukar where you said that unfortunately we are not discussing which judge is best and which is quality, etc., but we are drawing attention to some other topics. Well, here's what I'd like to take the opportunity to ask you. What do you think about objectifying the criteria for selecting the judges Mrs Zlata Djurdjevic proposes since it is in her programme, and you want to discuss the quality of the proposed candidate? I urge you to state your opinion whether you are the same attitude as she in terms of the criteria for selecting judges, whether you should change that, would you accept such a change of criteria as your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53175	Thank you very much, colleague Ahmetovic. All those who say politics governs the Croatian judiciary today say that it would be good for the policy to appoint judges and you agree with it in the SDP and you are fine with it. Let's hear different stories. We say no to HDZ, and that's no longer right even though we keep talking about independence. So it's some kind of division or some kind of political perspective. When you come to the Supreme Court session, of the 33 judges you get one vote regardless of your profession and everything you are as a teacher, as head of the Department of Law Department, etc. You're just wondering where I am? Then you come to the Justice Committee, you don't get most of it. You're expecting the same thing in the Parliament. She's gone. What's more worth it now is the question now. Have you presented yourself properly throughout this process and why did you agree to be something that perhaps you shouldn't have done at that time? Maybe you should have waited and that's the question someone needs to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53176	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53177	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, how do you explain the fact and what message does the President of the Republic of Croatia send when of all the judges in the Republic of Croatia with a rich working experience, depending on the courts on which they work, he proposes a person who has not responded to a competition that has a really rich scientific and professional teaching experience and has a relationship with the court as an intern at the Municipal Court in Zagreb and as an intern at the County Court from 92 to 95 and has all his experience since then only at the university, and at the meeting of the Supreme Court to which the president of 33 judges should be present in secret voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53178	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53179	Thank you very much. My colleague Juričev, we have not said a single word about Mrs. Djurdjevic that she is not an expert or that she cannot answer or that she should not do so. Not once as long as he's trying to tell us that. The main objection is a grudge that has lasted for more than two and a half months, and it has agreed to be a candidate in a process that was not legal and that is clearly said by the Constitutional Court 14. It's your third decision. And no one can be suggested as it says in that decision without a public call going through, and that's where you fell. If you wanted to be, you had to know that before that. And when you agree, you have to carry that burden on yourself like any of us for every mistake in our lives. And now it realizes that we think she's unprofessional or that we think she's not good, it's quite politically directed on some other sides that are back in favour because of what their president suggested. And I say in an informal one-to-one conversation my colleague told me this can't be defended. It can't be defended in the first part when it's... And it's going on today. [[You don't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] He can't defend himself, but he's defending himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53180	No more replicas, Mr. Boric. Now it's Mr. Marian Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53181	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that President Zoran Milanovic did not come here today to explain his position and his candidate for Supreme Court President. It just shows how much the same respects this institution that we're in as the MPs. But let's get back to the subject. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states: “In the Republic of Croatia, the state authority is governed by the principle of the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters, and is limited by the Constitution of guaranteed law to local and regional self-government.” Article 118 says: “The judicial authority is exercised by courts. Fate power is independent and independent." Which implies that it must not be even ideologically colored. Is that the case with Zlata Djurdjevic? It's not. The candidate in question is ideologically colored. This was seen in her opinion on 113 pages where she constantly advocated non-delivery and did not hand over Perkovic and Mustac. This was also seen in her programme where the biggest problem of Croatian justice was seen in the early 1990s and the creation of the Croatian state, and she did not see it in the legacy of the communist system because a good part of the judges which was normal continued to operate from that system. And it is for us Croatian sovereigns, as our colleague has already said about the exponent of the left-liberal policy. In her programme she wrote independence to the judiciary is the value Croatia has yet to build. Will the judiciary be independent if Zlata Djurdjevic heads the Supreme Court, I'm afraid she won't. And unfortunately, she became a toy in the hands of President Zoran Milanovic, who I played the procedure myself and sought to reach my candidate in this way. Therefore, we will not support Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic at the vote tomorrow, but honestly neither will Zlata Djurdjevic suma sumarum change anything in the Croatian judiciary nor will Marko or Janko do it until we bring here laws that will bring and bring true reform to the Croatian judiciary. One person will not bring any new wind into the back of the entire judiciary that counts 1700 judges throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53182	Thank you, too. Mr. Zekanovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53183	Dear colleague Pavliček, here I want to hear your comment on the continued statement of views by the green-left block about candidate Zlata Djurdjevic as if she were exclusively an expert, here I will quote my colleague Bencic, she is characterized by the strength of knowledge, she is a character person, on the other hand she has always had a situation for people who are extremely ideologically colored to try to show us as people who have no ideology. Unlike when we from this aspect of spectrum try to show ourselves to me, we don't hide that we're ideologically colored and we don't have all the candidates we care about just because of ideology. But on their side whenever someone tries to place and set up a function, they always talk about knowledge, expertise, character, and there's really nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53184	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53185	I thank you, and that is the hypocrisy of individual representatives who think that if we are right-handed, we are ideologically screwed, and everyone else who is left is experts. But the action of individuals shows through their professional pathway whether someone is ideologically colored or not, as well as the case of candidate Zlata Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53186	And Mr. Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Pavliček, as you yourself said, will not vote for Zlata Djurdjevic tomorrow, and today we could hear from Mrs. Bencic and from the entire left side of the Croatian Parliament defending her. Of course that comes from these ideological foundations that they have for her and the sympathy that she has for her, but what matters is that the procedure has been played out here. She played by the president of the Republic of Croatia and that is exactly why we will not and will never support such candidates. And Mrs. Bencic, who today labels broad arms as some sort of attachment to certain political options, is not clear to her. It is not clear to her because they have just failed to comply with the procedure, and this was seen when they came to power in the City of Zagreb and without any competitions appointed the new administration of Zagreb Holding, and then here we have... Because if there's no procedure, then that's chaos, and that's you. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53188	You have a warning, Mr. litre you have a warning, you have a warning, it's not a topic. Pursuant to Article 238, you always have the same article as yourself. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, [[Intruder: colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53189	Don't piss us off, colleague Bencic, time will show how it will work, they've got citizens' support, I personally said things to her on good faith a few days ago about the city's administration's functioning to protect us because they obviously want to fight corruption most, but then respect these laws, these here and these procedures that the president of the Republic of Croatia just didn't respect, and don't push anything that simply doesn't comply with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53190	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Zekanovic's turn, while the cleaning room is just to remind you that at 13 o'clock is to take a stand and we'll stick to that time. Please, I can see you're in a hurry to speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53191	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we sovereigns have been clear and we will remain clear. So candidate Zlata Djurdjevic is not acceptable to us. But here I have to look back on the views of my colleagues and colleagues who come from the SDP from the Green-Left bloc on the future Prime Minister, you can think of Mrs. Bencic, who, when someone has a say. The one where someone has their own attitude, which is actually a feature of all the media that are very fond of them. So now the savior of the City of Zagreb Tomašević, he will, honey and milk will flow, honey and milk to the City of Zagreb, and soon the pension in Zagreb will be 1,000 times bigger, there will be a free tram, we will have a metro, and whatever Tomašević or Bencic does has one support of the media, and when Croatian sovereigns do something when they say their position, then, then they will have the same media as they say Then we've got chips, then we've got... [[Mr. Zekanovic, we stick to the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53192	We have a free speech after, so let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53193	Well, I'm a good talker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53194	No, it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53195	I'm talking about Zlata Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53196	But we stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53197	So when we make our point about Zlata Djurdjevic, about Zlata Djurdjevic, I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53198	I'm counting, I'm counting on time, you won't lose for a second, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53199	Can I go on? So we're talking about Zlata Djurdjevic and then we're called out by these same mainstream media who are attracted to this particular team and then we're stickers, chips, like this and like that. And what you should be then is whether you are the chips or the stickers of Peđi Grbin, and I think you are because here you are actually defending the SDP candidate's position because Milanovic remembers, don't forget he was the SDP's presidential candidate and therefore you're actually the SDP's stickers, and you've got a little wings, so you're a little overflighted, and now you think we're going to do this and that. But yes, yes. However, whenever little anyone who has had an objective view of what you are doing will realize that you are hypocrites, because you have dead-coldly agreed to play the procedure by your favourite Zoran Milanovic. So, dead-cold and then here in Parliament you even tried every possible way illegal, legal to justify what cannot be justified and then offer a candidate you have called character and firm knowledge etc. I don't want to go to ad hominem but I've had a good look at the Faculty of Law and I won't say it's bad, but I'll say it like this at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb there are 100 professors who should, by the logic of things, by knowledge and character, be in front of it, who even come from your part of the political spectrum. But she's the only candidate because she's loyal to your left-wing liberal option and that's what matters. But you know what's most interesting? When you call her from that side character, and solid knowledge, and unsuspecting, and the leader of the anti-corruption rebellion, then it becomes the mainstream. Then it becomes true to you. And then we who point out that it's an exponent of one policy are for corruption, and you're not saying that among these judges is the majority of judges who have re-installed the SDPs that you're glued to in one way or another. And finally, I'm going to point this out because I'm so happy because that's what we Sovereigns do, the Bridge isn't here. Here comes a colleague. He's not going to discuss this this way. He won't say his position. Here's the Homeland Movement, Bartulica said something so modest, so shy. So, you were the reason why I started dealing with politics and you're our... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you're our main political exhibit, and I'm going to do as long as I'm involved in politics so you don't get to be in a position of government whatever it is. So the more dissatisfied you are, the more politically satisfied I will be, or my voters, and you must keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53200	You have replicas. So please, please have a replica. ... I didn't tell you. [[Intruder Zekanovic:...not understood...]] You have replicas now and you will be able to respond to all the dilemmas that are placed now in this speech. Here you go. Who? Dark Taritash? ... Here you go, Mrs. Dark Taritash. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53201	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 of the Honorable Representative spoke about everything but the subject. So he talked about his position on some other political parties, about what's going on in the City of Zagreb and everything, but he didn't talk about the subject. We had this case of some other MPs, which the chairman then warned. The more he had, the more he had a ban on entering the Parliament, the more he had a colleague who had been banned from entering the Parliament for two days. So I'm just asking that we treat the MPs the same way when it happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53202	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Dark Tarritate, you're usually very careful, you're listening. You saw that I had warned and even had him for warning himself, there was a deal here that there was another 15 seconds he didn't take advantage of. I have to give you a warning because it was simply a replica and you made your point. And now not getting into the content of course I have to give you a warning because...... Mr. Zekanovic, do not participate in my debate [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't participate in my debate. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: No. I just expressed the satisfaction of your answer.]] You're taking part in the debate. Mr. Marijan Pavliček is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53203	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, yes, in 238, a colleague named Glavasevic threw himself out of the bench and said that only three voters had a colleague, Zekanovic. He had four and a half thousand preferential votes. ... /Intruder Zekanovic: Five,... /... [[You don't understand.]] So don't insult neither the distinguished colleague Zekanovic, nor his voters, because this shows more about yourself and your voters. Respect everyone who has come here because all of us have come here to be chosen by the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53204	Thank you very much. You know it's a warning, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now it's... Listen, Mr. Zekanovic, you're either taking part in the body's speech again, or with words in the debate you're not allowed to participate in, you'll get a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Glavasevic, please choose your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before the replica please really give me a warning, colleague Pavlichek is right. I mean, I respect the rule of law. I really did say that my colleague Zekanovic got yelled from the bench that he had three voters, and he had more than that is a fact. It's fair. Well, if you give me a warning, I'll be happy. And I just wanted to say, my colleague Zekanovic, I think I'm glad that you have such a fascination with us as a group in this House, and I'm especially glad that you recognized my colleague Bencic as future prime minister, because I also think that I said Sandra I would very much like to see it. So here I want you to have someone as fascinated as the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia supported us in the elections. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53206	Mr. Glavasevic, I am Mr. Pavlovich, no matter what you think about it, I gave the warning because he replicated it. And now you've replicated Mr. Pavlovich, not Mr. Zekanovic, so I have to give you a warning. Here's your rug. Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53207	So over five thousand, five thousand and 300 votes I've had preferential as I've now achieved a great result in local elections. So fascinated, so I can say that I'm fascinated but not by the good ones, but by the worse ones. So I'm fascinated by the amount of demagogy of an ideological obsession that comes from your side and I'm fascinated by one fantastic media support of your left-liberal option. So tomorrow you start to claim that the country is a flat plate I'm sure it would become a mainstream to bring it into the textbooks of geography tomorrow, geography in elementary and high schools, so that's what I'm fascinated by actually and horrified by.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53208	Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53209	Well, here's Mr. Zekanovic, you're right to tell you walking advertising, thank you for that contribution, although I must apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if it's true that you've started to deal with the policy that comes from their funds for your salary, and that when it's convenient to vote with the HDZ, support them locally, either here when they've lost their hands, and that's how citizens don't actually get what they might expect from you. But let's get back to the debate. I'd ask you this way if you would tell me two specific things that are Professor. Djurdjevic set out in the programme as a way of shortening the duration of court hearings and main debates and the length of cases in courts, which you would support or why you disagree with them. You can please give us at least 2 that's There in the program listed. [[Time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53210	Here's your answer. There are injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please welcome Mr Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53211	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly Article 238, my colleague Bencic once again labels the Club of Croatian Sovereignists as some sort of attachment and that we jump in to HDZ when we need to. No, Mrs. Bencic, we don't jump HDZ when we need to jump in when the procedure is to be followed, and that's what you don't do and that's what you proved in the City of Zagreb in your first week.../incomprehensible./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53212	Second, a second warning from past times before the exclusion no. Uh, here's this Mr. Pavlik's replica, now it's a replica. You have the answer to, you're right, when you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right. [[Intruder: No, I have no response to the replica of my colleague Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53213	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bencic, don't flatter yourself because I said that because of people like you, not because of you specifically, I entered politics at a time when Zoran Milanovic was the current prime minister and at the time, I said that in a debate in front of the club within the patriotic coalition we tried and managed to overthrow Zoran Milanovic, who is your favorite. So that's what this is about. And as for the specific things here, I really don't have the materials here, I can't read, here.../incomprehensible/... but I'll repeat what you didn't like, I'll make another award-winning little comparison between the American election for members of the Supreme Court and Croatia. So these are key places that politically determine the direction of a country and therefore, that is why Zlata Djurdjevic must not be in that place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53214	Mr. Pavlovichk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53215	Dear colleague Zekanovic, here's a simple question. Is it normal for a candidate for the leading position in the Croatian judiciary to allow the Supreme Court to be a toy in the hands of the president of the Republic of Croatia and does not respect the procedures prescribed by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53216	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53217	Dear colleague Pavliček, if we are to ignore its particularly ideological colour and if we are to ignore that it is an exponent of one policy, the extremely clear exponent of one green-left neoliberal policy, then we are actually coming to this extremely big problem, and that is that the person who should be more likely to fight corruption tomorrow is the person who has violated all possible procedures. So he made a precedent in electing a Supreme Court president who had never been made before. So that's why she's unacceptable because she doesn't respect the procedure. She will fight corruption and employment without competition, and she wanted to get a job or come to this function without competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53218	Mrs Ahmetovic suffered a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53219	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, namely, here are constantly brought up by both Mr Zekanovic and all of his party colleagues who ask him questions. So Zlata Djurdjevic did not, did not violate the procedure, you, if you need to discuss Zoran Milanovic and insinuate that the infringement procedure is not involved in this lying and misleading Croatian public. Zlata Djurdjevic did not violate the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53220	Thank you very much, there was a replica, a reminder, and please clean up the pay phone now, no it wasn't a replica, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53221	What was that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53222	You are free Zekanovic, you are free Mr. Zekanovic We need to clean up for free speech, please. [[Intruder: Too bad.]] Let's move on, as Mr. Bauk announced, with the debate, let's just wait to see this, here it is, Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash is up. And otherwise, Mr. Bauk, being a moron isn't even a scientific term. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53224	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues after Mr. Bauk announced the debate, yes, yes, he announced a good team now I just don't know what the team is for For the party or something else, but let's get back to the debate. [[Intruder: Please.]] So this week, we will not have the elected President or President of the Supreme Court, and that is clear to all of us whether it has already been discussed in public space since March, and in March it was already after the prime minister said he could not accept Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic. And today through the debate, what can we conclude? We can conclude the following, the résumé is not disputed, the expertise is not disputed, in the procedure the candidate responded to the competition that was. So, no matter what the mud throwers, and everything else is not controversial. So what's the issue? Must be a program. Let's talk about the program. One of the certainly shiny red rags is the assessment that the state of justice is the result of the 1990s devastation. Can we all agree on that? We can because it seems that 30 years later, however, is one of the general places that every reasonable person in Croatia agrees with, which is that the devastation of the judiciary was created in the '90s and an attempt to deny anyone it is actually an attempt to recognise and find a solution is the constant concreteisation of Croatia among the more undeveloped countries. When someone evaluates us, we should always watch how someone else evaluates us, not how we judge ourselves, then the judiciary is one of the cancer wounds in Croatia. So investors who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia when they say obstacles are one of the most important and important obstacles is the judiciary. And what do we do to change that? Nothing at all. Even more so today, we are discussing the President or the President of the Supreme Court, knowing that we, or the President, will not choose. And in advance the rulings said they wouldn't choose and the ruling say she's a professional, a college teacher all right, but she made a mistake, she made a mistake in the procedure. Even though we're not discussing today. We are discussing today that Mrs. Djurdjevic has applied, submitted everything she has and today we are talking about it. But it doesn't matter. By the way, Professor Djurdjevic is in his programme, so let's just say a little bit about the programme, she said that the election procedure with us is closed and non-transparent without any responsibility. So what did she say was wrong? This is also confirmed by serious European research in which Croatia is the worst in the EU in terms of the trust of the judges themselves in their own judiciary. So, when asked the judges themselves in the Republic of Croatia what confidence they have in their own judiciary, a huge number of them believe that judges are named and progressing towards unrecognizable criteria, and therefore they already know that birds on the branch. It is obvious that a scandal when such a thing is written by a candidate for Supreme Court President, and an even greater scandal is when and what dares to offer its own solutions. And now after the debate that will be today all day, what message can we send? If you hear from a candidate who's an expert, if you hear from a candidate who's also known for his opinions, his views, if you hear from a candidate who's a university professor, let's do everything we can to make him look bad, say he's not good, drag him through the mud for the last three, four months, and finally say we won't vote for it. So what's the message? Leave all hope. Get out of Croatia and you who can still leave. Because if, for example, someone dares to appear in a competition for the director of an agency, and he has not previously agreed with the rulings to abandon hope, for at least 122 reasons why he cannot do so will be found. Maybe one of those reasons he picked up the day it rained and didn't wear an umbrella? We can go that far. Well, that's it. The situation in the judiciary is alarming. What do we do to change this situation to justice? Nothing at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53225	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53226	Thank you. I will try in this individual debate now what some things have been said to explain and actually demystify, especially the thesis that came from HDZ but also one of the the thesiss here that I will start with is the the thesis that the representatives of the Homeland Movement have cited. So, as something you resented Professor Zlati Djurdjevic, you stated that in her programme, she stated that most of the problems in the judiciary had a source in the '90s, and did not indicate that these problems were from the period of socialism. So, if you were at the hearing where she was just explaining it, she said that of course she didn't even analyse the previous period in which the independent judiciary was neither there nor could be talked about the trio of the authorities because it wasn't there. So she's been talking about the Croatian justice system since the '90s in here since we have at least formally independent judiciary and the trio of authorities, and so she explained, which I think is very reasonable. Furthermore, we are constantly listening to the thesis of breaking the law by HDZ that it has violated the procedure. Here's what I'm going to tell you, so what you really blame Professor Djurdjevic for is her legal attitude and legal opinion. If you choose or do not choose someone based on a legal opinion set out in a particular procedure on a particular procedure, then you are unable to choose by objective and professional criteria. Because the moment Professor Djurdjevic accepted being a candidate, she did not choose procedure. And let me just say that the entire legal community including the Constitutional Court on this issue has been fairly divided whether the law can limit the power of the president or not, whether he can only choose from candidates who have passed the legal procedure or not. I'll remind you that the Constitutional Court's decision was taken by 9 to 4. So four constitutional judges had a different view and expressed it in a separate opinion. So you can't say that at that point until there was a decision of the Constitutional Court that was clear as Mr Bacic is saying, because clearly there was no because, in his judgment, the Constitutional Court made it clear that it was not, that certain provisions were not clear, that there was a need to interpret them and that there was certainly a reason why in such different ways they were actually interpreting those provisions. I can specifically tell you about the citizens just to know what it says in that provision of the law, therefore, it says: "that the election process of the Supreme Court president is being initiated by the State Judiciary Council by publication of a public call." Then, “to make a public call public in the National Journal. ” What do the candidates have to take? "The CV and the work programme and that the applications received by candidates are delivered by the State Judicial Council to the Office of the President of the Republic, who will request an opinion on candidates from the General Session of the Supreme Court and the Competent Committee of the Croatian Parliament." What happens later, the law doesn't prescribe. What if none of the candidates, in what way is the motion procedure, don't say anything. So the fact that Professor Djurdjevic accepted the candidacy at the time or had a certain legal opinion does not speak at all about illegality. After all, she's committed something illegal, is there a sanction? Is someone going to sue her? Did she do something wrong? Well, don't say that she did something illegal then. So we can't do that. What I wanted to say was the thesis by which, once again, your representative brought out here from HDZ, which is that she does not have enough standing in the judiciary, as if it were relevant for the position of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. So, Professor Ksenija Turkovic, from the Department of Criminal Law, could be a member of the European Law for Human Rights and Judge of that Court, my Professor Rodin, who is now the judge of the European Court of Justice, Professor Derencinović, who will be the judge of the European Court of Human Rights instead of Ksenija Turkovic, who has expired his mandate, so they can be judges of the highest courts of the Council of Europe and of the European Union, but cannot be presidents of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, so what is this argument? And I'll say one more thing, so that the citizens know what Professor Djurdjevic suggested, I will single out only what Mr. Zekanovic couldn't single out, so that he will encourage the practice and application of the law in a way that the debates in court can be debated in advance in a thorough manner so that there won't be a delay in the hearing. [[Thank you, we have, we have...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53227	We have two replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53228	Thank you, Chairman, here's my colleague Bencic, I'd like to ask you not to tell us from the Homeland Movement what we should and how we should be doing. We don't have to think the same as you, and we don't think the same as you, and as far as Mrs. Djurdjevic is concerned, it's enough for me if you're in favour of, that I'm against, I don't need to know anything else about her, and as far as the internship is concerned, it's very important to everyone in life what's going on, and so is this. You know, it's not God's day for her to be because you're suggesting it, so here's why I'm gonna be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53229	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53230	I can only say, reset my case, that's exactly what I was talking about, which is, which is that counter credit that Professor Djurdjevic gave all of us here that we are capable as politicians to choose on the basis of objective and professional criteria, you with your sentence now have confirmed that you are not, because if I vote for, you will vote against whatever it is, so if I eat stew, you will not eat. This is an opportunity for you, and you have now proven that you are not capable, competent or have the integrity to perform the function of a parliamentary representative in this part in which it is necessary to elect the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53231	Dear Representative Spajic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53232	Article 238 was injured, so Mrs Bencic was not there to decide whether I was able to be a parliamentary representative or not. [[Sandra Bencic: I can state the position./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53233	Let's not, no, we won't talk that way. I judge that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed, but I pray that they no longer exchange their views in this way. The Republic has a respected representative, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Bencic. So here and now we have seen that this whole debate has actually been quite so much in the shadow of the accusation that Mrs. Djurdjevic is in some way ideologically profiled. And it's saddening that there are colleagues and colleagues who, from this perspective instead of from this perspective of expertise and ability, value them, but aside and now, so, in your opinion, whether there are criteria in such accusations, I'd say I'd call them accusations, or grades, here we are more neutral, in grades. Do you find the elements of any ideological positioning or determination of this candidate in any part of the political or value spectrum?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53235	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53236	Thank you. That's what my teacher used to say at the hearing herself. I will just say, therefore, that in the application of the Law and the Constitution at the level of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, it is a completely different matter when the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. Therefore, the judges of the Constitutional Court are not part of regular courts and regular courts and that part of the judicial authority which is independent of politics. We also choose them here in the Assembly and so do those who, through the application of the Constitution, which is not exclusively legal but also political, represent a political consensus, so on the value, interpretation and application of the Constitution in a way that is different from that which requires the application of the law in regular proceedings before courts and, for example, when today, the Supreme Court of the United States of America, the Supreme Court of the United States of America, has that function of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, because they do not have the Constitutional Court. The Supreme Court applies the Constitution to them, as the Constitutional Court does to us. He interprets the Constitution. The Supreme Court implements positive laws and regulations [[Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53237	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go. Thank you, Comrade Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53238	Yeah, I thought you stood up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53239	Look, if the President of the Republic had come to explain the proposal and if the President of the Parliament had spoken on behalf of the HDZ Club, it would have been a spectacle, this way we have a debate that is not at the level of public polemics, which we have had about this point, and it's hard for us to fully mate at that level, but I'll try. Therefore, one directly elected body, the President of the Republic and the other directly elected body of the Croatian Parliament, must coordinate their political decision in order to elect the President of the Supreme Court in accordance with the Constitution. So, two political decisions need to be harmonised and those bodies that actually belong to the opposite political options, or at least they have been proposed by the opposite political options, as President Milanovic described it nicely on the day of the election, so-called. Hard cohabitation. Therefore, while hard co-habitation will be the chair of the Supreme Court president. When that cohabitation becomes somewhat softer, there's a certain chance that the President of the Court will choose, and that's the case. So that's a deal two, that's a double, that's a political arrangement squared, and we're not even up to that level yet. Mrs. Djurdjevic's biggest compliment is that HDZ is against her, I think it is, even more strengthening in my position to support this proposal by the President of the Republic, even if it has been exposed to criticism by counterpart Bencic about integrity. I would support it without HDZ being against it, but this simply, when I press this green will be even more enthusiastic, however, the fact is that the Supreme Court president will not be elected in this term unless the HDZ is there for him. And I doubt the President of the Republic will propose such a candidate for whom the HDZ will be and we will be against it. It seems to me that this will not happen at least knowing the President of the Republic and knowing the president of the HDZ and of course their current relations. And that's it. So there's no Supreme Court president while cohabitation is hard, even rhymes a little. Secondly, this law that has been passed is not unconstitutional as the Constitutional Court has said, but it is lifeless because the President of the Supreme Court will not be elected by it. Why? Because it would have to be staged, and I doubt that in these relations the President of the Republic will agree to participate in a staged competition with the Prime Minister. It just seems impossible. That is why it is my suggestion to the Government and the parliamentary majority and the Ministry of Justice if they want to insist on this publicly called fundamentalism or competition fundamentalism that for all possible things and what they need and those who do not need to call a tender where in most cases the result is known in advance, at least to write the law of the President of the Republic before the proposal can be called public. But the fact is that without a political agreement between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, namely the president of the HDZ, in this case as a party that has the largest number of representatives of the Supreme Court will not be elected. And then we will have this instant solution where either the annual work schedule or the new legislative changes that have also been announced try to bridge this period of hard cohabitation. Of course, it's another constitutional-legal gymnastics. I deeply believe that the law, which was part of the law that was proposed and adopted two thousandths, and it seems to me that the eighteenth year had a good intention, but by that choice it will not be. In fact, the law here was needed to elaborate constitutional provisions. But this one doesn't decompose them, this one decomposes them. So he sort of propagates, or predicts the possibility of reaching a political agreement because it should take a long time, it should involve a number of people, there should be a public call, and a secret agreement and a public call does not go. And now that they will agree on the way here I propose this because this second one, by the principle of Mr. Spajic, will not say I will because Milanovic proposed it. Or Milanovic will say I won't because he likes Plenkovic. This so simple way of functioning will not lead us to the result that we have the President of the Supreme Court elected in the Constitution and the law prescribed way. And in the end, it is actually becoming groundless to discuss the quality or non-quality of Mrs. Djurdjevic, because when the system is wrongly placed and the best candidate can get the most criticism, and the criticisms Mrs. Djurdjevic receives in my opinion are completely unfounded. But about that in replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53240	We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53241	Thank you. My colleague seems to be when today several times our colleagues and HDZ spoke of it not being a problem, that they are not concerned that Professor Djurdjevic is the candidate of the president because every candidate will be the candidate of the president, that in fact what was there is the subtext is, of course formally going to propose the President of the Republic but the problem is if it is not the one for which we gave him the green light in advance. And that's the problem here. The problem is that it does not participate in the agreed economy or in the agreed judiciary that you have set up, it is a problem and it will be a problem with any candidate or candidate. So I don't know let's just agree that everything always picks HDZ, all those functions on the judiciary suggest they so we don't have that problem anymore. Because like this, we'll end up in a crisis situation where we won't have another three years president of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53242	Thank you very much. Since it was a comment from my colleague, Bauk may say something or not. Please, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53243	Of course. This argument reminds me of why Mrs. Djurdjevic could not have been the mayor of Zagreb, because it was confirmed by President Tudjman. And then here he was, he was like this, and it's no big deal that he's from HSLS. Then came Drazen Budisha, then he wasn't good either. Then Jozo Radosh came, and he wasn't good either. Well, Ivo Scrabble wasn't good either. And then it was seen that there was a systemic problem. So I am fully convinced that HDZ will not support anyone proposed by the President of the Republic, and I am slightly less convinced that the President of the Republic will support someone who would support HDZ for this topic, because it would share responsibility. Therefore, I doubt that in this term we will elect the President of the Supreme Court to say President Tudjman in these and such circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53244	The next replica of the respected MPs, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53245	Thank you very much. I'll continue under those circumstances. So today we're discussing something that we all know will settle with nothing, we're not going to elect a Supreme Court president, or a Supreme Court president. Not that we've been discussing the Parliament today, somewhere in March as a public space. I don't know how many times everyone has already said what they think, how they think, how they're going to vote, won't vote, what they're going to vote on. And actually, the thing is very simple. It is necessary to find a person in the Republic of Croatia who has professional criteria that it can be, which can be acceptable to the president of the state, who can be acceptable to the Prime Minister and still be prepared to enter the procedure and run. So we all know that no one wants to roll it in the mud, because we've all mentioned the name and name of a respected law school teacher a couple of times and rolled it in the mud for the last three, four months.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53246	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53247	The person who is acceptable to the government and who is acceptable to the president of the state is Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic, because that Zlata Djurdjevic is not acceptable to the government, she is an international court. So this is about something obvious to another, which is that some criteria are worth when proposed outside, and other criteria apply when proposed inside. It's not the first time, so we're witnessing this behavior at least part of the HDZ, and that's what they're doing now, and now they've decided to apply it to this. My colleague, Boric, told me that I am mistaken that the President of the Supreme Court will not be elected in this session. We're still three years old, so we'll see if I'm right or you're right. In the next year and a half you have a better chance of being right, and after that I'll probably be right, because if, what we're gonna do next time, then third time, this second public call and third public call, then the fourth public call, so that's what, public calls will be our routine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53248	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53249	Well, well-respected colleague Bauk. You have well written down the insanity and leniency of our system, especially in this matter and mentioned this hard cohabitation, and I would even expand what you said, even if that cohabitation was a little softer and a few MPs from the ruling majority supported this choice, I'm not sure if we would have enough hands to re-elected the Supreme Court president.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53250	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53251	I'd say that this is the last episode today, the last one will be at the vote tomorrow, the first season of the jazz and sniffer series, as they called each other in this debate. And I guess the reduction in the hardness of that cohabitation would probably have reduced the badger into beaver, and the sniffer into the foothill, so it would have been less, no, therefore, that it was here that we simply came to the situation that a person A would not want someone because a person B proposed it. Therefore, the Prime Minister would not propose it to Mrs. Djurdjevic because Milanovic himself proposed it, although Plenkovic himself suggested Mrs. Djurdjevic for an international institution. So that's where we come up with a kind of acute public action on this subject, and obviously we need a little passion to calm down. If he'll calm down, we'll see, I'm not an optimist, but possibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53252	Thank you. The next replica of respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53253	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Bauk's. Today, we have determined that the president of the state is proposing, and that the Assembly votes the President of the Supreme Court. We have also determined that the ruling majority will never agree on this proposal by Zlata Djurdjevic. We also heard various reasons for this, completely unfounded, we heard everything and everything, mostly the debate was on President Milanovic, on communism, on socialism and on topics that had nothing to do with candidate Zlata Djurdjevic. My question to you, do you understand me when I say that I'm ashamed that I've been involved for almost eight hours today and I'm participating in a debate on what we're going to know the outcome of today. So this is a barren debate, we spent an average of 500 kuna each Croatian taxpayer, 500 kuna per head, figure out how much it amounts to. [[attack by Željko Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53254	Thank you, Representative Bauk will respond, thank you, colleague Ahmetovic, please. Let's stick to Rules of Procedure and time. So I won't give you any warning about it, but behave accordingly to your role I'm acting, so you'll get a warning now. [[Intruder Mirela Ahmetovic: You too.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53255	I understand that sometimes participation in the work of the Croatian Parliament can cause the shame of certain representatives, but I do not think you should be ashamed of participating in this debate because your representatives, or my parties, have not caused anything to us to be ashamed. That's one, two, I need to fix you up. Here is the ruling majority, there is no single position, nor does the opposition have a unique position, part of the parliament members, part of the opposition club MPs will not support this candidate because Zoran Milanovic proposed it. And part of the ruling majority will support the candidate because Zoran Milanovic proposed it, so it's actually my impression that tomorrow's vote will be more of a vote on Zoran Milanovic than Zlata Djurdjevic and of course, I think most of them here, all who are sitting now agree with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53256	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are in a situation that is not good for Croatia. The conflict between the prime minister and the president of the Republic breaks over the back of the Supreme Court. An institution that makes up one of the pillars of our still young democracy. In other words, it breaks over the back of our citizens and citizens. In a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, counterpart Bosnjakovic said the party wants a candidate and candidate, or candidates who have a programme, expertise and vision. And they don't dispute that the candidate we're discussing today has it. As an argument for the vote against her, it cited the acceptance of President Milanovic's nomination, although it did not answer a public call. Honestly, colleagues and colleagues, it's just a Pharisee, the procedure wasn't clear enough, the space for different interpretations existed, it was wide open, the Constitutional Court said. That is why, among other things, the prime minister was able to establish a body far from the eyes of the public and by unknown criteria, assessing candidates and candidates in his own way. If Zoran Milanovic had proposed to HDZ in the same way, I really don't think that we would be having this debate today and that's actually the real and true reason HDZ doesn't want to accept Zlata Djurdjevic, because it's not theirs. The sovereigns won't accept it because they're perceiving it as a left, but at least they're honest about it, which is in the window, it's in the shop, so to speak. But it's not like that with colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. In his discussion, Vrkljan said a sentence that may be surprising, but I agree, it is an extremely strange situation that HDZ has not said anything negative about Zlata Djurdjevic in any way, yet it will not support it. A colleague, Vrkljan, is not a linguist, but a dictionary, but a doctor is sorry, but rightly, by some intuitive analysis of the discourses, he detected that the real reasons for this candidate's refusal of HDZ lies elsewhere. counterpart Bencic spoke about the closeness of some of Croatia's top court officials with senior HDZ officials. It's just one example of what our country's citizens and citizens don't trust in our judiciary. Which is why the corruption perception index is so high, which is why trust in institutions is low, which is why, among other things, so many of our people are running away with their heads regardless of their homeland. I don't think HDZ is alone and the only one responsible for all of this, but it's undoubtedly the biggest one in front of all the others who have some part of the guilt. When citizens and citizens look at and listen to everything that HDZ colleagues and colleagues have done about the election of the president, i.e. the President of the Supreme Court, they see more than anything else in a series of marifettelus and its presidents in an attempt to keep the grip on the throat of the rule of law in Croatia. That's that HDZ butik of democracy. I told you yesterday, colleagues and colleagues, I'll tell you today, just keep going. You are working for the benefit of your damage, which is actually for the benefit of Croatia. You're a little like Mephistofeles from Goeta Faust, except Mephistofeses still has fewer indictments than HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53258	We have one replica. Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53259	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Here's listening to fellow Glavasevic your debate fully agree with you, but here I would put one point on the I. That people who are looking for reasons find the reasons and when the reasons for it don't exist, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53260	Well, I could...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53261	Comrade Glavasevic, take it easy, take it easy. Calm down, slowly, so I'll give you my word, and then you'll talk further. Here you go, buddy Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, thank you for the replica of my colleague Nikolic. I might call it a point on in, specifically, but you know what they say, who won't find a reason, it wants to find an excuse, or whatever, I think even the other way around. Anyway, I don't know how this is going to end, that's what I'm really worried about, and a lot more than this imaginary leap we sometimes use in these discussions. We could really find ourselves in a serious problem, that body is important to us, that body is one of the pillars of democracy and one of its fuses, and in a situation where the trust of citizens in institutions is violated as it is, the additional weakness of that institution, I'm afraid it can lead us into very dangerous waters. So I'd like to find a solution to this situation after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53263	The next individual debate, MPs Mirela Ahmetovic will be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53264	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Professor, Dr Zlata Djurdjevic will not be confirmed as president of the Supreme Court in the Croatian Parliament. If it were to be chosen exclusively by quality, by expertise, it would certainly be chosen by independence and knowledge, but it will not be so because Andrej Plenkovic, under Vladimir Seks's supervision and with the support of the HDZ majority, decided. For three months now, the orchestrated and well-studden operation of HDZ spin doctors has taken place, to ensure that Zlata Djurdjevic is discredited as a legal expert, unfortunately as a person. What's the reason for that? The reason for this is not in fictitious structures and bad interpretations that were placed in public by HDZ members and their supporters, the reason is only one. As Zlata Djurdjevic is a person with an impressive career, outstanding legal knowledge and that she is independent of any political influence, and this very political influence on the judiciary of the bewitched judiciary, as Zlata Djurdjevic himself calls it, and the absolute untouchability of Seks' godmothers has led to the collapse of a judicial system in which hardened criminals and murderers receive a delay in serving prison sentences, to a sudden, in which cases that do not go to the hands of rulings etc. What's HDZ doing then? He turns the saw upside down by a well-stucked recipe and argues that in his programme Zlata Djurdjevic advocates a greater influence of justice policy. At the same time, Seks's best man and Constitutional Court president, Miroslav Šeparovic, hangs out with specialties with the most visible people of the HDZ Assembly Club who are once in Sanader's time, looking at miracles suspected of participating in criminal acts, stealing money, for which HDZ has been illegally convicted twice, and the end of that trial, behold, again miracles, we have been waiting for a decade. There is another fundamental untrue that HDZ tried to discredit Zlata Djurdjevic. It's being looked at in her so-called. Agitating for the socialist order, because she's telling God that all the evil of the judiciary was created in the '90s, and that in socialism was good. It's not true, Zlata Djurdjevic didn't say it anywhere. On the contrary, she said that the judiciary is dependent on the inside, bewitched and therefore needs to be changed, the judge cannot be independent if he is imposed on by a binding legal opinion of his colleagues, which is a relic of the socialist system, and that is precisely proof that Professor Djurdjevic did not defend the socialist justice system, on the contrary. And that the 1990s judiciary was thoroughly destroyed tells us the example of Vladimir Primorac, an honorary judge who was both in Yugoslavia and Croatia, but because of his incompetence and moral principles in both regimes, he was forced to leave the judicial post. He's a professor. Djurdjevic mentioned it in his programme. By the way, Vladimir Primorac was insecure in the Yugoslav regime, as a judge of the investigation, freed the government of Gotovina, a Croatian springman. How is it possible that Zlata Djurdjevic wants to affirm the socialist time if he calls for a man who in socialist time had to leave the judicial post and who freed him on the basis of the right of a person with whom he will later act politically in free Croatia. Prof. During the three months, Djurdjevic has done more for the Croatian judiciary than any of HDZ's judicial advisers. I will vote for it with pride and knowledge that there are still people in Croatia who are willing to put their professional and personal integrity in the service of the general good. That knowledge makes it kind of easier for me, because I know that there are still people that individuals and groups in politics haven't bought, disarmed and then thrown away like old rags that happen to every chip. Yes, Zlata Djurdjevic is my choice and I will support her with full responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53265	We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53266	Dear Representative Ahmetovic, I must say publicly at this point that of all MPs, somehow I appreciate you and I personally sympathise you, so don't blame me, but this time I have to point out one other argument. I think Zlati Djurdjevic was the most damaged by Zoran Milanovic and all those who insist on her independence, and in fact it is because she personally chose Zoran Milanovic in a different context than the other candidates. For example, on this public call, one of the candidates was Judge Peta Kujundzic. With what right do we prejudge that it would be dependent or that it is slightly less independent than Zlata Djurdjevic or slightly less professional, without talking about candidates who made the first public call. There are lawyers among them. Why do we think or on the basis of which information we give ourselves the right to claim that these people do not have enough expertise, that they do not have enough knowledge, integrity. So we created the problem of Zlati Djurdjevic and thus the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53267	Thank you very much. Please, let's stick to time! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53268	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Oreshkovic here is not about any other candidate, but about a candidate who was perfectly legal and legitimately proposed by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. And that's why I here look absolutely, exclusively at that candidate, at her qualities. The independence of Zlata Djurdjevic is spoken of by her works, not by Mirela Ahmetovic or Dalia Oreshkovic or anyone else. I will remind you of her views which were neither in line with the proposal, her personal proposal to Zoran Milanovic, and were neither in line with the numerous citizens of the Republic of Croatia or perhaps members of the professional academic community. However, its arguments were based on its professional and scientific integrity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53269	The next replica is the respected MPs Opačak-Bilić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53270	Dear counterpart Ahmetovic, we agree that a stable society needs a stable judiciary. A lot of facts have already been made today about the role of the Supreme Court and the importance of its functioning, and what we all expect is actually efficiency, accountability and independence. I would ask you to answer me, given that neither the general session of the Supreme Court has given any positive opinion, nor any candidate has received majority support from any of the members, and that we will probably not have a new president or Supreme Court president elected tomorrow if you believe that the Croatian judiciary and the judiciary will be in crisis, i.e. that this is going to be a constitutional crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53271	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53272	In accordance with my knowledge of justice and in accordance with my personal impression, I can answer you that our judiciary is already in crisis. In the moments when you kill and criminals walk freely, when they are delayed serving a prison sentence, when political figures from the highest circles of government are hanging out with judges in very informal environments, when judges drink and eat with the people they're taking action against, can we agree that our judiciary is already in crisis? So, we do not have to wait for the outcome of this procedure to determine it, and certainly it is a problematic fact that there is no way out of this situation where, due to the disagreement between Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and President Zoran Milanovic, we cannot choose the President of the Supreme Court. It's more than a constitutional crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53273	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, I believe that you have had a phenomenal triage of the situation and in your debate and here in response to colleague Opačak-Bilić. So it seems to me that there is actually one reason why we are in this blockade not only now this dispute between the prime minister and the president, but I believe that there really is a huge amount of fear that would actually happen if the control that currently exists over the judiciary, which is HDZ's control after all. If even for that one place that's been said so many times in this debate, what can change that one place? So even if one place changed how much fear on the other hand must have been about the consequences of such a change. So I think you've made a very good triage and especially about the assessment that our judiciary is already in crisis. When people cross the border even though fugitives are wanted, I think we've seen everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53275	Thank you. It was a comment, but counterpart Ahmetovic can answer something if he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53276	Thank you very much, fellow Glavasevic. I thank you, but I'd take advantage of the opportunity and I'd like to point out another problem. In the candidate's programme, the only legal and legitimate candidate today that we can discuss since she and the only one proposed by the president who has been invited to propose we have actually seen very measurable, very measurable objective proposals to improve the judicial system. No one here, at least from what I hear, has challenged these very proposals. Therefore, there are simple reasons to be asked, that is to say, to construct notorous untruths, to be manipulated, to be deceived about the fact that Zlata Djurdjevic has actually violated some procedure. Zlata Djurdjevic did not even participate in the procedure until the second session of calls where she is a completely legal candidate, otherwise we would not be discussing her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53277	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53278	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a choice that I think is very clear. To sum up, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is foreseen that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may be elected by a person who fulfils the general and special conditions for the judge of that court and that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is elected by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Everyone is to stick to the Constitution and rights and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Candidate Zlati Djurdjevic resents that she has no experience in courts, although she meets all the criteria with a respectable international career, she is a great expert in criminal and procedural law which is of great importance because our Croatian judiciary is in chaos and needs a person at the helm who will have enough courage and will root out corruption. And what's most important is to introduce order. On several occasions, the candidate pointed out that politics should finally show that it can also decide on the criteria of expertise and integrity, not on the basis of similarity criteria, and choose an independent person at the head of the judicial authority. Therefore, if Zlata Djurdjevic is prevented from electing the President of the Supreme Court as an independent and professional person with all the necessary qualifications in which the charges for disqualifying her are made up for days, even at the cost of causing a constitutional crisis in the judicial branch of the government, this can be interpreted and perceived as preventing the closure of the shares through which politics outside the public video circle influences the judiciary. On the one hand, the President of the Supreme Court gives democratic legitimacy to the judicial authority, but on the other hand, it is a link between the judiciary and politics. It is therefore the key to the rule of law in democracy, to select an independent person in place. Politics must remove the Stigma to influence the judiciary and now we have a chance to do so. And in the end, I would conclude and repeat it again. While Croatia continues to be perceived by one of the EU's most corrupt countries, we are today dealing with the fact that the biggest critic of Zlata Djurdjevic is that she has agreed to be the candidate of the president of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53279	We've got one replica of the esteemed MP, Opačak-Bilić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53280	Dear colleague Nikolic, you mentioned the need to introduce order. Knowing that the Republic of Croatia is a state in the EU with the highest number of judges per population, i.e. that we have nearly 50 judges per 100,000 people while the average is about 25, and still the pain of our judiciary is the long-term nature of the proceedings. We are all witnessing that certain procedures take decades and that many more injustices are being solved, are being corrected in the Strasbourg court, and ultimately all of these are being paid by Croatian citizens. In Austria, for example, the average conduct of the procedure is one year to three years, and Croatia cannot achieve this even though there are almost twice as many judges per capita as the average of other countries. In fact, it is another thing that Mrs. Djurdjevic mentioned in her program and calls for change. And I'm actually glad that you mentioned the need to introduce order yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53281	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53282	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Opaque-Bilić. You presented it nicely and showed what chaos we have in the judiciary. And it's clear a few times today we've pointed out that one person can't go overnight and change the kind of chaos we have in the judiciary. But what we can decide with her choice is that she is the person who will be the wheel and the change we are actually seeking and what Croatia needs, or the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53283	The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53284	My colleagues, my MPs and my MPs. I'm going to try plastically with as few professional terms as possible to explain why we're in a situation like this today. Because at one point after the new provisions of the Law on Courts that prescribe a slightly different procedure for selecting the President of the Supreme Court, President Zoran Milanovic said that I have my candidate, or candidate Zlata Djurdjevic, and you have conducted a tender, i.e. a public call or not, I will do it my way. If we are talking about the constitutional crisis, then it stems from haughtiness, irresponsibility and political ego above all, Zoran Milanovic, and then many others came to his well-designed plan. When we were making amendments to the Law on Courts, we did so on the recommendation of GRECO of the International Council of Europe, which numbers 50 Member States in whose composition are the most prominent experts implementing the revision of the internal systems of Member States with particular emphasis on anti-corruption policies and measures. The first evaluation cycle for the Republic of Croatia began in 2002. The Court Act has been amended on the basis of recommendations from the four evaluation cycles, and I will now look back at what is said in the second order of the report on how we implement or accept these recommendations made by GRECO. In the previous 3 cycles in 1, in 2, in 3 when talking first about the independence of the judiciary then about the public administration, 3 about how criminal provisions define individual incriminations and how the political parties of the Republic of Croatia are financed had almost 100% success in implementing the recommendations. This was the phase of EU accession, and our judiciary was moving forward according to the standards of the Council of Europe. And then she came famous in 2014 when we were already in the EU, when we were unfortunately not like Romania and Bulgaria under monitoring, when we were left alone the story went wrong. In this 4 evaluation report, GRECO said that our process of electing the Supreme Court president is bad, that it is politicised, that it leads to mistrust in the reasons and criteria of choosing a leader at the top of the court, and since the Republic of Croatia had a certain reputation above all because of Mr. Mr. Mrcele, who is president of this GREC, we were given my judgment in 2014, since I was sitting in the auditorium at that plenary session and listening to the course of exposure and the course of the debate, so we received a mild recommendation, to consider whether we would change the election procedure. So we also considered in our good old Croatian political custom we did something to satisfy the form, and the content remained the same. And that's why we have two reports of how we fulfilled our recommendations, and these two reports show that we have fulfilled them badly. In fact, we've introduced this system in which, in fact, the State Judiciary Council has some role to play. Otherwise, GRECO asked that the State Judiciary Council play a much greater role in the selection process in order to reduce the inappropriate influence of politics. How inappropriate this influence of politics is here we see from this barren debate that lasted all day. GRECO says he sees that we have made some progress more or less, but in fact, despite the fact that we have now had public calls published in the National Journal, we have résumés, we have candidate programmes, in fact, that is, a certain step has been made, so we have more transparency, and thus we have given the opportunity to the Executive Authority and the Croatian Parliament to declare the criteria for which each candidate is appointed or accepted or not accepted, but the essence remains the same. It is essential that it remains in the Croatian Constitution, which is that the president proposes, the Croatian Parliament elects. And here we come to this vicious circle where we are...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53285	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53286	Whoever said GRECO said. Mrs. Oreshkovic, in your plastic display, the only thing that is not clear to me is you for the choice of Mrs. Djurdjevic, or you are against Mrs. Djurdjevic's choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53287	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53288	So I'm willing to read what it says here and do the job right. The fact is that Zlata Djurdjevic, with my vote for or against, will not be elected anyway, and that we will meet again in this situation you call hard cohabitation, right. So I would suggest that we accept the amendment and the addition of the Law on Courts so that all we now see is unsettled, inconsistencies, that it causes problems in implementation and practice to be resolved before the next public call is called and that we show that we are responsible and that the Croatian legislation of regulations and institutions are not changing order in order to show to the world and Europe that Croatia is taking care of the balance of three branches of government, but we are really doing this in the interest of all of us as Croatian citizens. And the responsibility is right now on us, at the Croatian Parliament and at the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53289	The next replica of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53290	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, knowing you as a responsible representative in the Croatian Parliament as you comment on President Milanovic's statement that, that you are his biggest joke, as he said a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53291	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53292	I am obviously not just his own, but his own personal screwup because his position is that when politics chooses then politics you owe something, and I am in my work and my results which are still publicly available to all of you has shown that I have worked responsibly, objectively, impartially, and that everything I have done is based on arguments, on facts, on the evidence that I am standing behind today. And I am fully aware that my electoral body, my electoral body, will resent me more because today I did not side with this side of the assembly, but I did not enter politics for the sake of ratings, I did not enter politics for cheap political points, nor for anyone to like me, I entered politics precisely because as a practitioner, as a lawyer perhaps more than all of you, but by doing so I do not want to offend you but, in practice, aware of all the problems of the Croatian judiciary and I have ideas about how to solve them in one inclusive way which also judges, but also those judges at the lowest levels, ask you what is really bothering them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53293	Thank you very much. The respected representative Oreskovic will now remain here and speak finally on behalf of the centre and GLAS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53294	Well, I was just about to say how to handle the problem in the judiciary. The first group is organisational problems. We have 66 courts. The President of the Supreme Court's report last year said that many courts work in inadequate buildings, not to mention buildings made during Austria-Hungarian. Of which, many buildings have been destroyed in the earthquake both in Zagreb and in the area of Bania. Secondly, a number of courts do not have basic working conditions. I remember one eyewitness when I was in the area of the city of Ogulin, at the end of that event the judge asked me if I was ready to sign just the last page of the record. When I asked why she said the whole court only had one portable printer, so they're damaged by toners and saving on materials. Also, in a number of courts, we have, for example, an insufficient number of land-book references, especially where we have permanent services on islands, and it is necessary to really employ the appropriate workforce to get some items done faster and better. As for the process of selecting the judges themselves, it should begin with a reorganisation, from a different design of the State Judiciary Council. Remove the two parliamentary deputies sitting there, professionalize that body, introduce an actual check of the property cards, not just the administration whether the judges handed them over in time or not. Let us introduce the obligation that anyone running for judge in advance declares his political and judicial ties in the system in order to eliminate inappropriate bias when selecting candidates. And as for the very process of selecting DSV members, you would not believe it, but most of those participating in the election actually have no knowledge of those who are candidates. No publication of their résumés, no publication of motivations for function in the State Judiciary Council. Less or less judges from different courts know nothing about each other unless it knocks on the door and lobbys for them. As for those adjudications to Shex and his godmothers and inappropriate association, it is necessary to increase the transparency and work of the judicial councils that implement decisions based on infringements of ethical codes. There are few, too few, and even when published on the websites on my big surprise, decisions are anonymous instead of being public, instead of judges showing that they are ready to clean the weeds out of their own ranks. As for the laws themselves that lead to our convicts fleeing to their second homeland, it is not something that can solve the election of a president or president of the Supreme Court. It's a matter of a whole series of amendments to both criminal and procedural laws. And how do you change them? It's in those reports that we don't read in detail, and we don't read properly. And once they are discussed, there is no reaction from the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body, so that all that the judicial authority has shown us will be corrected in time. We read the same reports year after year. We didn't extend the terms of the defendant's assets. For example, we did not foresee the possibility that the State's Attorney's Office could file a complaint against the decisions of the accused councils. We did nothing to make citizens feel that the Croatian judiciary is good quality. It depends not only on the quality of individual judges who judge in a particular case. First of all, they depend on the quality of the law, and what is the quality of these laws? Well, now that I see the laws being written and the votes being passed, I'm not surprised it's so low. These are the problems of the Croatian judiciary. And if we are already talking about amending the Law on Courts, then I appeal when we accept these amendments to amend the law first, to define everything that is now unclear, and then to point out that in the next public call candidates instead of speaking their political views, to focus on the affairs of the judicial administration defined in Article 29. Court law. 18 taxed different tasks very extensive and detailed. To be honest, neither candidate nor Zlata Djurdjevic envisioned her programme to follow what was her main task of authority and role. And that's why we saw the dissatisfaction of the Supreme Court judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53295	Thank you. The next final round will be the SDP representative club and the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53296	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues of the SDP Club will support the election of the Supreme Court president, as proposed by the President of the Republic. This debate has convinced us of a few things. First, Mrs. Djurdjevic is a good candidate. Second, unfortunately, she won't be chosen. Third, that the law that envisioned the election of the Supreme Court president was thus decommissioning the constitutional provision is lifeless and that probably no Supreme Court president would be elected by it. Fourth, that this story with the election of the Supreme Court president will entertain and occupy the Croatian public during the entire term of this parliamentary majority, i.e. this convocation of the Croatian Assembly and so on. They claim cohabitation with the President of the Republic. And fifth, that all of what I've said, at least this last one can be changed, but I doubt that's gonna happen. Relations that are currently ruling on a political scene between those who should agree on the election of the Supreme Court president are such that this is probably not going to happen in the near future, and it does not seem to me to be the only personnel blockade currently happening in relations between the Government and the President of the Republic, so from this place I can only call on anyone who can contribute to this to try to resolve the blockade and Croatia to get a legitimately elected Supreme Court president. When I say legitimately chosen then it is clear that if such a candidate is elected that he will receive more than two-thirds of the majority of the votes in the Croatian Parliament or will not be elected. How do we all know that it is very difficult to negotiate decisions that need to be made with a two-thirds majority and when we are in the interest of those who need to agree, then it is quite certain that such an agreement will not be easily reached when no one is pressing any deadlines. Since 19 July 2021, it seems to me that the term of office of the current Supreme Court president stands out, and as someone has said, there will be no constitutional, judicial and other crisis unless the President of the Supreme Court is elected after all, even if never. Either this will be done by the Vice-President of the Supreme Court, who is now on the annual schedule, or the parliamentary majority of legislative changes will bridge the situation when there is no Supreme Court President and thus de facto throw the President of the Republic out of any possibility of deciding who will be the President of the Supreme Court. There's probably no third option. Also from 19.7. The State Election Commission remains without its president, and this is not intended by law or annual work plan it amends, but by the Rules of Procedure of the State Election Commission which I am not sure should then have a level higher than the DIP Law. So if you're already changing the Law on Courts, then you can change the Law on the State Election Commission, too, to predict that thing. As far as the debate on Mrs Djurdjevic herself is concerned, it is likely that the tone and way of discussion of the special part of the MPs will be discouraging for all those who would like to make a public call without prior agreement between the president of the HDZ and the President of the Republic who will win, or who will receive support in the Croatian Assembly, which means that whoever would have been chosen must be elected in the event. And since these exceptional criteria of HDZ are that someone who did not even report to the competition, only the President of the Republic proposed it to the Croatian Parliament was the only store Mrs Djurdjevic had made and it was not a store. Because the resume is public, so she shouldn't have sent it to the President of the Republic. She could only say I accept that it's already a red card by HDZ. Now imagine what it would be like to have someone agree to participate in a staged competition. I think you'd insult him the way it's said on a dog's car. So all the reasons we've heard can come down to one thing. Mrs. Djurdjevic is not acceptable to you because she was proposed by the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic has proposed it without consulting the Prime Minister before. Everything else is a folklore party and an attempt to mark real reasons like this. Mrs. Djurdjevic cannot be good for you for the International Court, and it is not good for the Croatian court, or that means that the International Court is still lower than the Croatian court or there is a simple issue of ego, and everything else is something that we must defend in the Assembly in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53297	The next final one will speak on behalf of Green-left bloc MP Sandra Bencic on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53298	Thank you. When we joined the club this question ever since the candidate and candidate programmes came, we saw the opportunity for all of us, regardless of which club we come from, to show a higher level of responsibility to public functions especially in this function, which is crucial to establishing trust in the judicial system, establishing trust in the judicial system is actually the key to every organised community and every organised state. And we know it's one of our biggest problems, we've already talked about it. And then we said that it was less important for us, so who suggested who and that we would really be guided by objective criteria which of the candidates and candidates is really the most professional, who has the best experience behind him and who in his programme has shown the breadth and understanding of the key problems of the judiciary. I think that each of you individually no matter how you vote, if you joined the reading program in such a way that he saw the program of Professor. Djurdjevic, as well as her answering our questions at the hearing, shows simply a big difference compared to all other candidates, both by expertise and by quality, but also by the integrity she showed. Unfortunately, what has actually turned out in this debate today is that we are not as Parliamentarians up to the idea that we can be a political body, as someone who is a political representative of citizens in Croatia, by the criteria of objectivity and expertise, not by the criteria of similarity. Here, we can't. And now what's the proof of that? Well, we've heard from a few clubs today, if you're going to vote for that person and that person or if you think she's a good candidate, then we won't. So it's a political issue, political similarities or incompatibility, not an assessment of objective criteria and expertise, something. They spoke openly here, and I must say, so it is indeed possible then to question whether this Parliament is capable of electing the Supreme Court president in the way these presidents are elected in other European countries' parliaments. I'd also like to use this time to say what things are in the program, Professor. Djurdjevic, whom we believe should be heard by citizens and should hear what it is, what an opportunity we are missing. So, I'd point out that he's a professor. Djurdjevic specifically noted that what she sees as some activity at the post of Supreme Court President is to encourage the practice and application of the law in a way that discussions in courts are pre-prepared and that they are then kept in continuity. That means you don't have a hearing at the 3rd month, then next year at the 2nd, but that the hearings work in continuity until they're done, so they're compromised. That would shorten the procedures for a lot. What else did she say about actually shortening, shortening the length of court proceedings? She said the possibility of restoring and extending powers to second-degree courts should be considered to conduct discussions with the aim of dictating, multiple termination and return of cases to the first-degree court. To translate to you, dear citizens, that means that when you get the verdict at the first degree, then the appeal goes to the county court, and then the county court goes on to do it for another year, two, three, and then instead of deciding to measure it, he cancels the first-degree court verdict and returns to retrial, and it takes another three years, so let's do it all from the beginning. Here's something that Professor. Djurdjevic would also like to do so, and if there is a complaint against a senior court that the senior court will then, metrically, decide on the appeal and end the proceedings. It would also shorten the duration of the proceedings. There's still a lot of what's listed here. Which is why we're going to support the candidate Professor. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53299	The next closing word will be, thank you very much. Your time is up. That's 10 seconds. You can't finish five sentences. I'm surprised that's what you're saying, and you're a big advocate for regulations and rules, aren't you? The following will be the final club representative of the HDZ, and the respected representative Damir Habian will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53300	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to try to sum up what we had a chance to hear here today, try to say something I may not have said in an individual debate. So first of all, once again to the colleagues of the SDP, they insist on it as much as I understand it now and haven't figured out the point yet. So, it's not a problem that he's a professor. Djurdjevic, the candidate proposed by the president of the state, because the president of the state is the only one who can do so under the Constitution and the law, so that's not the problem. The problem is that after that deadline for the public invitation was expired, Djurdjevic, a colleague, agreed to participate in the procedure, in addition to the Law on Courts and Article 44a. And it's quite clear and there's no misunderstanding that she tried to explain to her colleague Bencic that there was something strange, incomprehensible. It's no wonder, with the breakthrough sentence you started, so as it begins, it starts with a public call. Normally, if a candidate can only be one who participates in a public call, the Constitutional Court also tells you in its decision on who the candidate is, that is also the general session of the Supreme Court who is the candidate. Therefore, there is nothing unclear, it does not suit you but it is also important for the Croatian public to understand it. So there's nothing controversial about it. Let's not make fog about something that's not there. So it's perfectly clear she wasn't a candidate, she knew she was a criminal guide to the criminal law department and therefore she was aware of what was going on and what could happen, and it happened now. And that's the moment the HDZ Representatives Club said it wouldn't and can't because it disqualified itself to support professor. Djurdjevic. But in order not to remain only to insist on the procedure now, I also said in the individual and colleague Bosnjakovic the reasons for the programme, which is why Prof. Djurdjevic can't support it. So in the first page, it talks about respecting the Constitution and the law, and at the first step, the prestep itself broke the law and the Constitution. He's talking about the need for digitization in his program, nobody mentioned it today. So, I don't know if she's not informed because she's a theorists, not a practitioner, so we also have an e-record, and e-communication, and we have remote hearings, so that's not something new. In the introduction part of the programme, it discusses the choice of judges, criticises the 1990s, criticises the way judges were elected, however, in its proposal later talks about the need to change the election of members of the State Judiciary Council in a way that most of them are parliamentary deputies. So if it's not politicisation then I don't know what it is, then I don't know what it is and I don't know what the surprise is. They say that the art policy is possible, we have now come to a situation that a man's device is to become impossible, I mean the author of the president of the state. So, the problem came from him and here to drag HDZ into what you were doing today is a completely missed thesis and it's not good and the Croatian public I think after this debate as much as it was quite smutty and was not content about the programme itself has shown one thing, which is that you are wrong, which is that you are wrong and there are no ambiguities about the application of the law, that there is absolutely no argument that the candidate unfortunately some things that already exist in the Croatian judicial system do not understand or will not understand, suggests some of the things that we left in 2010, and you know why we had major problems with the negotiations, why we changed some things. The SDP may be most surprising, so in 2018 he praised this very basis for selecting the President or President of the Supreme Court, and today he is sending proposals for the assessment of the consent of that provision with the Constitution, which is another co-operative turn exactly what the co-operative establishment has made and fellow Djurdjevic, respectively. Djurdjevic when she answered that public invitation six months ago to elect a judge, so at the European Court of Human Rights, and she failed to do so consciously for a month afterwards. It was said here and about independence, he mentioned it if I didn't cheat on the president of the SDP, that independence disappeared the moment he was actually forced into this procedure knowing that he was breaking the law, that he was breaking the constitution, and there was actually her biggest mistake that she trusted the president of the state that clearly everything would be okay. It turned out the way it turned out, the HDZ Representatives Club like this, the kind of candidate who, in advance, broke the law, who in his program has some things that simply don't stand with which we and we have the right to disagree as much as you like, can't and won't support it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-24-0.u53301	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
