ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42798	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We in the Homeland Movement have been tearing our throats apart for a year, pointing to examples of unscrupulous corruption and abductions conducted by HDZ with its satellites. Such an economic genocide over this people has not dared to operate even the worst occupiers in this area. In early December of last year, we showed who is playing with public money at the Ministry of Health, but the prime minister's team is so arrogant, and I think so much that no one can do it anyway on 12.01 this year, means 40 days after the public of the Croatian institutions heard the story from the Parliament's pay phone, to approve the results of the competitions. Millions of jobs have been allocated to former Sanader health ministers and florists who organize wedding salons. Only after some of the more free media have detailed the course of these criminal operations has the health minister annulled part of the competition that was awarded to former Minister Ljubicic, while other decisions remain in force for the latest information, until tonight, allegedly, that we have lost our favorite IT florist. We need to check it out. We remind once again that these millions are not the main damage to the Republic of Croatia or even those allocated to more than 300 million kunas from EU funds that should have been used to digitise health. The main cost and damage to the Republic of Croatia were the releases of billions of missed savings that should have been achieved this year after digitisation needed to determine where the money leaks. But I guess that's clear now for all of us, some very powerful circles close to the prime minister obviously want us to clearly determine where the leaks are to take decisive reactions. For example, drug costs have increased 50% over the past few years, but nobody knows how or in any segments. All we know is that taxpayers, businessmen, citizens, must pay an additional 2.5 billion kuna. How did the Prime Minister act, our fake European? At the very beginning, it leaves at least some possibility for the truth to know what the birds on the branch know, so he told Maric and Beroš to scratch a little at the health costs because there may be unnecessary costs there. So is this the speech and attitude of the first and most responsible man of the state? True, man has a focus on the defense of the character and part of the coalition partner of the trade coalition, Mr. Pupovac and his SDSS, so there's no time to deal with small things like a few billion minuses how much a year it leaks through the health system. After the procedure for impeachment of Minister Beros, the prime minister takes an even worse stand, a complete denial of the problem. He says the opposition has taken over some media articles there and is now making a big story out of it. The elaborately elaborated affairs of the Ministry of Health that is inflicted on the state it is heading, it is cynically called media articles and is then surprised that Transparency put it alongside Lukashenko to share with him 63rd place of the world's most corrupt country. Congratulations. Being one of the most corrupt countries in the EU and beyond would not be possible if we had a regulated public procurement system, so it is surprising as the government to criticise that too much of the National Recovery and Resistance plan is investing in the private sector says public investment through public procurement will be spilled into the private sector anyway. So that is what we are most afraid of, and we see what our public procurement system is like, so we do not need to be a prophet to understand how the other money that will come from the EU to the Republic of Croatia will end. However, by considering these examples, it is increasingly clear how the outcome is, which is the outcome of all our problems, even worse described. A judicial system, or as I call it, a toad, which ignores all these worse facts, what the situation in our society is we all know, and the relevant research shows that by the efficiency of 140 in the world. However, in the recent presentation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the Government has stated that it is of great importance to continue to develop an impartial and effective judiciary. They also argue that their aim is to raise the state's effectiveness in implementing reforms, although all their reforms failed before they even started. However, we from the Homeland Movement have one message for this team that mercilessly devastates the public money of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You are very boastful, but you will never be able to be as boastful as we will be persistent in revealing your Sundays. I will finish my speech by using the words of your important European, and we will end your misdeeds, which I guarantee you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42887	The next club of representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42888	We hear there's too often 22 billion missing from the budget. Can we easily accept the wheezing of the great burden of the pension and health system and that these systems are undercharged from special contributions and that they are long-term unsustainable? I don't think we can. I think we're wrong in the evaluation and evaluation. I want to paint the difference. What makes the difference between 26 billion pension incomes and 42 billion incomes? The difference is 3.5 billion kuna pension payments under special regulations that are not covered by contributions, 7 billion kuna payments in II. pension column, individual capitalised savings that will be useful only to those with above average salaries. 1.4 billion social benefits for the payment of national, minimum pensions, pardon. Five billion unaccounted for by the gray economy. A billion kuna is missing due to legal work without payment of contributions, e.g. working through student service. Low wages in the real sector, honorary exceptions, cannot significantly improve the situation. Large untaxable expenditures pay more than one average salary per year, which is a social shock absorber for the poorest. 100,000 new jobs announced, it's a lot if they're high-paying and expansion activities and it's almost nothing if it's a job break, because poor workers, become poor pensioners. Let's compare, neighbouring Slovenia has a very similar relationship between workers and pensioners, as well as the Republic of Slovenia. But it has higher salaries and higher pensions because it has higher productivity, preserved industry, higher absorption capacity from EU funds and business and financial autonomy of the pension and health system. So he knows what money is spent on. In the pension system, they don't have preferential pensions, they don't have II. the pension column or compulsory pension funds, reflect on the establishment of a pension fund where all the best shares of their state-owned enterprises would be found, to create a accumulation for the ever-increasing pension and social expenditures. They have many billions engaged in the fight against poverty that they realize through the pension system and the social system as social transfers and protect their citizens almost to the poverty line. They have fewer gray economies, no untaxable payouts to workers, no payoffs. Therefore, they have significantly better average salaries and pensions but also 60% of employees and former employees, living below average, but there are mechanisms to help workers and pensioners. This is what Croatia does not have and did not move away from the dead letter on paper in strategies. Our health system suffers from reduced contributions, due to the grey economy, legal work without payment of contributions and exemptions from payment of contributions under the law without the obligation to compensate from the budget. With uncontrollable spending on extremely expensive drugs due to lack of prevention, and possibly because of modernity. And there's six billion kuna missing last year. I wonder, who are we masochists when we enjoy a mess like this and when our problem-solving major player is the finance minister? I'm even taking off his hat, all the honor, he's doing well, even with a dose of charm and humor, but it's just fire measures that we're going to pay for at some point. We need transparent and clear systems that are responsible for revenue and expenditure. To know what income and cost is, to meet the assumed legal obligations and never keep all the eggs in the same basket because if so, then politics keeps the main word, which is very, very dangerous in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42918	The next club of MPs will be that green-left block on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42919	Thank you. I'm going to talk to you today about an emergency and, in fact, in a normal country, an incredible situation that happens in the KBC of the Mercy Sisters, and the reason for this situation is the repeated long-standing behavior of the president there, Dr. Diane Zadravec, who despite the fact that repeated doctors working with her are rebelling, and now not only riots, but also leaving the KBC, including the Institute of tumours, is held by some miracle in that same position. So I'll remind you that in 2013, 19 doctors signed a letter in which they complained about her relationship with other employees and asked for her shift. Of course. It didn't happen. What happened? - Mrs. Crescent. Zadravec was awarded a candidacy in the 2016 HDZ elections. Of course, it should not be said that he is a member of the HDZ and is a prominent member, among other things, of their Committee on Health. In 2019, we heard about the charges against her for a physical assault on one employee, so a physical attack. 2020 However, we listened to her phone conversation with Minister Beroshe in which, we would say a very unusual conversation, blackmail and threats addressed Minister Berosha, and all because it became evident that she would not be elected director of the KBC. I'll just also remind you that after so-called. the physical accounting that took place between Zadarec and one of the employees that the Working Council so requested to be resolved and that the commission established to investigate the case concluded that there was a conflict that crossed the line of appropriate business behaviour between employees and considered that Mrs. The Zadrac has exceeded its powers. After that, however, Minister Kujundzic sent a letter to the KBC's "Sister of Mercy" and to the director there, so he asked to postpone the governing council's debate on its case. Why did he ask for it? Because after a few days, a shift took place in the governing council, they had a certain majority that was, of course, against Zadravec's resolution. So what this whole relationship history has as a result today is that we've stayed on 3 radiologists in tumors, that 3 of the employees are inside working with the lady. In the last 48 hours, Zadravec has asked for an ambulance and ended up in the ER because people are tired because there are not enough staff, the job has not been reduced, and for the reason that here today they have protests in front of their institution and warn that they can no longer withstand that amount of mobbing, nor such schedule and manner of work they have. But we also heard it today in the towers, so I call on the press to directly ask the prime minister that the prime minister himself has been uraging towards the V.D. Mr. Zovko's director, so he doesn't touch Mrs. KBC. It's a bird. So again we have the most governmental interference in personneling and resolving relations in the KBCs. I will just say that this is all the result together of the way HDZ literally occupied our healthcare system, so the director of the largest KBC, so on the "Rebr" is a prominent HDZ member. It is also the same with the KBC "Mercur", and it is also with the KB "Holy Spirit", and so it is with "Frana Mihaljevic" where the director is generally known, of course. Alemka Markotic, nominated by HDZ for "Zagrebjanka of the Year". So all I can say for all of this is that the HDZ is responsible for the fact that we don't have radiologists on tumors, that people have to organise themselves in protests and that people who work for a year in impossible conditions to put them in a position to end up on an ambulance because you leave them with Mrs. A bird who has blackmailed our prime minister with something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42992	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u42993	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues. There are more than 3,000 children in Croatia who do not have adequate or no parental care at all. These children are located in homes for carefree children, SOS villages and family homes or foster families. At the same time, only about 200 children are ready for adoption. This is the result of bad law, too long procedures, the wrong basic concept by which the biological family, regardless of what the child actually has and does not have without parents, always takes precedence over everyone else and one phone call a year can prevent the child from ever being adopted. But it needs to be quite realistic. If we could adopt all three thousand children without parental care, there wouldn't be enough adoptors. Unfortunately, it's only about half that number, about a thousand and a half. The whole system is not well planned and should seek smart and complete reform, because as it is now unfortunately, most children who have no parental care are sentenced to childhood in homes or in foster homes. I certainly don't want to say that these people don't try or do well, but a stable and stable family is still something else. It is particularly difficult for children who are older, have more brothers and sisters, have health problems or developmental difficulties, or are, to say plainly, members of another ethnic group. That is why the indescribable verdict, so far inadmissible by the Administrative Court on 21 April, is indescribable. The decision repeals the decision of the Centre for Social Care and Confirmation and the Ministry Decision prohibiting the same-sex couple from entering into the process of assessing the suitability for adoption. The Court found that the Centre and the Ministry did not take into account all the rights that can be applied, primarily the Life Partnership Act and the Family Law. Most of course, it is a violation of the Republic of Croatia by which all citizens have equal rights, regardless of the diversity, including different sexual orientations. This verdict is an important step in the way of a long-standing fight for the equality of Croatian citizens. Often, the rights of same-sex couples and homosexuals in this country are experienced and represented as some extra rights, as some addition that is sought over what all citizens have. That's one big lie. And that should be made clear. This isn't about something extra or more. It's about equating the rights and opportunities of all people. I therefore again ask that the Government prepare amendments to the law in this direction and not only because it is right from the perspective of equality before the law but also because it is an open view of the family that has the interests and rights of the child at the centre. In this case, children who have been waiting for years to adopt. The worst thing for children is to spend their entire childhood in homes or to move from foster home to foster home and then, at the age of 18, they lose anyone. This is part of the reform of the social care system because it expands the circle of adoptors and there are absolutely no arguments that this possibility should not be opened to life partners. And not just for them, but for everyone. Regardless of the registered partnership, marital status, sex, and sexual orientation they want to give to children, love, and family, they can meet the conditions prescribed for it. It's clear to me that most people don't think of it. They'll do anything to make no change. To keep everything quiet and dysfunctional the way it's been so far. As they stand up for the children, for the family, they actually only advocate for some children and only for some families. Their mouths are full of the warmth of the family home, care for their children, but as they seek out the perfect family, thousands and thousands of children grow up without any family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43152	The next club of representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43153	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. According to data from July 2020, 229 thousand people have been evicted from Croatia from the State Statistics Institute since 2013, and in particular, Slavonia, Lika and the hinterland of Dalmatia, where the largest number of students are recorded. According to the same data in seven years, we've lost 51 thousand students. Even 405 district schools or more than a third of all district schools have barely 10 students. For example, in the P.R. of Kaja Adzic in... only one student attends the course in Požega-Slavon County, and for the next school year the school will be closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite such devastating data, the government has just now made a decision to launch a strategy for demographic revitalisation by 2031.Isn't it strange that in 2021 we are just now deciding on a strategic framework in the area of demographic revitalisation after we have already had the Ministry of Demography, now the Ministry of Labour, and the issue of demographics is being raised as one of the key problems of Croatia's future development in almost all documents, starting from the election programmes of the parties to the National Development Strategy? What are the universal objectives of a number of and too many strategies, including national and these future ones, concerns quality harmonisation of family and business obligations, strengthening the capacity of pre-school education and a number of other objectives to stop negative demographic trends. And while ruling on writing another strategy that will result in goals that have been known for decades and have long been applied in other European countries, the years pass, families move out, and real will or knowledge for demographic revitalisation is lacking. Services to families, young people, available content for children and young people may be reality in developed countries, while in most Croatian citizens live socially excluded. For who knows what time we here repeat that social homes in evicted villages have no additional value for these residents. If social homes are also restored, they should have a purpose, local self-government should be supporters of projects for children and young people through the work of local committees or stakeholders, young people and children to offer content in these same homes. How do we see local self-government? It should be at the service of citizens and be organised to assess the needs of its citizens. A number of adopted action plans with prescribed measures and operators have not produced results because no one is following the implementation of action plans or, for example, local self-government or other carriers have ever had the consequences of their inactions. We are witnessing that due to insufficient services for children with difficulties throughout the family, they are evicting because they want to provide adequate health care, support for growth and development and early intervention that they are unable to obtain in their environments. No strategy will bring results unless the implementation of the activities is brought down and commits local environments to ensure the necessary assurance for their citizens. Otherwise, we will continue to have developed local environments and sensitized for our citizens, while on the other hand we have those that have not developed a system of support for families and children and young people, children with difficulty and will remain at the beginning of development in social services and on the other hand, renewed markets. We believe that, with material and immaterial support, tax relief and lifelong learning and the harmonisation of education needs with the labour market, as measures at national level, regional and local self-government should be key holders in the development of social services to support the family. Here we think of supporting family members from the earliest age to support, meaning old and powerless, development of accommodation facilities and palitative care. This way we are looking for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure in the working group a real and honest interdisciplinary approach of experts from practice and science who will be able to make their real contribution to the resolution of demographic revitalisation, as well as representatives of parliamentary opposition to ensure the contribution of all because the problem of demographic revitalisation is our common problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43246	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zdravka Busic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian delegation led by the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Mr Gordan Grlic Radman, was in Sudotica last week for the ceremony of laying the cornerstone with the construction of the "Croatian House". As part of the delegation, Mr. Zvonko Milas, Head of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, was the State Secretary of State, and I was personally part of the delegation as chairman of the Assembly Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Together, I would say, we have sent a strong message of government support and assembly to the Croatian minority in Serbia, as well as our commitment to seek the achievement of all their rights as well as reciprocity. The delegation also met with representatives of the Croatian National Council in the Republic of Serbia. The construction of a Croatian house is financed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian House will be a symbol of the centuries-old life and survival of Croats in Serbia but also a symbol of Croatians' desire to preserve and develop their own identity and culture, continue to contribute to the cultural, social, economic and all the progress of the country in which they live and whose citizens are loyal. Therefore, building a Croatian house is of strategic importance for the activities and position of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia provides strong support to the Croatian community to exercise all its rights in order to actively participate in political and social life. The Republic of Croatia will continue to point out the importance of respecting and promoting minority rights, as well as Croatian rights in Serbia. It will point to the importance of the principle of inclusiveness as well as the importance of creating an atmosphere in which minorities, all minorities, will be able to develop their identity and participate equally and effectively in the life of the country in which they live. Minorities rightly expect full support from both the country in which they live and from their home country. When we talk about the importance of the good position of minorities in bilateral relations with the Republic of Serbia, I must mention an agreement on the mutual protection of minorities, the national minorities signed in 2004 which unfortunately Serbia still respected. The Croatian state will insist on seeking that the minority in Serbia enjoys all the rights that the Serb minority is exercising in Croatia, which is not yet quite achieved today. There are still a number of issues about their status, but also relations with Serbia, such as representation in state and representative bodies that Serbia has not yet met with the Croatian minority. That is why the Croatian house needs the Croatian community to breathe their full lungs. It will be a central point in the life of the Croatian community in Subotica, but much more than that. Pre-conditions will be met for the even stronger and more effective work of three key institutions of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, which are the Croatian National Council, the Ministry of Culture of the Vojvodina Croats and the Croatian News publishing institution. This project clearly shows how much we can do when we have goals and when we act together. Even when all our circumstances are true, many of them are neither prone nor agreeable. For the Croatian minority in Serbia, Croatia will continue to seek what is guaranteed to the Serb minority in Croatia and above all, representation in state and representation bodies, as well as in other levels of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43248	Thank you. That's what we're gonna do with today's work. We will continue tomorrow, on Friday, 7 May, 9:30 and very important, and please pass it on to your colleagues, so we will begin with a statement on the amendments, and after that we will go to the club's position and then at 12 o'clock there will be a vote. So, taking the club's position will be before the vote and not after the vote to say, save time because I think there's going to be too much of a time gap between a statement on amendments and a vote at 12 o'clock. Here, thank you very much and have a good afternoon. SESSION Interrupted at 13.43 p.m. Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST on behalf of which the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43347	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today I will certainly give the shortest speech in this parliamentary term, otherwise the time has always been little if it were 5 minutes of free speech or 10 minutes on behalf of the club, these are all complex topics that require access from different sides of analysis and time is always little. But now in what I'm about to say is completely different after this brief introduction, I repeat this speech is the shortest in my term, it will come to a single sentence, namely one call. Instigated by this embarrassing incident that took place on Easter on Julian calendar last week. Croatia for which we fight is not Croatia in which to call for the slaughter of anyone and is not Croatia in which any child will feel threatened and hear that someone threatens to murder just for the sake of belonging to any child. Neither is Croatia where we will have monuments for criminals such as the Shoskocan and everyone will act silly about it. So, I'm talking to Mr. Milorad Pupovac, who was the loudest in the event, and that's one single sentence of my speech, and it's like this: Mr. Pupovac, with everything you've said in the last days of that incident, I expect you to start an initiative in the assembly to replace the Minister of Police Bozinović, in which you will have our full support and our 8 signatures if it is necessary today, and otherwise we will think that all of this is merely hypocritical neglect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43438	The next Club of Representatives will be the IDS, and the Honorable representative Katarina Nemet will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u43439	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. To this day’s stand, I was moved by conversations with a number of people with disabilities who, unfortunately, face many specific problems and difficulties almost daily. They are often left to themselves or to their loved ones. Some of the problems are also solved with the help of associations that care for people with disabilities and in various other ways, but what they say, they lack appropriate institutional support at state level, primarily appropriate legal frameworks that will help to solve some of their most important problems systematically. And when we talk about legislative frameworks in that domain, there is a particular need to highlight the Law on Inclusive Adjectives and the Law on Personal Assistants. Both of these laws are extremely important because they should be subject to benefits from disabled persons and on the other hand, personal assistance services that are unfortunately not adequately available to many. As regards the inclusive allowance, it is clear that, because of meeting their general and specific needs, people with disabilities rarely have increased cost of life, it is crucial to define a clear, well-developed and effective legal framework that will enable them to receive adequate compensation and therefore a reasonable and dignified life. The law, however, has been announced for years, even 2011. The Law on Social Care introduced a provision on the adoption of the Law on Inclusive Adjectives but so far the law has not seen the light of day. Every so often in convenient situations such as the Day of Persons with Disabilities or similar occasions, this law is mentioned over and over again. There is always a new deadline for its adoption, but no sign of the law so far. There is, as I have already mentioned, the problem of personal assistance that many people with disabilities are one of our own. This problem should be much more appropriate to regulate the adoption of fair and needs in practice-adapted Law on personal assistance, of course, with a consensus with associations representing persons with disabilities. As far as I know, at the end of March a meeting of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held for persons with disabilities discussing several important strategic documents from this domain. I hope that when they are adopted, they will bring a certain turn in policies relating to people with disabilities. Shtures of information available to the public say that this occasion was also about continuing to draw up a draft of the Law on Inclusive Supplement and the Law on Personal Assistance. Also, from a shrewd statement on the Ombudsman's website for disabled persons, it can be learned that a meeting was held on 20 April with Minister Aladrovic on which it was said that problems encountered by persons with disabilities in the exercise of their rights, however, two mentioned laws are only taxingly listed among these topics, as well as several other, definitely more important topics. I will certainly submit to the relevant addresses a written inquiry into some more detailed information, primarily in which phase the draft laws in question are drawn up and if they could finally be found on the agenda of this legislature. However, I also point out this way, the public appeal to all the competent in this process to speed up the procedure since they have had a really long time for quality preparation of legal acts and that these two so-called laws are finally adopted and become a quality basis for solving some of the most important problems of people with disabilities. I hope that these laws will be found very soon, and I especially want to believe that, thanks to them, persons with disabilities will be encouraged to live an active and independent life in accordance with their wishes and abilities and that, on the other hand, new laws will encourage institutions to improve the existing system and practice of supporting people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47629	Dear Parliamentarians and Parliamentarians good morning. Before we move on to the debate on the first item of today's schedule, the Committee on Agriculture proposed on the basis of Article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS to conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Final proposal of the Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 98; - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 97 Do you agree with this proposal? If there are no objections to those laws, we will conduct a united debate. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the It's about the Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now like to ask the representative of the proposer, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak, to give an explanation for this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47630	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the HS, the distinguished ladies of the Parliament's attorney and the respected gentlemen of Parliament. You are presented with proposals for two laws, the Law on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, animal food, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act. The final proposal of the Official Control Act allows for the implementation of Regulation 645 of 2017. of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities ensuring the application of food, feed, animal health and animal welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products in the Republic of Croatia. Official controls are currently carried out in accordance with the applicable Law on Official Controls, and the final proposal for this law extends the scope of the application of official controls and other official activities in the field of plant health and plant protection. The final proposal for a law establishes a single legal framework for integrated access to organisation, coordination, the implementation of official controls throughout the agricultural and food chain, ensuring the continued functioning of the insurance system of food safety and the professional, efficient and rational exercise of official controls and other official activities ensuring the application of rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products with a view to ensuring a high level of protection of human, animal and plant health and animal welfare. The final proposal for a law lays down the competent authorities for all areas covered by the scope of Regulation 625 of 2017. and their tasks related to the organisation, implementation and coordination of official controls and other official activities, the financing of official controls, administrative assistance and cooperation methods, reporting communications, border controls, becomes checkpoints of other border crossings and customs posts for imports, fees and fees for official controls, system and reference laboratories, the establishment of a computer and information system for the management of information and data relating to official controls and infringements. In relation to the existing law, the final draft law clearly defines a harmonised approach with regard to official controls and other official activities in all areas that are extended to both plant health and plant protection products. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the reference was made. 625 of 2017 EU Regulations of the Council and Parliament final proposal introduces the possibility of empowering natural persons to carry out certain tasks, other official activities as professional matters of public interest, e.g. preventive vaccinations, diagnostic and other tests to protect animal health, measures to detect, control and prevent and eradicate infectious or artificial diseases. The final proposal also introduces, in relation to the existing Law on Official Control, the possibility of sampling goods sold through means of communication at a distance and measures in the case of established disagreements. Furthermore, the final proposal for a law combines provisions on the system of official and reference laboratories for all areas of the application of the Regulation in such a way that laboratories are empowered and operated under the same conditions as those laid down for all laboratories involved in the implementation of the analysis, giving the basis to the competent authorities for the adoption of the implementing rules and further establishing the procedure for the registration and approval of food facilities. This final proposal gives the State Inspectorate the power to delegate official controls and other official activities in the area of the application of food, feed, animal protection and by-products of animal origin, as well as the financing of official controls, which is currently in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. The final draft law shall ensure that competent authorities acting in the public interest have adequate resources and equipment and guarantee impartiality and professionality and ensure quality, consistency and efficiency of official controls. For this purpose, the final proposal for a law requires official controls to be carried out on the basis of written documented procedures and mechanisms for the permanent verification of the effectiveness and consistency of their own activities and the taking of corrective measures when deficiencies are identified. It is of great importance that competent authorities can rapidly and effectively exchange data and information in relation to official controls or their results and, to that end, the final proposal for a law provides for a provision of competences or contact points for individual Commission information systems. The final proposal for a law provides for infringements which are defined as effective deterrents whose weight takes into account possible damage to human health that may be caused by infringements, including in cases where subjectives cooperate during official controls and where false or misleading certificates or certificates are produced or used, and in cases of breach of the rules committed by fraud or misleading practices. In relation to the draft first-reading law relating to the draft Act amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, the period of minimum 6 months complementing it with an additional 6 months after supervision and the proposal has been completed in such a way that an additional 6-month working period for the purposes of carrying out official controls has been introduced for the purposes of carrying out official controls is 6 months under the supervision of an authorised veterinarian with experience in the delegated body. The tasks of official controls shall only be entrusted to delegated bodies as legal entities and shall be subject to the power of authorised veterinarians exclusively within the framework of the delegated body. Professional training of authorised veterinarians, inter alia, and body obligations, in accordance with the provisions of Article 5. The official controls Regulation and this provision further emphasises that the obligation for veterinarians proposed by a delegated body to appoint an authorised authority is an obligation. In addition to the amendments mentioned above, the EU list of the Regulation in Article 1 has also been updated and Article 5(1) has been updated since the delegated provision of the Commission of 2035 of 21 April 2019 which puts part of the Implementing Commission of 262 of 2015. Accordingly, the amendments and the infringement provisions in relation to the obligations of the subjects and veterinarian with regard to the identification document for the equidae are appropriate. Also, pardon, in relation to the draft law of the proposal, the proposal of the Law on Official Controls and other official activities for the first reading, there are no more significant reasons in the final proposal of the law than the no-technically designed interpretation of certain provisions, and at the same time all observed delays in the normative part of the law have been corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47631	Thank you, Secretary of State. We'll go now with the replicas, there's a total of six. The first one's a respected colleague, Grman Kizvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47632	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, on our request, the following is responsible for the first reading of this bill. The implementation of this law does not require additional budgetary resources compared to those previously laid down by the current Law on Official Controls. In relation to the financial impact on legal and natural persons, this law does not provide for additional costs or obligations. We may not understand each other, but the public and we are interested in how much the implementation of the system of official controls costs, how much of the total funding is provided from the state budget for all the competent authorities? And the second question is, how did you come to the fact that still authorised veterinarians need a little more work experience, since when we first read all of the opposition, we objected to it, and you rejected it in the light of the final proposal for the law of our remark, and you finally accepted it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47633	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47634	Thank you. In view of the current implementation of the current law, therefore, there is no additional financial impact on this law and the budget is transparent in part means implementation of both the Veterinary Act and the future Law on Official Controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47635	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47636	Okay, so in part of this, this remark or commentary for an additional 6 months under the supervision of authorised veterinarians, we have therefore observed the comments and we believe that this is positive. We have also estimated that, compared to what was proposed in the first reading, it takes another 6 months under surveillance, but for jobs that differ in terms of jobs that are defined compared to the first six months. [[Intruder: Thank you, finish the sentence.]] So it's about official controls. veterinary bodies. [[Okay, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47637	Thank you. Injury of my colleague, Grman Kizivat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47638	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, Article 238, Secretary of State, for one thing, I asked you how much funds are allocated from the state budget, the exact amount of money. I asked you this last week about some other things as much as Croatia gets in the next budget period, and I can't get a specific number. And as for 6 months of extra for veterinarians, for authorised veterinarians, it was just an objection, and after we suggested it, the minister said it was 6 months and more than enough. And that's the whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47639	Thank you very much, you've replicated, and that's clear to you, you're getting a warning. Comrade Maric, here you go. Please just turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47640	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State in preparation for this point I watched a little report from the media and it stuck to my eyes potatoes, I'm a Međimurka, so here's a really important potato, and I saw that from 1.1 to 20.4 it was imported and examined as a young potato from Egypt, but only 10 samples were taken, and then it was seen that some of these samples did not fit. That's the first problem. Another thing, do you think more samples should have been taken after all? And secondly, since this one as a young potato is, I say as a young potato, and it travels for 3 to 4 weeks, and the waist says it's really a young potato if it wasn't treated it would have lasted the most on shipments a week. So obviously this undefined regulation is undefined, which is even a young potato. Do you think we really eat healthy food that we import from third countries? Are we protected from pesticides? And should you still be doing more control and taking More samples? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47641	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47642	Thank you. As regards the new proposal for the Law on Official Controls, it is, on the basis of compliance with Regulation 625 of 2017, going towards improving this system, and all official controls and consignors from third countries are carried out in a non-discriminatory manner on the basis of a risk assessment and there is a multiannual plan of official controls. A State inspectorate may adopt an annual plan or may also carry out a certain type of control based on and targeted means an assessment of the sample that it has defined as part of its multiannual plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47643	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47644	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, it is prohibited in the Republic of Croatia to disclose the identity of the offenders who, after official controls have been carried out, have been detected as those who violate the provisions of the law, for example in shopping centres, put on shelves incorrect food and the like, but with respect to point 31 of the introduction of Regulation 2017/625, this is not so strictly defined and the possibility of public disclosure of such entities is left. Why didn't we comply with the provisions of this regulation in exactly the part that, I think, is extremely important, so could we now, on this reading, edit it that way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47645	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47646	I thank you for your question. Therefore, this proposal of the Law on Official Controls as well as the Law on Veterinary Control passed two readings, within the framework of discussions and communication with a wide range of stakeholders, much has been done to ensure that in the final version of the Law everything is on the one hand harmonised and to get a better and more effective system of official controls and on what you have highlighted, Croatia or the Proposer in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture has done all the necessary actions to make the final proposal of the law effective and quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47647	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47648	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Majdak, from committee to this session, I've been given an indication of the people who work in the lab and who claim that you've left in this law the possibility that you don't have to be accredited and they think that it would actually be minimally necessary to take the average testing, testing skills... by an accredited provider of such a service, of course they propose the type of Eurofins laboratory which you certainly... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and then where is it a group of more of the best laboratories in Europe and not that based on our own assessments, in the house method is estimated whether it is a soybean GMO or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[Thank you for your question.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47649	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47650	Excuse me. Thank you for your question. Therefore, the system of laboratories or certification, accreditation of them has been functioning in the Republic of Croatia for years, and it is also transparent, so the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health are empowering laboratories based on accredited procedures that are public and transparent. So in this case it's a whole system of laboratories that checks every step of the certification.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47651	Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Jelkovac, excuse me, dear colleague Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47652	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, we know that European farmers are much more competitive than Croatian farmers because they have been able to use European funds for a long time and that we have information that some countries are particularly creative and then introduce additional measures to support their farmers. It happens that on our market then the surpluses from these other European countries end, not only are surpluses at very low prices but sometimes do not meet quality standards. We see that there are more and more food frauds, that it has become a lucrative business and that the ministry and competent state inspectors have taken steps to intensify official controls. I wonder how this law will actually contribute to strengthening official controls, and what tools will we give our inspections to respond in due time to protect domestic production?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47653	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47654	Thank you, esteemed representative Petyr for your question. Thus, this law, as I have pointed out, extends the area of official controls and to plant health or protection. As you pointed out, the Ministry of Agriculture or the competent State Inspectorate is ultimately checking and intensifying certain actions in accordance with its control plan, the multiannual control plan and the annual risk assessment plan and, in this case, certain targeted controls are also being carried out in the last period to protect from one side of our quality agricultural products, but also in a non-discriminatory way, to check everything that comes from the common EU market, or from third countries. Finally, this law brings improvement and we will implement it through the competent and delegated bodies to define it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47655	And we're going to the last line, dear colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47656	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, it is certainly important that we strengthen the normative framework related to this very important topic, which primarily refers to the health of our fellow citizens because everything we use and through food is regulated this way. However, I am curious whether those who are to be given powers will receive some certificate so that they can be legitimateized and I am also interested in whether we in particular in those regions of the Republic of Croatia dealing exclusively with agricultural activity, we have enough in the network of veterinarians who could now be engaged in this extended activity, and if we do not have any way to provide veterinarians with the possibility that this could actually be done on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47657	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47658	Thank you for your question. Therefore, the labour market is complex on the issue of veterinarians, and that is why the first draft of the law defines a period of 6 months. which we then completed an additional six months. for activities to be carried out in relation to official controls in competent authorities or delegated bodies relating to veterinary purposes. Just in the part of an enhanced module related to university education, the recent period has increased the meaning of education or education, but still, the answer to your question still requires an additional number of veterinarians with initial experience because in some cases even retired veterinarians are involved to carry out these jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47659	Thank you, Secretary of State, we're done with the replicas, so please return to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Agriculture, dear colleague Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47660	Thank you, Mr. President HS, State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. The Committee on Agriculture discussed these two laws as a home working body yesterday at its 25th session. The debate questioned the need to balance official controls on domestic products and products from the EU and third countries, as well as the possibility of stricter monitoring, and pointed out that there must be no different standards for quality control of domestic and foreign products. It is also mentioned, and related to product quality control, especially those coming from third countries, which are treated with pesticides and herbicides that are not allowed in Croatia, asked about possible shifts that would result in greater protection of Croatian agricultural producers and the prevention of such unfair competition. An enquiries were also asked about the implementation of meat control in the butchers, but also the consistency of data from the Unique Register of Domestic Animals and Slaughter Data as it happens in practice that the owner logs out the animal and the slaughterhouse does not report the slaughter, resulting in a large number of so-called animals. floating cattle in the Republic of Croatia. It has been warned of problems with the prevalence of veterinary clinics, resulting in the inaccessibility of veterinary services in certain rural areas. In its reply, the applicant pointed out that this law allows for the implementation of EU Regulation 2017/625, which is ensured precisely in the application of the principle of non-discrimination, or sets the same requirements for all those who place their products on the market. At the entry of the product into the Republic of Croatia, the competent inspection shall be carried out at the border of the competent inspection and shall be carried out and planned in accordance with the risk assessment, while the meat control in the butcheries shall be carried out by veterinary and sanitary inspections. Control of the so-called. floating cattle under the jurisdiction of a veterinary inspection, the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, which makes available all the necessary bases from which it is possible to control the movement of animals. After the debate was held, the Committee on Agriculture unanimously decided to propose HS to hold a united debate on these two draft laws, and we voted in particular on each law and majority of the vote, members of the Committee supported the adoption of both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47661	Thank you, too. We are now going to the debate, the first is the House Movement Representatives' Club and respected colleague, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47662	I would like to thank the Honorable President HS, State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So the aim of the regulation is, we are talking about Regulation 2017/625 that we are harmonising with today is to ensure a harmonised approach with regard to official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of Union legislation in the agricultural food chain. To approach this goal, it is necessary to coordinate the labour model in a way that inspectors act in the same situations in the same way or at least similar way at EU level. This means that at an equal rate they can identify irregularities and withdraw goods from the market, and that contact points share information on identified irregularities at an equal rate. On the trail of this, I am asking my first question today, did any Member State ever warn or deliver a notice, say the Republic of Croatia to withdraw from the market certain products or goods which do not satisfy the conditions and which there are indications that they may end up in the Republic of Croatia except in case of health failure? So let's be realistic, the EU is trying to create a pre-known framework for quality standards by this regulation, and with this related and control procedure to maintain the primate on the presence of foreign products on the Croatian market. However, we cannot do so, and unfortunately we will not be able to stop with this weapon. I'd like to draw attention to point 31 again, Art. 8. A regulation indicating that the identity of the perpetrator of the offence does not necessarily have to be kept in mind as they say or that the competent authorities may nevertheless reveal the outcome of official controls on the identity of the perpetrators of the offence, which results clearly, I sincerely hope that when this law is adopted and that we will be able to know as a public in which trade chains are detected which offences and what they were referring to. As far as I've noticed, it's also stated in the regulation, so that we can absolutely align in that part of the law. We also need to be aware that the quality of the product is also with and without this Regulation, and given the implementation of the regulation is funded by the Member State, and depends exclusively on the equipment of all those involved in these controls, so we are talking about inspectors, laboratories, mechanisms, rapid coordination within individual inspections and others. If inspectors follow the market in such a way as to receive annual reports from the Ministry of Agriculture on the number of applications submitted for support, e.g. in strawberry farming, if they really receive information from customs on how many strawberries are imported, if they are sufficiently informationable and have all the databases available, then we can expect the result. But if that's not the case with and without this law, nothing will change. I would also ask the competent authorities to try to pay maximum attention to the accreditation of our laboratories because as far as I am aware of the situation on the ground when samples are sent outside the Republic of Croatia such analysis takes several months, and during that time they produce free sales and the very effect of control is ultimately zero, because the product is usually not even on the market anymore. I would also ask more frequent and more up-to-date control of control bodies as farmers complain that certain control bodies go into control when they come into surveillance from detail to detail, from detail to detail while others only carry out administrative controls or keeping records. Although the control bodies only control producers from Croatia, it is not right, however, to have such inequalities in the requirements of the control body to the control body. So, no matter how many bodies are authorized and who has any clients and who the competition is to be impartial, quality and consistency to. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to a fact that has long been pointed out in this body, and the Ministry of Agriculture is still difficult to accept. Therefore, in the same introductory part of the Regulation, point 30, respectively. Seven. The regulations read "Subjects subject to national law should have the right to appeal decisions taken by the competent authorities. The competent authorities should inform the entities of this right." Therefore, I again ask the question, which is why it is in art. 23. of this law stated that the ministry's solutions could not be filed? The ministry is also a first-degree body if we talk about solutions that they make, for example. The fishing inspection. Related to Art. 42. The law relating to the sampling of products sold by means of means of distance sales would also be useful to obtain answers from relevant reasons for which the law does not make the order and sampling more clearly defined in a manner prescribed by art. 36. Regulations. Furthermore, for what reason has the decision been made to finance these causes by the State Inspectorate, not according to the articles so far, and depending on the result of the analysis? And in view of the fact that this provision was not in the previous law, I ask the question of how much amount did the State Inspectorate provide for that purpose for 2021, how many samples, and how is it that, based on this fact alone, it was actually defined that the law did not need to provide additional resources, and we are clearly indicated that the new additional funds would have to be provided? Almost every law states to us that there is no need to provide additional funding for law enforcement, and ultimately it turns out that the means for implementing the rules are increasing significantly, but unfortunately no one is paying attention to when the budget is being adopted. It turns out, on the other hand, that we reduce management costs, which is actually the cost of implementing the rules, we release the cost of the economy, and then we don't know where these funds are being invested or where they're going. If the regulation clearly states that the means to implement the regulation are borne by the Member States, and you write to us in the discussion material that there is no need to secure the funds, does this mean that the EU sees something wrong or does this mean that we already have everything in place and we are implementing that model of work in accordance with the existing Law on Official Controls? If that's the case, then why change the existing law in that part? When we talk about the Veterinary Act, I would ask again to move forward with the amendment and addition of the article as soon as possible. 90. The Veterinary Act, which would read as follows: ‘The slaughter of pigs, sheep, goats, poultry, rabbits, farmed game and other animals is permitted as provided for in the Regulation on the holding if these animals do not show signs of impaired condition, and meat and meat products originating in those animals are intended for consumption in their own household and local retail trade according to the Regulation’, so we are talking about slaughtering on the holding. Why do I find that extremely important? So the existing Veterinary Act, which was passed in 2013 Nor does the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act that we have at our second reading allow for this possibility. And it is necessary to enable slaughtering cattle and hooves that are extensively held in the most humane way, which is in a place where they are naturally located or at the nearest possible location that allows both stunning and slaughter in accordance with animal welfare regulations, and not that we send such animals thousands of miles away and most often in inhumane conditions. This example is traced to us in Germany, which, as a Member State, has been granted an exemption from the implementation of the regulation in such a way as to allow the slaughter of extensively held bovine animals outside the slaughterhouses, which, if necessary, is very easy to provide evidence, of course if this proposal is accepted by the legislator. Therefore, arguments based on the understanding of animal welfare have existed since 2009. where in the introductory part of the provision no. 1099/2009 states, therefore, that Europe's citizens expect at least minimum rules on their well-being to be respected during animal slaughter. In certain areas, attitudes towards animals also depend on national concepts. Can we start thinking like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47663	Second debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ljubomir Kolarek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47664	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a decision on official controls and other official activities implemented in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products similar to the Veterinary Law shall be adopted in its legal order, EU legislation relating to veterinary and food safety. As this is often stressed, the area of food regulations is almost entirely regulated by the European regulation that while the smaller segment is in the domain of national regulations. The law harmonizes with the new European legislation on official controls establishing at European level a simpler, more efficient, integrated food safety system based on stricter veterinary and phytosanitary standards and the European Commission has been given wider powers to halt the sale and transport of risk food in Member States that are not able to prevent this on their own as well as a stronger penalty for food fraud. Food control in many countries makes it difficult for the fragmented legislation of multiple jurisdiction and ineffectiveness of supervision, monitoring and application of the law. The effective national food and legislation control system is crucial for ensuring the health and safety of the local population as well as for ensuring safety and quality food in international trade. News in the final proposal of the Law on Official Controls is also the introduction of the possibility of causing goods sold through means of communication at a distance and measures in the case of established disagreements, the provisions on the system of official and reference laboratories in the field of plant health and plant protection and the procedures for the registration and approval of establishments in business with food and provisions relating to the import of official controls of consignments, animals and food of animal origin which are also deleted from the existing veterinary law. Official controls are carried out, I stress, at all stages of production, processing and distribution of food or food for animals and on animals and products of animal origin. The national inspectorate shall delegate to veterinary organisations the activities of official controls on food of animal origin and shall also be authorised by natural persons for certain business activities of official activity as a matter of public interest. The club of HDZ representatives has submitted a written amendment, it is technically in the form of an article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So you're erasing yourself. 22. Because it's really technical. As far as the Veterinary Act is concerned, I will repeat once again, what we have heard from the applicants, the novelty is in the final proposal for laws amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act the possibility of authorising natural persons and doctors of veterinary medicine to carry out certain official activities as professional matters of public interest, for example. for preventive vaccinations, diagnostic and other tests to protect animal health as well as business measures for the detection, control, prevention and eradication of infectious or artificial diseases. All future contracts of entrusted transactions to delegated bodies will be concluded at 7 instead of 5 years, also in place of the previous 2 years of working experience in the profession, the appointment of an authorised veterinarian shall take 6 months. work in the profession, however, to carry out official controls operations independently entrusted only to delegated bodies as legal entities in which authorised veterinarians operate, an additional condition of 6 months has been introduced. work under professional supervision in delegated bodies, which is very important and important. In line with EU and EU legislation changes. It is necessary to make adjustments and corrections to the national law, primarily to entrust certain tasks to delegated bodies, instead of to the control authorities so far, the possibility of delegation of certain tasks and natural persons is introduced, the novelty of issuing certificates for consignments of animals or products of animal origin which are now entrusted to individual authorised persons. In addition to the rules on food, this law introduces amendments to the references to European legislation, which, meanwhile, took place in the area of the labelling of equidae, unconventional movements of pets. In addition, the establishment of a State Inspectorate, a veterinary inspection from the Ministry of Agriculture, moved to the State Inspectorate and, accordingly, the amendments to this law had to be made. In the end, I have to say one thing to me personally as a person who has worked as a public inspector, as a veterinary inspector, I am a little surprised that professional, effective and rational exercise of official controls has been introduced into this law. In fact, as a veterinarian who spent a good part of his professional career as a veterinary inspector, this tells me that so far we have not done our jobs professionally, efficiently and rationally. In this way, I must protect my profession, and I believe that all inspectors, whether they are veterinary, agricultural, sanitary or any other tasks, are professional, quality, conscientious and responsible. The HDZ Club will support both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47665	Let's move on. Now it's the Green-Left Block's Club of Representatives and dear colleague William Matula, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47666	Thank you, Mr. President. State Secretary, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues, as I said, we got in the meantime as if people had suddenly been bold and started sending us more and more important documents. I asked you a question about who should actually be accredited and in what way? You state secretaries have answered me that there is a procedure for this in Croatia, however, that I have just asked a question why such a system of laboratories such as Eurofins can give accreditation and check the level and degree of level. Another very important thing is that you probably know it better than I do because I'm saying it yesterday and today I'm familiar with it, and that's that we have an extremely large average number of laboratories now that I'm talking about monitoring pesticide residues. Such a high number means, which means only in Zagreb 5 laboratories, throughout Croatia 15, and the Portuguese and the Spanish who have so many laboratories are possibly some comparison. But let's imagine this Germany that is so great, and not to mention that in terms of chemistry it's long been a leader in the world and by the number of Nobel laureates and by the number of top researchers and without that great reward, imagine they have a system so arranged to believe in their 3 laboratories, but these 3 laboratories are really impeccable and now it's just a matter of how the samples get there safely and in a good way and all that comes back in time. I've talked to both colleagues here and here, so they tell me among other people who have this experience that one of the big problems between the O.P.G. and the people who are doing this, which is that the ministry never did, at least I didn't hear this one try to make in that sense education to know how to prepare people for such inspections, to know what they need and in what way, that they're not in some kind of cramp, and then finally that inspection of those unfortunate people they run into and that they're rigorously and drastically punished, there were already speeches about it, without the possibility of appeal. That this poor woman then pays these impossible penalties for them, and then she has to find out through a top lawyer that there's an administrative procedure and that's why she's drowning and bothering herself while she's here right now I'm going to jump to the wind, say, but one Veterinary Institute, a public institute that has 200 million kunas of money annually, and where one respected academicist is, who is claimed by the vets, here I'm asking the question here when the first debate was, which is why there's not really people getting to know each other, now that they're being bold, the data is coming. Of course, the man has reported all of this to USKOK and DORH, this is about the fact that the huge amount of money a year goes to this institute that he has the right to do so, and these public funds are used for personal gain at the expense of what they say is agricultural progress. And just through agriculture, they claim that much of the money is washed away. Just look at how the same people in the boards are always the same. The current member of the board of directors is the head of the Department of Veterinary at the Ministry of Agriculture, which is in Kumski, I was not told my name, nor was I able to go now to check the name of the lady, but claims that she is in close contact with academics Cvetnic and that he designed the system. At the same time, Minister Fuchs supports the illegal management council system, nominates only two members, although he would be entitled as founder to 3. And so the former head of the Veterinary Authority was caught at the Institute by academics Cvetnic as a credit for all the contracts they gave the institute, there are about 80 million kunas per year. But we got, say, a PCR test for African swine fever and another disease that I don't know about right now, you'll probably know it, preparing a sample, and all of a sudden this is detailed, and it comes to 350 kunas, which is certainly for cattlemen who struggle and torture from day to day and listen and, and on the agricultural show, we also have the opportunity to look at that agony and people who moan, and this whole story here for some top scientists and big, big experts turns out to be extremely luxuriant and probably for some more individuals who stand there. As for that meat, among other things, the question they told us about why so much declaration, that Croatian meat, the meat of Croatian farms, then especially for Baby Beef and so on, this one just doesn't know what it is anymore. They claim there should be one mark for everyone. What has been said here and in the first debate, and it has been said on the board, also people warn us again about how we are very much looking at the one we encounter from our own, but the EU goods don't go through any control, I simply can't believe it's nothing, but I believe it's less control. They also say that, by law, this defined amount of sample in sampling is not good because there cannot be one kilo of sample, for example, thousands of tons, which seems completely logical. The same information that I didn't know about, it really surprised me now, maybe you know that only GMO seeds can't be imported. They claim to me here that, I don't know, I'm going to ask you to answer that if it's true information, that only GMO soybean seeds can't be imported, but otherwise GMO soybean and GMO corn means the same corn seed, but yes, that corn and such soybeans can be imported. I don't know what to do then, is then you really feed the cattle this one in that... Then it's like, some thing you've failed us and I'm personally really amazed and then I fully understand why it's claimed that what I told you at the beginning is that some labs of ours that get certificates based on some inhaus method and ours, how we're willing to tell it, top experts and labs that get it, but they determine whether it's a GMO soy or it's not a GMO soy, whether it's GMO corn or not, but they don't want to subdue to an accreditation of such a top institute or network of institutes like that Eurofins. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'll try to add probably in an individual debate, but I'm amazed at the amount of material that we've received at the last minute right from important institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47667	Thank you. We're going to a discussion of the SDP's Club of Representatives and the esteemed colleague Grman Kizivat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47668	I would like to thank President HS, the honourable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The system related to official controls and inspections has been established and is in line with EU regulations as early as 2013. The adoption of the State Inspectorate Act allowed all inspections from the Ministry of Agriculture to be transferred to that institution. The law was adopted in 2018 and entered into force in 2019. We're in 2021 today. And we're still coordinating. In order for the public and entrepreneurs to gain insight into the new system to be established, the proposal of the Law on Official Controls and the Proposal for a Veterinary Act should be observed in parallel. We continue to argue that the end result of these changes is a completely chaotic and complicated system which will make business difficult for our farmers and entrepreneurs in the agricultural food sector and only generate additional costs. From Art. 2. The final draft law shows that most EU regulations date back to 2019, on the other hand, in the final draft of the law on page 79 on official controls, e-consultation for the law in question was in the period from 20 May to 20 June 2020. Now I ask you, what's been waiting almost a year? And then when we object that he's late, that there's chaos in the Ministry of Agriculture, then you claim that the opposition only complains. So you're telling yourself that information in the Final Bills. And in order for there to be no confusion, I'm going to repeat the cost-related question. The following is responsible for our first reading of the law: The implementation of this law does not require additional budgetary resources compared to those previously established by the current Law on Official Controls. In relation to the financial impact on legal and natural persons, this law does not provide for additional costs as well as obligations. And yet they claim we probably didn't just get along well. We are also interested in the cost of implementing the official control system at the annual level, how much of the total funding from the state budget is provided to all the competent authorities? We demand that the government deliver detailed financial impact assessments of the impact of how much of it are planned by means of official controls in the state budget by the competent authorities and what is the impact assessment for entrepreneurs at the annual level? Only in this way can we gain insight into the total cost of carrying out official controls in the Republic of Croatia and we will be able to assess whether these costs will result in an impact on the increase in the price of agricultural and food products. As regards the system of official controls, we believe that it is in the public interest but also all stakeholders in the food supply chain, making a single database that would refer to this area. The first step in creating the base is to publish a single list of all legal and natural persons to whom authorisation has been granted and to carry out official controls and other official activities entrusted. Many legal and physical persons need simple access to information. It is now found in numerous non-binding bases, sometimes even updated. The Ministry of Agriculture has already had to prepare one such base or application in order to transparency and increase the efficiency of the official controls system. For this reason, we propose an amendment to Art. The 5th final bill. We are in favour of public publication of procedures and guides for the conduct of official controls and relevant checklists and instructions. Their production or modernisation should pass public consultation in order to make the prepared documents clear to all and the controls themselves are faster and less inconceivable. Witnesses that inspectors and authorised persons in certain cases have a subjective approach or are acting differently in similar situations, leading to doubts about regularity and impartiality. By public publication of all documents on the basis of which official controls would be carried out, the system itself would be fairer and would reduce the suspicion of opportunism. In the same way with that goal, we propose amendments to the article. 6th and 7th, requesting public release of documents. I'm still applying to the Veterinary Act. In the light of the law, the proposal states that we are also in line with the EU directives. It's unclear why the law hasn't been prepared before. What particularly disturbed us during the first reading was the reduction of the conditions for a professional authorised veterinarian, from 2 years to 6 months. On the other hand, it is also possible to apply lighter sanctioning measures to sanction authorised veterinarians with minor non-compliance in the performance of entrusted tasks. Well, that's great. Farmers and entrepreneurs, fines, fees, parafiscal imposes and those who carry out controls are milder measures. I think the message is more clear than anyone. Even expected. The current Veterinary Act states that a veterinarian who has at least 2 years of working experience in the profession, licence and has passed a state expert examination for an authorised veterinarian may be appointed as an authorised veterinarian. By amending and supplementing the law, you have proposed to reduce the work experience in the profession to only 6 months. You now state in the final draft of the law that the proposal has been completed because a large number of MPs have expressed concern that the planned reduction could affect the independent conduct of official controls. The new proposal is so-called. Six plus six and only three months ago. When I first read, on my replica that it was too short a deadline, the minister said the profession agreed that it was six months. Just enough. But we're glad that you've seen the failure and that you're correcting it now. What's nice about the whole story is the fact that you're putting it on the page. 21 of the Veterinary Act. Comments and suggestions and opinions which the applicant does not accept. There's a paradox right there, gentlemen. You led us not to accept our proposal to six months. It's too short a deadline and then you defend your position to change it now and tell us that our remarks aren't good and that's what you're changing right now. Gentlemen, some things don't seem right here. I don't just know why you don't accept that the opposition proposal is sometimes good. You deny yourself because you don't accept our objection, and then you change the same thing. You know what, gentlemen of the Department of Agriculture? In your final draft of the law, there is an amendment and on the other hand, someone, does not read in the ministry what you write in the final bill because you know, we read everything. We believe that the work experience is too short to carry out quality and sufficient professional tasks that an authorised veterinarian has from controls on holdings, farms, livestock fairs, animal exhibitions through the implementation of the prescribed measures to detect, prevent and control infectious or artificial diseases, through official controls of food and certification. We are aware that a veterinary study from 5 years of age has been extended to 6 and that veterinarians who have completed their studies under the new study programme are likely now to have higher competences. We're not insisting on the two-year work experience we've had so far, but we're proposing our amendment on that as well. And finally, to mention and to point out, and I've already said that several times here, the Ministry of Agriculture is late with all the laws being passed, there's chaos in the Ministry of Agriculture. And in order to support that, I'm giving you the fact that I've told you here several times already. The Food Act adopted 1. 1. In 2019, he is still not in line with the transfer of an inspection from the Ministry of Agriculture to the State Inspectorate and I do not know when he will be so I wonder how long the Ministry of Agriculture is thinking and planning to coordinate? I wonder if we can explain how many other laws and sublegal acts should be brought into line with the law adopted in 2018? And in the end, will the Ministry of Agriculture also make one single impact assessment that is otherwise binding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47669	We've come to the end of the club debates, so now we're going to individual debates, first of all is respected colleague Mariana Petir, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47670	... Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] In recent weeks, we have been discussing several laws that touch directly or indirectly the area of agriculture. In these discussions, there was almost no representative who did not in any way refer to the issue of official controls and with the aim of making great efforts to bring order to the agricultural market. These discussions could make it clear that we need well-planned and measurable controls, based on which the authorities are able to react hastily to any and least disturbance, because every disorder that passes under our radar puts Croatian farmers who earn their bread by respecting all prescribed standards. These amendments bring us into line with the European legislation on official controls aimed at establishing a simpler, more efficient integrated food safety system based on stricter veterinary and phytosanitary standards, and the European Commission has broad powers to stop the sale and transport of risk food in Member States that are not able to prevent these behaviours and sanction food fraud. I believe that we ourselves are able to bring order to our market and that the European Commission in Croatia will certainly not have to play the role of police officers. Of course, strong political will and a well-compromised system are needed to do so, and official controls on domestic products and products coming from the EU market or from third countries need to be levelled, but stricter monitoring needs to be introduced and products coming from other countries meet the same standards that must be met and Croatian products. An explanation of the applicant that the implementation of the European Regulation and the Official Control Act themselves will ensure that the principle of non-discrimination is applied and that all controls and consignments of animals and products from other countries and those of domestic origin must be carried out in a non-discriminatory manner, in itself not sufficient assistance to our farmers. In particular, in competition with European producers who have less cost of production because for many years they have been using European support to improve their production and whose countries through various measures have designed ways to position domestic production on the market by providing them with this competitive advantage, it will be difficult for our farmers to deal with this stream of cheap imported pork or apples that are falsely declared as Croatian. What we need to understand is that food fraud is a source of very large profits and that companies involved in fraud precalculate the risk of possible fraud detection and calculate that they will pay some fine and then continue to work as the old one. Food fraud has become so common that it affects not only the competitiveness of European farmers, but also Croatian farmers also have an impact on food health and consumer health. Therefore, I think that the Republic of Croatia should use all the tools available to control and stop all shipments of non-compliant food on customs means entering the Croatian market, and the offenders should be severely punished at least at the level of illegally acquired profits. In this gambling game, the competitiveness of domestic production and thus achieving the objectives of self-sufficiency in food production, as well as the health regularity of food and consumer protection, and the real question is how to find a balance there and not be discriminatory about what comes from the EU, which comes from third countries and, on the other hand, protect domestic production and its own consumers. Therefore, I think it is very important to invest additionally in improving the existing control system so that it is effective and to prevent the entry into our market of non-compliant products, especially those at dumped and predatory prices. And regarding the evidence of the proposing who says that the law should regulate official GMO-related activities, which is why GMOs are mentioned in the law, I would like to point out that I believe that the law should have prescribed that the Republic of Croatia is a country free of GMOs because it is and we want it to remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47671	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's her first colleague, Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47672	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. And at the last reading I actually set you up like I'm going to ask you, and I actually really like what you were saying and then that you should be clearer and rules for, say, importing meat, you said that those 48 hours would be going on. How's that working out for you? How'd you get on with it? And what I cited as a young potato where the profession itself and the manufacturers say that it is illogically suffering on board for three, four weeks and then it goes under the label young, etc., so is there any sublegal acts that bring it in as soon as possible, which I see that you're pushing about with the meat and are actually more control inspection work because I think there's the key to everything? Thank you. And of course protecting domestic production, there's no dispute about it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47673	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47674	Thank you very much, colleague Maric, for your replica. A new category was introduced through the law on unfair commercial practice that we discussed some time ago, which is actually a special treatment of sensitive products that include both meat and milk and eggs and those products that we can say are easily corrupt, thus the ministry said would have come out to meet the sector to protect it more strongly. I still think that we should insist on introducing short supply chains because this would be the most effective protection of domestic production, but for this we should create conditions because economies should be equipped, which means they should have additional financial support so that they can send these products directly from the agricultural economy to the market. Today this is not the case, especially when we talk about milk that has to pass pasteurization or some other products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47675	Thank you. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47676	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Petyr. It seems to me that the key thought of your intervention was exactly how to find a balance for the sustainability of Croatian agriculture, for the protection of Croatian consumers, but also of course respecting the principle of non-discrimination, market rules. You mentioned in this context that manufacturers from other EU member states are given a certain advantage because they have benefited from European funds longer, I would add there may be a law of numbers. So the longer and the bigger the market, the more they act and act and, of course, the cheaper the products can be. Here, since you started to elaborate on how to find that balance somewhere near the end of your intervention I wanted to ask you a question and give you the opportunity to further elaborate that concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47677	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47678	Thank you very much, counsel Stier. So in any case, I think that the area where we should never be saving and we shouldn't turn every kuna is exactly the area of official controls that are important to strengthen at those problematic points. Therefore, in addition to veterinary inspection, send other inspections to problem points and resolve matters immediately as non-compliant products enter the market. I have data for 2019 that show that every fifth controlled product was inconsistencies when it comes to food. This is where extra virgin olive oil is preceded, where there is fraud, honey, ground meat, non-alcoholic drinks, pumpkin oil. So there's room for improvement. It is important that we prescribe the quality of our own products, mark them and then compare what comes to our market through these quality standards and thus eliminate all that does not meet the standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47679	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, and we'll listen to our esteemed colleague, Nikshu Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47680	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary with an associate, so here we are killing two united, a Regulation of the European Directive of 2017, so it should have been in effect on 14 December 2019 and it is not disputed that control of the food of agricultural products that is of immense importance, but I will return to you a little bit in practice because these controls have been carried out around and today and here in the debate they say we should send this control, and I should go back a little bit and ask the question how many agricultural inspectors we have on the number of agricultural holdings, what are the salaries of these agricultural inspectors and what are their terms? I personally became convinced that they were not well paid, and they must control an agricultural company that imports food that may have a billion kuna per year on the balance sheet, and some agricultural inspector should wage war with it for 6,000 kuna. Not to mention their terms, not to mention especially now that the agricultural inspection, the veterinary inspection joined the State Inspectorate, and according to some of my information, this State Inspectorate led by Andrija Mikulić, I don't think they even had an office office a few months ago. And the question is basically who will control it all together, we will accept these regulations, you will vote them out, it is not disputed because there are more or less good things about control and food safety, but here I would ask the question of real inspections and the work of those agricultural inspectors, veterinary inspectors and health inspectors on the ground when you see that there are few and when you see that in some way they are practically physically not able to control everything. The other thing is, the easiest thing to do is to get that right-of-food certificate, and I'm not sure that we're going through our markets today and pick up samples if we need flashes, cabbages, strawberries, so let's see if the rest of the pesticides are respected, and that's the thing if we want to deal with the welfare of all of us who consume these products that we have in some way real inspection control and that these laws and regulations that we're going to accept that they are ultimately on the ground. My colleague Martina said more or less everything about our grudges that we had in our first reading and some amendments that we're going to send to the second reading, but now I'm going to commit that it's illogical for me to be practically 2 years late with this directive which is of immense importance to us because it controls food and food for domestic animals, and I think we shouldn't have that much focus on some of these decimals and on the distribution of work whether it's going to have a veterinary administration that stays in the Ministry of Agriculture or if there's going to be some jurisdiction from the State Inspectorate. The important thing is that we put it on paper that it's being implemented on the ground, and you yourself at the Ministry of Agriculture know that it's not being implemented. And not to mention the organic farming that we did not know until before today if we still had a control station registered in Slovenia to control organic agriculture in Croatia and not subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And who will answer tomorrow if this organic product is lifted from the shelf and said it was not produced in accordance with the Agriculture Act, and we in Croatia cannot in any way prosecute this company because it is registered in Slovenia. And lastly, what I'm going to say is irrelevant now in this division is whether there's going to be something left in the Veterinary Authority or the State Inspector. What's important is that these laws are implemented. As I said in your seed law, Article 16 which was not good, I think that we are late in all things and that the question that these agricultural and veterinary inspectors will be able to control when we look at the amount of imports and how much production we fall in all our activities in all our agricultural sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47681	And we're going to the last debate that's been reported, dear colleague Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47682	So, based on this letter that I received about the situation at the Croatian Veterinary Institute, which is also talking about the Veterinary Chamber and the Veterinary Faculty. For me who am certainly a complete layman, but about this I remember in that first reading of this law is Mr. Kolarek this that the question of how it is possible for only six months to gain so much experience and that it is enough for a man after that to work as an inspector and that he could somehow gain that experience in six months at all. Now, a Solomonian solution has been found, and we've heard about it on the board, and that's what the man in the Veterinary Chamber told us about, but that's still the solution. Since veterinarians are missing on the one hand, it is certainly a question of how we came into this situation and in order to make up for it is necessary to remain in this provision of the law at once, but these young veterinarians who have no experience will be monitored for 6 months and that is the solution now. I can understand that it is, that we have now come into such a situation that we cannot do otherwise, I believe. That we teach vets and that they not only as our doctors medics but that veterinarians as much as this friend of the daughter who finished and who doesn't work in the wind, who believe it with great love enrolled, studied and everything and was eventually kicked out of that job, not because she wasn't good. And I'm glad she gave up that at least she didn't go out, but she's telling me about how many of her top, top-notch young people are running out. They're not happy there. Well, they don't have them there, I don't know what kind of life they're in, and I don't know who they are, and I don't know who they are, and I don't know what kind of life they're hanging out with anybody in particular. It's that in the barn they're with cattle, they're around, they're doing their job, but they're missing people, and they're all going to when they learn these things, so be safe, they're going to come back, they're going to come back for sure. However, the system I'm talking about here I don't know I'd just like to check if, are you a member of the board of directors of this Croatian Veterinary Institute? Is it? Or you can't answer that, so ask these state ones. Because here she tells me that this manager is the head of the Veterinary Authority, so I thought it was you, uh, no, no, no, no answer to that question, that's not the point. In any case, of course you can't answer that, it's too obvious. No. I wanted to ask you if it's true because of course I have to do this here on the one hand may look like a meal, but this is justified here, the man says he owns a lot of documentation, that he's reported everything to DORH and USKOK, and that he claims there's a way that huge public money is being translated in a very sophisticated way into private pockets, into private pockets. And I said here, there's that 200 million kuna of that public money at the end, he, he shows himself, it's a matter of money from the Veterinary Institute, as his own means. I wanted to ask you because here he claims that Minister Fuchs supports, the minister, this illegal composition of that council that has the right to 3 members because they are founders, they have the right to 3, but they have 2 and obviously know how, these very keen minds that are not subject to some external European inspections that are, we know them what these European inspections are, and they are too rigorous for us. And there's our youngsters going there, working in such inspectorates out there, working under them, and what I assure you as soon as we get back to the climate, they'll all come back because just for the sake of the climate you've created and gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47683	Thank you. You have two replicas, you don't have to put on a mask yet. First is colleague Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47684	Well, here's to fellow Matula, we often meet on board and on these round tables. Do you have any idea who's going to educate those vets, now it's moved from 6 months to 12, and it's going to be a paper signing, but who's going to educate them, do you have any idea who's going to educate them, how and how the existing inspectors are going to do it, and I've worked with them a lot of people who are full of hats and jobs and objects that they have because they're a little bit, even with their working hours, they can educate someone to become their boss tomorrow? Short, crying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47685	Thank you. I understand, of course, that I'm not that expert, and I can't imagine it at all, I understand that they won't even know it, I don't even know what to do, but they'll be watching them, so I guess in that way if these young people do something wrong, and it's six months that they'll be supervised, and it's the law, and then they'll tell them not to do it like this, and then they'll suddenly get this extra experience, and it's claimed, of course, that it's now in this advanced college program because it's a year longer that they get all the practice and everything alive, but here, when you talk to those vets, they say it's completely far from the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47686	And another replica of my colleague, Grman Kizvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47687	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Matula, I didn't plan to replicate, but you encouraged me when you asked me a question for the table of gentlemen from the ministry, and I've been feeling like I've been asking questions to the Ministry of Agriculture from us who are sitting in the Committee on Agriculture and these discussions to address questions, but we can't get any concrete answers. So I'm curious now whether you have this feeling like I have this monologue all the time without an answer, then they keep their monologue, again without any response or finally, maybe there's some possibility in yours, that one day we might conclude a dialogue with the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47688	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47689	I agree with you, colleague. I think it's up to us and it's the position of the opposition that we ask such questions, that in particular, at the moment that so many veterinarians were forced to go out, young people who were able to, when because of so little livestock production at some point, and we listened here, or on the board, we listened to the board, how it came to be that there was only one station or some private veterinary station that provided services because it just didn't pay off, huge space with relatively little livestock. However, these people who dared to do so, they have no opportunity at all to get to that place and I understand, here I asked why they are not informed, so they themselves do not appear because they are in fear of their jobs as they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47690	Thank you. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break by 11 o'clock and 30 minutes. Then we will discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, the proposing representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. It's very few reported so it's possible that we'll end up quite quickly, so we'll take a break again, and at 13 o'clock, there'll be club positions and independent representatives. I'll see you. It's 10.58 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47775	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:32 AM]] It is next: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 44; Proposer is representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the motionary like to give an additional explanation, attorney Anka Mrak-Taritash? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47776	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. The working name of this could be "Double is twice". So, we now have more than a year, there somewhere in February of last year, we became aware of the fact that the crown is here, that the subject of the Crown and Covid is not elsewhere and in some distant country, but is here and then, in the former assembly, we have launched an initiative for amendments and additions, or for additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which, of course, the ruling majority refused and I will not say that I have little power, but I'm afraid that even here won't change a few things. What was that about? There was a word that when you look at today a little experience is extremely important that those who have been in contact with the infected, who have been in direct contact, go into self-insulation. For self-insulation, according to the applicable law, which, of course, did not prejudge that we would have these proportions indeed, one, one monster, I would have called it that was defined that in the case of two weeks of isolation, the compensation for who goes into that isolation would be 2125 kuna. And what did we have on the case? We had a case where he didn't sign up at all. That the people for this fee did not report that they were and were potentially spreaders of the disease at all. That it was.../incomprehensible... so that fear of reduced income was greater than fear of Covid's contagion. And then we went with the bill, we go again because what we need to know, we need to know that these things don't happen to someone else, that the crown, or Covid-19, isn't happening in some parallel universe and some parallel country, but it just happens here with us and we don't see any reason that during self-insulation, you're not 100% sick in a way that's working. I remind you that, at that time, there was a problem for doctors who had been infected at work and who had to prove that they had been infected at work, so that according to another regulation they could provide that compensation. I'm sure and it seems absolutely to us that what's the subject is that it's important that no one is going to have a small fee for self-insulation so that it doesn't give him any reason to shut up any contact because it's much more important that we know all the contacts. And I'm really not, and I'm not pretending to be an expert on this area, but I'm reading and looking around, say, New Zealand, so they have specific conditions, but New Zealand is, I was watching this show where the epidemiologists said that they have everything under control because they know exactly all the contacts, and they know exactly where the potentially new focal point is going to be, and then, of course, this story that we have, which is that people don't report contact because of the reduction in compensation they're going to have, was no reason. And then when we read the text of the law and then we are in the text of the law, that is, in the provision of art. 55 found one illogicality and this illogicality, I can't understand it, which is that people who donate organs and living tissue to the benefit of another also don't have the right to 100% of the pay base during temporary incompetence due to organ and tissue transplants. So this, I'm convinced it's illogical, I'm convinced that it's lost somewhere along the way, and we somehow think that this illogicalness is removed, or that even those who donate organs and tissues, are also entitled to 100% salary compensation. So, two things are, one is during self-insulation because you've been in contact with the infected, the other, so that there won't be that illogicality associated with organ and tissue transplants. So, I'm a lot of years old, I've had a lot of experience and I'm aware of the fact that even this time they won't accept these amendments, or the addition of the law. Why? You could discuss that at some other level. But I'm asking you from this pay phone nicely two things, first thing, think carefully and see. So, we're going to live this whole year with the crown, behind this crown or covid-19 can come covid-28 or anything else he can't reason why someone won't admit that he's been in contact because he'll have a reduction in the fee during self-insulation. And this is about organ transplants you give the first time you're going to change that law and return it, remove that illogicality, so something that's elemental empathy to each other should be in the bill. I kind of hope dies last, I kind of hope that maybe until the vote that's changed your mind tomorrow, but if you don't change your mind I ask you to take good care of the first amendment of the law about the transplant, but about the subject of self-insulation and that people go into self-insulation and that we encourage them to go because that way all those badges that they wear, and that say that they think of others, that self-insulation actually think of others, think of everyone around you. And this disease and this really monster that pointed to that problem and those facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47777	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, Mrs. Andreja Maric's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47778	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Here I was getting ready for this point, but I went from reverse to all these proposals of mandatory health insurance laws. 12 o'clock. In 2008, it's written nicely. 26th century. 3. Therefore, it is clearly mentioned that the right to compensation for wages is subject to persons who are isolated as callinators or due to the occurrence of an infection in its environment or those who are unable to work because of the transplant of living tissue and organs in favour of another insured person of the institution. After that, there was a series of amendments and additions to the law and in 2009, '10, '11, '12, '13. And where did this organ transplant thing go along the way? I mean, I just couldn't figure it out any further and find out why it came out. You must have studied it even more in detail, so here's where it got stuck in your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47779	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47780	Thank you very much for asking. So, the first reason why we went to the amendment or supplement of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act was self-insulation related to the Crown or Covid-19 and that was the first reason, because then, I can remind you, so one of the first questions of Minister Beros was related to healthcare professionals because they have to prove that they received a disease at work to get 100% compensation because they are in self-insulation. These first questions were and of course there was a total surprise for those two weeks you get a fee of 2,100, a little more than 2,100 kuna. And then the provision of the Health Insurance Act that defines it is an article. 55th and then when you read the article in detail. 55th, you see this is gone. Why is it gone, what moment is gone, what was the motive? Surprise in the World So that's the elemental thing that should be. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47781	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47782	Thank you. Well, here's colleague Mrak Taritash, first of all, I'm glad you started this initiative, and secondly, how possibly if we had a situation that had not been declared a state of emergency, that this Parliament did not decide by Article. 17. A constitution that should have been in my opinion. If we have a situation to prescribe measures that seriously affect human rights limits, from labour rights, rights to movement, etc., that these measures are justified and justified because they are here to prevent the spread of the infection. So how is it possible that people who go into self-insulation because of the provision that the state has prescribed don't get full compensation because it's not just about their question and the issue of protecting their health? but a question of general public well-being? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47783	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47784	Thank you very much. So, I'm kind of always trying to be as reasonable as possible, and I understand that the crown is something that, or covid-19, no one could prepare, and I understand that we all thought together in our memory that it was happening somewhere else and that it would not come to Europe and to us at any moment. Equally so remember those first lockdown where we were if someone had said we were standing over one foot in front of an open window 24 hours a week, we'd all do it because it was a fear you didn't have people around. And I watched a little bit, so we went with the proposal of this law on March 13, 2020, when we had seen some things. We've seen that the crown is there, we've seen that she won't go with a magic wand, we've seen it last, and we've seen the problems that are. And the problem that was, so you've opened up another group of problems that have arisen further. I can remind you of those ideas to track phones [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47785	Thank you. Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, the Dark Taritash. In your presentation, you have repeatedly referred to the question of the relations of the majority and the minority in the Assembly, which are accepted or not, and there is, of course, sometimes a political struggle, and that logic today is not much different than the one that was before when you were in office, here we were in opposition. However, the opposition has one of its own roles as a corrective factor of the idea it sends that sometimes they will find themselves in a legislative proposal tomorrow or that the public knows, however, is of course a prerequisite that the opposition believes in being present in the Parliament. We in this proposal see there are more MPs from the majority than from the opposition, and I think it's quite democratic to really see it already while the campaign is also being discussed with opposition proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47787	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47788	Thank you very much. So, in your question, you touched other things, and I'm going to start from the end that it happened to have decided to put this law on a plenary session a month ago or that it decided to put in a month like some others I'm sure there would be a lot more interested. So, we're about a week before the local elections, even I'm in on it, and I prayed because I was in Dubrava and it took me a while to come because somehow I thought that the first and second points would still cause a bigger debate because when we discussed the first reading, I think we discussed it sometime by 4:00 p.m. So we find ourselves in some conditions and we know that people are either directly involved in local elections because they have the opportunity to be chosen or indirectly help them or anything else. So, I think it would be much more correct if it decided to take two weeks to take a break, but what's there. We're discussing today. But this relationship between the ruling and the opposition when we don't change it will not be ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47789	Thank you. Mr. Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47790	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Dark Taritash, I can't agree with one part of your findings where you said you sent this bill back in the spring of last year. At the time, there was the first wave of an epidemic of the coronary virus and you say people didn't report their contacts because of a reduced fee that was the reason. I don't think it's that at that time the reason was, all the contacts checked in and people had a terrible fear of the coronary virus because it really didn't even know how it was going to end. It's only later in the summer that we can say that when the second wave started, that's when people calculated and said don't report me or let's say that I wasn't close by for a few minutes and so on. At first, however, it was a real fear of disease. And I don't think 99% of the people knew that the fee would be 50% lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47791	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47792	Thank you very much for your question. So now we're already that's what I'd say a year and a half went through all phases. I had a crown, and the moment I got a call from an epidemiologist, he didn't ask me for any single contact. Not for one single contact. The fact is I got out of self-insulation, but my husband who had before had sat on the phone and informed his contacts that he had a crown. So, we've been through all the stages, and we don't know until there's a nation's high fissure until it lasts. You're a doctor, I'm not, but I'm just listening and I'm trying to make sense of it. To me, I'm absolutely sure the reason why someone doesn't go into self-insulation can't be that reduced fee, it can't be. So what has shown the experience of some other countries is that when the message we send is reduced contact, handwashing and disinfection and wearing masks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47793	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Would anyone like to take a word from this committee's reporters? No, I'm opening a debate, clubs first, Mr. Karlic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47794	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and here we have before us the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which was sent almost a year ago because of the spread of the new Coronal Virus in Croatia, which has brought not only Croatia but the whole world into a situation where there has never been a truly one new virus, a new pandemic has led to great fear and uncertainty, and here we now see after a year almost a year and a half to change the virus, to mutate, that new waves are actually coming into this virus. The question is whether it will end quickly, whether it will already be in a year or at the end of the year, it may disappear. Different experts are actually different and informing us about it, and we're here because of one, one small change in actually that bill that was sent in, here a year ago precisely because of this.../incomprehensible/... compensation for those who are self-insulating for some 2,125 kuna, right? What I'm saying is that at this time, when there has already been a third virtual wave, which is here after the end of where there has been a large number of people and in Croatia, and of course in many European countries, and also in the world where some have reached 70%, and we will very quickly probably be the same over 50, 55% where a significant number of people have been over the coronary virus, where much has become known, where we have started to behave more responsibly in our contacts and relationships and to care for our health. I think somehow this bill now, after more than 12 months, is losing a little bit of the importance it may have had or a desire to actually help those who are self-insulating to have one better compensation. What should be pointed out, which is important to say that those people who are on the front line of the battlefield mean doctors, nurses, medical staff and non-medical staff in health care, maids, waitresses and that.../incomprehensible/...l does not apply, means that they have according to the Labour Act that regulates the pay full amount if they mean infection, if they are in self-insulation so that we have already avoided one part of those who were in self-insulation. On the other hand, during this year, the Croatian Government has strongly stood by all workers, along with the private sector, with all those at risk of operating with, so that only for wages for 680,000 workers on the account, it has paid 10 billion kuna in support for workers, but also for other costs of those companies that have had problems during the coronary crisis, which has actually helped and reduced exactly this problem that Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash has listed here and actually made this proposal. What is also important to say is that when we talk about the problem of sickness or the amount of number of illnesses one of the priorities of each insurance company, it is so that the HZZO would detimise the sick or reduce the number of those who are on sick leave, and in our country it is quite large, and it seems often and unwarranted and with a lot of abuse. We are afraid that there may be abuse of those who, of course, want to rest at this time because we have experienced as doctors and such suggestions or requests to report them even though they have not been in contact to come into self-insulation to rest for 14 days. Okay, now it's reduced to 10 days and even less, depending on what stage someone actually came into contact with the infected, but this is exactly why we have to be responsible and be careful not to do any more damage and HZZO to these decisions that are well-intentioned, which are to help and actually create one security and stability, of course and financial support, but we need to be careful not to happen because of this abuse and therefore it's important to discuss these proposals well here, to see what is useful to our citizens and what could do harm to the whole system and therefore, we need to be responsible because the state has to take care about the health security of its citizens, of course, and about the economy, to take into account the overall context in which we are located, taking into account the principle of best interest of both the individual and the community, but keeping in account, and keeping one functional system of which is important to take care of what measures to be taken by the first person and therefore the person who appears to be responsible for the greater health, and therefore, which makes the most important to the health and the most possible. So in this sense, it is important and good that during these years and a half, this virus that has made us so much pain and damage and a lot of people who have lost their lives with this virus, I think it has made the entire world aware of not only the Croatian citizens but the importance of health, the care of its health, our own responsibility, because that way we can contribute to a better, better health system because if we ourselves take care of our health, which is most important and which is the highest responsibility,... The easiest thing to do is to give in and then say to the doctor, “Doctor, here I am teaching myself to you with all my illnesses and now keep taking care of me. ” [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is precisely the goal of creating our own responsibility and caring for our health and staying healthy, to save ourselves and then only when we fail, when we are attacked by something that is stronger than us, then we are asking for help, and in fact we will reduce the pressure on the health system and help us to live better with those resources that we have as a Croatian state. Here, because of this and because of the importance of this responsibility, I don't think there's any need in particular at the moment when we're in an intensive vaccination phase, when I believe that very soon by the end of the year, maybe this virus and completely forget, that we're now adopting this law, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, we won't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47795	Thank you, too. The SDP's views on this law will be presented by Mrs. Andrea Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47796	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about supplements and changes in health insurance, she's a proposing colleague of Mrak-Taritash. The bill refers to better protection of self-insulating persons during the spread of the epidemic of the new crown of the virus, as well as to the prevention of its spread, and therefore the applicant considers that the remuneration for those who have a measure of self-insulation should be 100% of the basis for salary compensation, such as for example in the case of temporary incompetence due to injury to work. We've already heard that the total monthly amount is 4257 kn and in 2 weeks. in self-insulation would be 2125 kuna. It is logical to believe that persons who are employed and have been in contact with persons who have been confirmed by COVID-19 could be silenced by contact with the infected because of the fear of reduced incomes in those 2 weeks. and thus contribute to the widespread infection. This definitely cancels the efforts and multiple resources invested in suppressing the coronary virus epidemic. In the current text of the law, the Proposer also noted the indifference that caused the person who donates organs and living tissue to the benefit of another person, and also did not have the right to be 100% of the pay base during the temporary incompetence due to organ and tissue transplants, so this supplement also suggests that this inability should be corrected and, as I said in the replica, I have reviewed all the current proposals of the Legal Health Insurance Act from 2008 onwards, when all these years and 2013, those who actually participate in organ transplants were mentioned, and then were simply lost, which is definitely inadmissible. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of the proposed law because, as it states, the applicant did not assess the amount of funds necessary for the implementation of the proposed law, nor the sources of resources that would come from HZZO’s resources and said that since the HZZO has certain resources to be used for health care costs and the cash compensations that insured persons can make under compulsory health insurance, these funds have already been allocated according to the 2020 financial plan. However, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash has submitted this proposal for the first time 13. 3. In 2020, we had already stepped into the epidemic and we believe that there was enough time for a financial structure to be planned by the government. In addition, self-insulation has been prescribed by the state, not only for the protection of individuals but for all of us. It is clear and evident from the government's position, and also from the HDZ Club's position that the ruling will reject this proposal, but since it is necessary to amend the existing law, especially with regard to the transplant, then we ask you to submit a new bill at least under the government's seal but to amend it in the next period. We've been saying for months that we need an extensive cost of benefit analysis that we haven't seen before. How much is spent on protective products, equipment, medicines, tests, how much is the amount for self-insulation, sick leave and, on the other hand, how few would be less sick, less human lives lost, how much less would be economic losses resulting from pandemics, etc. that all those measures we asked for were applied from opposition and professions and scientists, so more testing, traffic lights or regional approaches, earlier inclusion of civil protection systems, help medical students to assist in monitoring contacts, I recall only, I think only this one hired on 19.11.2020, and not that in the second wave of the pandemic practically disintegrated the contact tracking system at one point. All of this I quote is based on the testimony of a number of citizens, including our fellow MPs, that no one asked them for contacts at the time because the epidemiologists didn't come all by themselves. Now, when we see this Cost-Benefit analysis that we're always talking about, I've talked about it several times, then we'll see if we can do better in this whole pandemic approach. Some colleagues from the ruling option were of the opinion that the increase in self-insulation fees would in some way enable and increase the number of possible abuses of use of this institute. However, we feel that on not many such examples where individuals have indeed asked doctors to prescribe self - isolation to rest a little, just as we all know well that some seek sick leave at the time of harvest, we cannot punish others. In addition, if we live and want to live in an orderly state, health inspections should be a little more often controlled by such illnesses. It is also problematic that many workers of fear of losing their jobs kept in touch or were not allowed by employers at all to mention that they were in contact by threatening to fire them. That's what I was talking about a few months ago, not made up, but based on numerous examples from the field. And such employers must be punished by the state. We believe that these proposals, the addition of the law by a colleague, are good, especially related to the transplant supplement, and this means self-insulation, and as the SDP Club, we will support the proposed changes to the law and we believe that money should certainly be found in order to increase those fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47797	Thank you, too. Mrs. Devereaux. Sandra Bencic will hold views on this law of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47798	Good afternoon. Thank you. So, the Green-Left bloc club will support this proposal, of course. We believe that it responds to what we have been pointing out all along as problems in the management of the covid crisis, which is that in this pandemic not all have been the same and that those who are otherwise in the most difficult position and living exclusively from their work have actually suffered much more severe consequences than some others. So I'm going to say that one of the problems in managing this covid crisis is the fact that we've never declared a state of emergency even though we've been living in a state of emergency for over a year, it's clear to all of us, by absolutely all the features of our life and of our private and business and social we actually see that we live in an extraordinary situation. The decisions in this house were not made by a two-thirds majority as they were supposed to, and these are decisions which are seriously, seriously, not in the short term, but systematically, and within the longer term, limit fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. One of these fundamental rights is the right to work. So, the fact is that all those who have a measure of self-insulation that are by force of the law, but not only of the law, but also of the Staff which, I still don't know what position they have in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, is still flouting and unclear, so that they had to be left out of work for two weeks, so 14 days of self-insulation. While they were not generally incompetent to work, they followed the measure prescribed, for a reason of course, the restriction of the spread of the virus and the restriction of the spread of the infection. However, when we, as a legislator, prescribe that someone must prevent the spread of the disease from staying at home for two weeks in isolation, then we cannot penalize those persons with lower incomes because all those who have an average or above average salary received lower wages during self-insulation than they do otherwise. And now I'm going to tell you what it looks like to some people, for example, people who work in the health system, who had to multiple self-insulation, some have been 4-5 times in isolation, they have a salary above average, and then they're actually retired from month to month, or every month when they're in self isolation because they get a significantly lower salary. And in fact, they're only following the decisions of this assembly and headquarters, and they're actually responsible citizens who have reported that they've been in touch. So we penalized them. But let's move on. What were the consequences of the spread of the virus as pointed out by counterpart Taritash? Of course, in order not to get paid less, people tried in all ways, in fact many of them, to prevent them from going into self - isolation because if they went into self - isolation they might not be able to pay all the cost of living that month. And so we actually got a virus spread boom and we actually lost the ability to traverse contacts, which is one of the key measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Let's see if they've all been through the same thing. Did self-insistence MPs get a lower salary? Did they go to HZZO sick leave? I don't know, I wasn't. Did any of you know? I don't think anybody got paid any less. Why? Well, I mean, we don't even have to open up the sick leave, that's where whoever comes, who hasn't come, who isn't, who isn't, who isn't, who isn't, who isn't, who isn't, who isn't, and without it, there's no obligation to come, so, dear God, if someone's not here for two weeks most often won't even notice he's gone. Now look at what the assembly looks like, too. So when it stands out by the ruling as an argument that no pay is compensated during self-insulation at 100% of the argument so-called. moral gambling that many will use it to rest at home for two weeks, then when you speak from this position privilegedly, it really works out, because you who are in a privileged position don't even have to come to work and get full pay, either in self-insulation or in the Sessels, for example. on vacation, you're cynicalally saying that you won't pay people a 100% labour ban, so a ban on working because of the measure you've prescribed so that some people don't use it very much. Well, I mean, if it's not cynical, I don't know what it is. So, finally, we have to remember that we have to distinguish situations where citizens are bound by certain law enforcement rights and when justified. In this case it's justified, we're trying to reduce the rate of at least spreading the virus. But that when we impose it as a measure and as a restriction that by its nature should be temporary and which should certainly be voted by a two-thirds majority in this House then compensation must be complete because otherwise, you will not succeed. And I think the damage to the budget would have been far less if we'd gone to 100% compensation and people were reporting contacts and applying themselves and going into self-insulation when we needed it than the damage we've had since the rapid spread of the virus to the health system and the cost of the health system. So let's put some of that cost of benefit in the relationship and figure out what would cost us less if the cost was already a problem. And I'm going to say one more thing, the problem is to make up for people's 100% salary is the problem, and it wasn't the problem with the money to pay for the covid supplement just before the elections, it wasn't the problem, but right before the elections. It wasn't a problem to find money to pay back taxes for last year just before the election, these very days. It's all by accident, of course, that accidentally coincided with these synchronicities between the government and the universe are fantastic and they always exactly match that week, two before the election, so it wasn't all a problem. And the problem was the people we forced not to work to pay 100% salary. So let the citizens decide if it's all a coincidence, is it good governance of the state, is it good governance of the covid crisis, and are we, and that's a key question, in this whole accident that happened to us and the whole world were all equal before the law, are we all the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47799	You, too. And finally, on behalf of the proposer, Mrs. Anka, Mr. Taritash, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47800	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So it's clear and there's going to be a vote tomorrow and this bill is not going to pass and it's not going to be the first or last proposal that has nothing to do with the world's horizon, which has nothing to do with any other matter, but absolutely just because the proposal came from the opposition. So I'm taking this opportunity and I'm asking the ruling that as soon as possible they make an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, that this thing that's tied up and I'm sure no one is disputed, and that's that someone who during the temporary incompetence due to organ and tissue transplants at that time has 100% salary, but it shouldn't be disputed either. So when she came along, when the monster of the crown or covid-19 came along, I was my good friend who asked the doctor what you were doing, and he told me, look, it's 19th century disease, and we can act exactly as we did in the 19th century, take care of hygiene, facial masks, don't go near each other and reduce your contacts to the least possible measure and nothing else for now until we see the vaccine until everything else is seen. And in the context of that, really those people who are responsible, who are conscious, who said at the same time that, I was in touch, I had contacts and you and or someone who got sick from the crown and reported their contacts, those people went into isolation. I don't need to remind you of that case of a man who went to his field and because he left self-insulation he paid a fine of 8,000 kuna that actually shows the irony of all this together. What's the role of the state? So I'm someone who really takes care of and I'm inclined and it's not a secret, so I'm at the head of a party called the Civil Liberal Union, the role of the state is to help its citizens in these situations, the role of the state is to recognize crisis situations when without a state we can't function, the role of the state was to really encourage people to go into self-insulation for a simple reason because that's how you reduce the spread of the virus. It's very simple, if you cut the contacts, you'll reduce the spread of the virus, and that's where we've been wandering. First, self isolation was 2 weeks, then at the time of that large number of infected when it was really those alarming numbers was 10 days, no one knew why it was 2 weeks or why it was 10 days, but okay, you have to trust someone and you have to decide something. So, really one message I want to send clearly, which is this law will not pass. He didn't make it a year ago, he won't make it tomorrow. And I'm absolutely clear about that, too, and I'm sorry about that, but what's there is, that's how we operate, so most of us decided. But I'm asking the ministry to really keep an eye on it, make a change to the law, it's going to be one of those laws where there's going to be the green ones at all, so the main ones, that's all. The main thing is we and this antivaxer who think it's all together, that the crown is made up, but okay, everyone has the right to think something else. Make a change to the law, decide so you have two topics that we've opened, one topic that doesn't have any idea who it would be controversial to, and the other topic is really during self-insulation that the fee is 100% to not be reduced compensation for why someone doesn't go into self-insulation. What are the consequences of Corona or Covid? We will soon be in case we have more vaccines than those who want to be vaccinated. So it's important to divide the nation and until we split up in a large number of coronas will still live here. For the crown scenario, we couldn't prepare ourselves, but we can now prepare ourselves for something else's script, so God forbid it's gone, God forbid we finish this story with this crown. But getting ready for some scenario and what we learned from this should continue to be used. We don't even know what the consequences of the crown are about those who are over or aren't over, you have those ambulances that post-covid effects looking at each other, so it's different. I don't know what's wrong, it's crazy, but you don't know and you think okay, you can't help me, you can help me. And what consequences on the mental health of our citizens will only be seen, for children who have not gone to school, for children who have lost social contact, for families in which violence has indeed gone on during the crown, we will see just what the consequences of the crown are. This law is, this proposal is very simple. This proposal only says the state, the ministry, by ruling, encourage people to be in self-insulation, if you encourage them to be vaccinated, then encourage people to stay at home and thus reduce contacts and not spreaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47801	Thank you too, you have one replica from Mr. Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47802	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here's the pandemic. It's a terrible thing, and we certainly don't know what the consequences will be. But I would ask a moral question here, while the country on the one hand helps 680,000 people who work, we have people who know for 2,000 that they've been in touch, go and transmit the virus. Is it normal that people for 2,000, I know that it's hard for them to live up to their roles that they're going to infect 100 other people and that we're now discussing these and those who have done so much damage to the community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47803	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47804	Thank you very much. You've opened a very interesting question. Should the state be with all its citizens the same? Should the state not distinguish citizens? Is it the state that, while someone is in self-insulation, should say, I told you to go into self-insulation? I'm the one who said you had to be, but in the meantime, I'm penalizing you. Therefore, the state must be equal to everyone. I can often compare it, you know, when we disappear from this world. We all have the right to a funeral, someone gets a slightly better term, someone a little worse term, but here that you transfer responsibility and morality to people, and that the state pretends it's not there, and I won't remind you of those ideas where the state had an idea to track all the phones. So she wanted to track all the phones, but she doesn't want to regulate this. Now, this country has a little problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-06-0.u47805	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're going to have a break by 13 o'clock, and at 13 o'clock we're going to have a point of view on clubs, clubs and independent representatives of the so-called. Free speech. Thank you. It's 12.19 o'clock.
