ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27183	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:04 A.M.]] At the beginning of only one information, the president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Branko Bačić, informed me on behalf of the ruling coalition that one representative was not present today for the death case vote, also told me that consultations were carried out with opposition clubs and that today we will be able to hold a vote on the quorum, so I thank all those who participated in these talks, and especially the opposition colleagues. Now I'm going to comply with the article. Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure propose the addition of the agenda of the 6th session with 6 new points, the proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law under points 1 and 4 of the proposed amendment? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. Since written objections are not available at other points, I note that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 6th session. A stop connected to what? ... Tell me, I don't know. Let's see what it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27184	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Mosto Club on voting consultations. Today, a concrete example will show the difference between the self-will of the ruling and the constructiveity of us from the Bridge. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have been acting seriously, responsibly and constructively, proposing laws that go in favour of our workers, our entrepreneurs about craftsmen. When we left this assembly last time, Mr. President, we didn't do it to bring you down or to outplay with you. We wanted to send you a message, and we're not going to let you drain our people through unnecessary pressures through the chambers. That's when you first made a move and removed our law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27185	My colleague Miletić, please, I will allow you further, what you are doing now is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. So, you're looking for a break on the agenda, and I'm asking you to at least tie yourself to this first item of the agenda and say what you want, but to satisfy the form I'm not going to deny you that right, but please tie yourself to the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27186	President of the Parliament despite all the insults that we have suffered here at the Mosta Club, we will stay here in the assembly to show our attitude and that we are not the same. You are not in our focus as ruling, we care about the Croatian people who are in great difficulty, to the blocked and completed, to the caterers that have been placed in completely illogical measures and unequal criteria, to young families leaving our country because we do not have the most intelligent policy, to athletes who still cannot train in their halls. It is possible that we will win again by that other cheek of slap, it is possible that you will not again accept the hand here and here today in particular we show here, but let us finally work and pass laws in the interest of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27187	Comrade Miletic, you have now violated the Rules of Procedure regardless of what I have warned you, but I will not give any warning because I consider you to have been correct in terms of staying here, but I ask you to keep this correctness and not to abuse what we agreed on now. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27188	Mr. President of the Parliament. I think what I'm about to say now has something to do with this agenda, so on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we're looking for a break to further clarify all together on the conduct of our Ministry of Justice, and on behalf of the non-processing or avoidance of the extradition of war criminal Dragan Ciric from Belgrade to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27189	Comrade Sacic, I'm going to have to stop you now. You have the right to speak freely, so I am not stopping you because of the topic, but because what you are doing now is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is a free speech that comes after the vote, and I am asking you to speak in that free speech about the subject you have now announced. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27190	Thank you. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement at this first point. I think it's still important to say some things today, so it's not a problem to meet, we're not politicians who are going to use a death case to score some cheap points. But we've been listening lately, I'd say shallow spins by the prime minister if we were angry, frustrated. I cannot speak on behalf of all the opposition parties now, and we are certainly not angry or frustrated in the Homeland Movement, but we are concerned about the situation in Croatia. We want to encourage the culture of parliamentary democracy, I think that's important. I'm not saying it empty right now, but honestly, we need to treat this House in a dignified way. Let's remember the last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27191	Comrade Bartulica, I'll interrupt you. If you want to treat this House in a dignified way then stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Bartulica: Say, say.]] What you're doing is breaking the Rules of Procedure, and you can talk about what you're saying in about 45 minutes, under the form of a five-minute debate and free speech. This now I ask you to hold on to one of the agenda points, so hold on. [[Intruder Bartulica: Can I finish?]] Now you can all answer clubs and argue like this, it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure simply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27192	Okay, I don't think what I'm doing is incorrect, I said I'd talk about the agenda, and unfortunately we're witnessing that in the practice of HS, there's happening and manipulations with the agenda, some points come out, some of them delay, etc. So once again I will repeat there is a good will, we are not small souls to use some trouble in this way, but again I will say that we will fight for the right of speech here, it is not good to interrupt that we are constantly sharing reminders etc., that we are being delivered by the ruling ones, we do not like it. So, we behave responsibly, we'll be there, but it shouldn't be taken for granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27193	So, first of all, we all have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and it is the task of those who preside over this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure describe what it means to take a break when it can be requested, when the chair has to approve it and we stick to it. So that's why I'm telling you this. And there's a form and you can say what you wanted at the second moment, but well, it doesn't matter. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, then we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27259	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Sanja Radolovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27260	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I, Minister Horvato, as a minister who manages the state property itself, addressed the parliamentary issue on November 11, 2020, to this day I have not received the answer yet, and therefore this is the next one. It is the business of Brijuni Riviera and the realization of a megaproject of the same name Brijuni Riviera or as it says in the contract on the establishment of a society, the construction of a high-class tourist resort with the Brijuni island as an oasis of elite tourism on the principles of sustainable development and the creation of new jobs in economic operators. What is embarrassing is that today in tourism, we have companies that have 5,000 employees and therefore live on aids of 4000 kuna. However, we have one state-owned company, Brijuni Riviera, which has employees, beware, only 20 employees, but neatly still the director of society receives 15 thousand kuna net wages. It's a company that was created in 2003, it's been announced, it's been announced, it's been carefully, it's been four thousand jobs. From 2003 to today, the company has only 20 employees. In these times of crisis, they still have a director who has 15 thousand kuna net wages. I don't know if the minister, but I really care what these people do when 8 hours of work come in, I know exactly what I'm doing, I know what I'm doing in Parliament, I know what I'm doing at the university, I know what I'm doing in a party. But I'm interested in what that director and the entire board of society do when they wake up and come up in the morning on their work day, which they do in particular 8 hours a day for 15 thousand kuna net wages. It should also be added that several times on my request, so also on the memos I sent to the company itself to provide me with a list of information on the financial operations of the company and on the number of employees, job names and receipts, there is simply no answer from that company. They announced the Brijuni Riviera project from the company's very large investment, multimillion-dollar investment and that 4 thousand jobs will be opened and that they will be placed in the function of an abandoned military zone that we have throughout Leprechaun ours, so from Brijuni to Kupar to Dubrovnik, and that they will be put into operation finally and accommodation capacity within Brijuni National Park. We saw what happened from 2003 to today, Brijuni Riviera became one measuring unit for one great absolutely nothing. What stands on the very pages of the company is a vision of the company which, beware, is the most prestigious tourist destination, and Brijuni Riviera as the leading company that drives development processes and which will achieve high quality tourism Istria, but will also be the bearer of the economic development of Istria and the Republic of Croatia. I have to say that I am quite disappointed that the minister himself did not respond to me, the only thing that happened, so on this project that should have, I would say, for Croatia, a significant project if it promises 4 thousand jobs, the only thing that happened was that they gave the concession to Mr. Končar in 2012 the most desirable location within the same-named Brijuni Riviera project, and he has not literally buried one shovel since 2012, so since 2012. Končar has a concession on several of the most prestigious locations in which he wanted to achieve the idea of his elite tourism, then he justified himself to conservatives, conservative protection, so he's bothered by the city, so he's bothered by the county, and in the end we don't have a single job open, we have a company that deals with loss, which is still funded by the state money that he's beaten into, only for the core capital of a million and a half kuna and so, we have a company that is... In fact, the public sector and public money, and rightly all people in the Istrian county are bitter at the very mention of the name of Brijuni Riviera, but also in the name of the Brijuni Riviera project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27261	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with today's work. We will continue to work on Wednesday, February 24th at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands, first reading, P.Z. No. 87. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.28 p.m. The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left bloc in the name of which Rada Boric, a respected representative, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27385	... My colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] For years, we have witnessed the governing crisis in the HGK and in the HOK whose work is marked by intransparency, judicial proceedings against the leaders of both chambers, the absence of modernisation and resistance to all changes, the capture of these institutions in the party frameworks and the inability of their leadership to adapt to the demands of time. A party that has not shown interest in changing society with a long tradition of party influence since the age of 31. The ruling party's influence continues to be strongly pressured by Croatian institutions. The HGK and the HOK, although nominally independent institutions, are secretly supporting HDZ governments and the leaders of these chambers were also on HDZ's lists in the general elections. The prime ministers included Plenkovic, often publicly defending the HOK and HGK leaders. Without independent institutions, media and strong civil society, Croatia is sinking into democracy, in the cartoons of democracy with similar ones that are always good and unbecoming from institutional violence or punishment for disobedience. Without structural change from party and tribal society to civil society, Croatia continues to be threatened by corruption, poverty and lagging behind on the real geographical but economic periphery of the EU. We are witnessing that in public space an increasing number of citizens, associations, workers, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, political parties and civil initiatives have objections and testifys about ignoring laws and regulations in the HGK and the HOC. The strategic governance of the HGK and the HOK is not exactly as serious national strategies in the party state, although they do not exist, the ruling main strategy is to remain in power regardless of the price we all pay. When key decisions are made by similar and not capable, social development does not exist and is diverged into ruling and predominant ones. While the first will always have enough, the overworked will work and earn occasional, insecure, and too little without the strength to become a cover of change, which suits the ruling. In recent weeks, it has been seen how much mud and loops with information are especially about the spending of funds paid by entrepreneurs and craftsmen to HOK and HGK. While many public authorities are still more successful in dealing with the requirements of the Law on the right to access information, the HGK and the HOK generally ignore and do so without consequences for years. Without the right data, it's impossible to plan development. Therefore, data democracy is important but the HOK and HGK are not ready to open their own data on their own business, let alone allow economic data researchers to integrate data to better plan the future of entrepreneurship and crafts. If everything remains unchanged with this HGK and the HOK, there is no future for the economy, entrepreneurship and craftsmanship in Croatia. Croatia has been thoroughly deindustrated for the past 30 years by HDZ policies but should not have been in transition countries, Slovenia and the Czech Republic and Slovakia have shown us. The knowledge of re-industrialisation of Croatia, green, sustainable, ecologically acceptable, is becoming less and less. The pandemic, climate change, the inability of the party state to deal with crises including health care in economics, reduces the basis for survival and once successful businesses and craftsmen. New times require quality knowledge to survive in a small, open economy like Croatia at all. Burilovic, as president of the HGK, graduated from some suspicious university in Republika Srpska while the president of the HOK, Mr Ranogatec, graduated from the 3rd grade secondary trade school. We don't underestimate schools but who runs such large systems then, especially when the monthly receipts are listed exceed all the receivings of the most excellent innovators, and even members of the government. Therefore, the requirement of more than 200 000 entrepreneurs and craftsmen is for the removal of chambers, the chamber's contribution legitimate. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27442	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Prkacin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27443	It's green, isn't it? ... So, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, you're not much, it doesn't matter. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm continuing my presentation from last Wednesday when I was talking about the Serbian Orthodox Church and I didn't finish the presentation, I'm not sure I'm going to finish today. And that's why I decided to go out for this pay phone until I say everything that I think is important on this extremely important political issue. Yeah, well, you've heard the political issue, although it's a formal religious community. The Serbian Orthodox Church is actually a paramilitary, parapolitical institution that deals much more with what I have said than with faith and God and it is actually the main promoter of great Serbian ideas, expansionism, chauvinism, imperialism and in these areas such ideas can only be carried out by war. And the worst possible war. The war in which there is genocide, where ethnic cleansing, the method of the burned country, etc. What makes Serbia, the Serbian army, about the people, ready to show up in 1913 in II. The Balkan War? The I. Balkan War has failed for tactical reasons, but in II. In the Balkan war, in 1913, they did what shocked half of Europe and especially English writer Marguerite Duras, will you please keep them quiet so they don't disturb me? English writer Marguerite Duras, who as a great lover of the Serb and Montenegrin troops, followed the field and was shocked to see what was happening. When she saw what the Serbian and Montenegrin armies were doing with those who fell under her knife. It was one amazing massacre of civilians, women, children, they did not distinguish between soldiers and not soldiers, between men and women, between small and large, etc. I deliberately mentioned this syntagma because of a well-known Serb named Dimitri Tucovic, whom they say is the most famous Serb from II. half of the 19th and early 20th century. He was also a Serb soldier, or captain and participated in the Serbian army, and was horrified by the behaviour of his colleagues in the Albanian village of Ljume where 500 civilians were massacred but where is the problem? Reserves, reserve officers of the Serbian army wanted to be a little lighter, however, from the top command came the command "Rushi, fell and under the knife". When they sent them notifications and a report that only women and children were left, the same command came again "Under the knife, down and down" and then the most touching scene description, Tucovic's description, so the Serb who sees what his colleagues are doing, how young Albanian women with children fall in his arms with their paws, as they scream, etc. What's the big deal? The important thing is that this incident is not a lower-level incident, it's a decision of the Supreme Command. The same decision, the same drastic example in 1924 in Sandzak, Sahovic where the Serb committee and their Montenegrins are whites and whites are those who are pro-Serbian orientations, receive the right and permission to slaughter, burn, burn and kill what they arrive within 24 hours. And they were effective, liquidating 600 or some even 800 Muslim civilians. So again with permission, with the permission of the most political authority. Who thinks that in Srebrenica there is no Serb army, the top of the Serbian army and politics knew what was coming? So it is an army supported, supported and inspired by the Serbian Orthodox Church. I'm running out of time. I'm not gonna talk anymore. Because they're in the next follow-up... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27444	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS and will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27515	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. According to some generally known basic concepts of position and opposition, it is the opposition that opposes the ruling majority and tends to win its own position in power. The opposition should be a counterweight to the abuse of power that tends more or less to any authority. And our authority, this power more than any other, is more prone to abuse of its own political position and its own political power. We may too often forget this because the affairs are not being prosecuted and not convicted, and this is because there is not enough capacity or independence in the competent anti-corruption authorities and also in the judicial authorities. We may also forget that because the number of these affairs is as large as a large number of individual drops in some heavy rain. It is the opposition that depends on the care of the proper functioning of the political government. The opposition should be both transparent and critical in its function, it should shape those views and those interests that the government does not adequately represent and does not integrate them into policies it implements. So why am I saying that? Because the interest of this government is that the state remains essentially the same, and that means, above all, corrupt. A state of impoverished and disreputable citizens who are left to the mercy and mercy of political elites. And it's my interest to change that. One of the documents that we have not adopted not only in time but have not adopted at all so far and the less important proposals are being changed in this house as on the tape is the new Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 2021 to 2025. The creation of the strategy is reportedly under way, although the strategy itself should have been put into effect. Following an announcement of the topics that this strategy will contain, it is obvious that it is another dry document without real value and without its essence. In the present approach, all anti-corruption policies were viewed primarily as part of judicial reform. So far has not been at the level and within the framework of the national anti-corruption strategy, it has looked at how the existing state structure, primarily its territorial organisation and then the electoral system and the direction of the electoral units, influences or can affect the emergence and spread of corruption. I therefore believe that in the new concept, the new Anti-Corruption Strategy for which an opposition must be fought but not the opposition that holds the quorum and the lottery of the current government is that, in the draft itself, in the Anti-Corruption Strategy itself, we introduce several new areas. The first is to amend constitutional provisions in that work which defines the relationship between the President of the State and the Government, given that in the existing Constitution in the work in which this relationship is defined, there are indeterminates that the important political processes take place in a way that is contrary to what the Constitution says and the public does not have the possibility of insight and control whether the relationship between the President of the State and the Government is such as to guarantee the protection of public interests. I also propose that the Anti-Corruption Strategy is much stronger, therefore, to introduce a new body, which is the Office for the Prevention of Corruption with far more powerful powers that the Commission has so far to decide on a conflict of interest and to raise the level of transparency to the fiscal transparency of all state and other public bodies. I also suggest that in the area of repression of corruption, judicial independence be strengthened in a way that creates a new institutional redesign for both the State Council and the State Judicial Council, to start by removing from the composition of these bodies two parliamentary representatives sitting in those bodies. I also propose to consider the need and other constitutional changes, for example, amending a constitutional provision that defines that the mandate of the chief state attorney is defined to be 4 years with the possibility of re-election, in order to strengthen the independence of the main state attorney, I propose that the mandate be extended without the possibility of re-election and certainly to include in the strategy the necessity of territorial re-election in the direction of reducing counties, numbers, numbers of counties, cities and municipalities and amendments to electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27516	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Zdravka Busic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27615	... I would like to say a few words today about the successful completion of the visa exemption process with the United States. [[Specially enabled.]] Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens, that is, will soon travel to the United States without visas. The US Foreign Ministry, or State Secretariat, confirmed that Croatia has met one of the key conditions for joining the US visa exemption programme or opening opportunities for Croatian citizens for visa-free travel to the United States. Let's remind ourselves, entering the visa-free regime required a few preconditions, and the most important one was to achieve the threshold of denied visa requirements below 3%. Percentage of denied requests for tourism and business, so-called B1 and B2 visa last year is 2,68%, below the required 3% threshold. This is the only one of the four EU member states left with Bulgaria, Cyprus and Romania to achieve the goal this year. Here, I'd like from these plates that are official from the U.S. Embassy, so.../incomprehensible/... Bulgaria had 12.52% last year, Romania 10.14%, Cyprus 6.21%), while Croatia had 2.69% refused, Poland succeeded last year. This is the result of the efforts made by the authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the United States for many years. It certainly contributed to the co-operation and coordination of the US and Croatian Embassy, of course in Zagreb and Croatian diplomacy to ensure that everyone who submits visa applications meets all the conditions for that visa to be granted. Joining the programme is one of the foreign policy priorities as strengthening political and economic co-operation with the United States, one of the strategic interests and goals of the Republic of Croatia. By abolishing the visa requirements, it will allow for the uninterrupted travel of Croatian citizens to the United States, contribute to easier integration as well as the development of business ties and all for the benefit of Croatian citizens as well as scientific and business communities. We have heard many times that the biggest brakes are the faster development of the economic and all kinds of relations between the US and Croatia, the first visa regime and the second double taxation. This first one will be here, thank God, soon behind us, while on the second one is actively working on the MVEP and we hope for a successful outcome and these other decisions. By joining the programme, we also confirm good partner relations with the United States that we are building bilaterally and through NATO. In the upcoming period, despite the pandemic, a visit to the mission of US Ministry of Homeland Security experts to confirm that all the conditions for joining the programme or confirmation of compliance are met. This could complete the process of confirming and meeting all the conditions this summer and finally resolve the issue that has been under way since the end of the 1990s. Here is another success of our Croatian diplomacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27616	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that Mosta in the name of the Honored Representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27685	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. In addition to removing the effects of the earthquake, debacles in the acquisition of vaccines, the misery of excessive vaccination with the godless surpluses of the vaccine deficiency and recent corruptionist affairs, the second plan was the purchase of fighter aircraft. More specifically, the lack of supply I want to look back on in this brief presentation. Croatia has 12 MiGs, 21 of which is 8 operational and whose resources expire in the spring of 2024. In order not to have blunt force in the protection of Croatian airspace, it is necessary until then to obtain aircraft that will replace up-to-date MiGs and in the meantime it is necessary to agree on a draft contract to buy a new aircraft and sign it, train the required staff, build and adapt the infrastructure, train pilots and mechanics. All of this takes at least 2 years, which means that the contract for the purchase of new aircraft should be signed as soon as possible and no later than the end of the year. Any delay in the selection shortens time for a quality contract, so it goes directly against Croatia's interest. The attempt to obtain new fighter aircraft goes back to the mandate of the first government of Andrej Plenkovic, in which almost nothing was done. As a matter of fact, the damage was done because we lost two years. When the prime minister realized that he had given the underprivileged person the task of obtaining the process of obtaining a fighter aircraft and that it had been thrown into the wind for 2 years, he himself took the initiative and appointed a new inter-resor commission, he gave the commission a guide to include the French, hence the influential EU member. I do not want to speculate on whether buying French Rafael would make it easier to get someone's high position in the EU. It took the new expert committee almost a year to make a proposal for the government in the same types of aircraft + French Rafael, and the government had to make a final decision on the selection of the type of aircraft a grander or less than 12 December 2020 on Croatian Air Force Day, as I imagine a special gift to all our airmen. But what did they get on that day? Nothing. Not if a large government decision was not made and announced, but for the first time in the history of the Croatian state, December 12th was not celebrated Croatian Air Force Day, and the reason is obvious that one of the journalists would not accidentally ask the Prime Minister a logical question as to the decision to purchase a fighter plane. It was moved in two weeks, then marked almost anonymously. The government then announced that the final decision would be announced after the New Year's Eve, and none of it was, hoping that the earthquakes that hit Sisak and Petrinja would forget the acquisition of fighter planes. Andrej Plenkovic is currently in a position to make one good decision for the first time, which is in the interest of the Croatian people, because the choice of a fighter plane, regardless of whether they decided at the end for Rafael or F-16 is a good choice because the waist agrees, both planes are top-notch. The current attempt to connect the reason for the delay in selecting earthquakes or the coronary crisis has nothing to do with it because the financial resources required in this year are minimal or zero. We don't buy these planes for cash anyway, we buy for credit, so we don't have that money right now, so we can't spend it on rebuilding or resuscitating the crown of the crisis. The reason before lies, for example, if one decision is made, how to tell the Americans why we do not buy their planes and promise them in return. We keep stressing to Americans that they are our strategic partners, and we do not know for ourselves what they are more than Germany or France, like the EU countries. It would be even harder if the decision were different to tell the French that we put ourselves into the game, that we would not buy from them planes, if we chose to go to America and that the money we were going to give for the planes is not staying inside the EU family but going to the Americans. It is clear to all that one who has no sovereignty in the air, on earth and on the sea cannot claim to have a sovereign state and can only sell stories about how we are in the NATO alliance, so we are protected because we will be defended by other members, or even more, demagogue that it will be free. Take the relationship only between Greece and Turkey, both the countries in the NATO Pact or remember during the Russian Anexia of Crimea that suddenly some countries have begun to question the article. 5 The North Atlantic Treaty, which speaks of how one member has been gunned down, is considered to have attacked all members, but some members remain highly reserved at that time. In conclusion, the sovereignty in the airspace has no alternative, if we want to continue to have a sovereign state, and this can only be ensured by obtaining a new fighter plane without delaying and stroking the eyes of people who care about the sovereign Croatian state. Since time is running out, any decision is better than further delay. It remains to be believed that this decision will soon be made and will be best for Croatian military and geostrategic interests. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27686	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we take a stand. Since my colleague Kajtazi is in the other hall, so he needs some time, let's go. And here it is, there it is. I didn't want to skip you. I know you're in the other room. Then we'll go as planned, first with the National Minority Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27726	... how two international important dates are marked tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. [[Specially enabled.]] The first of them is the World Day of Social Justice, which is marked tomorrow 20 February when the decision was unanimously supported by 192 UN members at the General Assembly in November 2007. I think it is undeniable that social justice, equality and justice make fundamental values from every social life. The issue of economic growth does not mean anything if this growth does not follow social justice. Let's just look at the current situation around the pandemic of the crown, while millions of people have lost their jobs and incomes on the other hand, billionaires have become even richer. If we want a society that we will call just, then it must be based on respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, but not only for them to be based on a declaration but also in reality. This means that there must be equal opportunities and a fair approach to social welfare for each individual in our society. To see how it's not easy to realize I'm going to take a concrete example, not in the world, but here in our country. For example, it is one of the key factors for reducing poverty and social exclusion as well as raising opportunities in the field of work and quality of life. This is why education and equalising and raising the quality of conditions and standards in all schools is one of the key conditions for achieving social justice. On paper or formally in Croatia, all of them are equal, but in reality the conditions in schools differ significantly, and the state pedagogical standard has been in force since 2008. often he doesn't. The regional differences in Croatia stemmed from a decentralised system of education funding have been known for years, but when we know that this is the way we must also make a strategy for their unification. For example, almost 150 towns and municipalities have no kindergarten at all, and preschool education is often treated as a social service to parents or as a childcare service, not as an important factor in achieving later school successes. According to data from the Centre for Pensions Studies of September 2019. more than half the schools work in two shifts, 20% of schools don't have any gym, and even 40% of children don't use school meals. I don't know how much has changed since then, for better or worse, but these figures suggest that social justice is not something abstract and incomprehensible but is something that can be applied very specifically if we really want to do so. A day later on or on Sunday 21st February marks the International Mother Language Day, which UNESCO brought back in 1999. It is indisputable that large world languages such as English, French, German, Spanish, etc. They are becoming more and more widespread and it is good for people to learn language, but language diversity is also important because the loss of only one language is a loss to the entire life of potential on Earth. The mother tongue is the one to which we mark the first language that a person learns in his family. Pedagogical experts claim that the knowledge of mother tongue is very important in informing opinions and research shows that a person who has not mastered his mother tongue has trouble learning not only other languages but also learning at all. Therefore, the International Mother Language Day is intended to remind mankind of the obligation to preserve linguistic diversity as one of the greatest treasures in the past, research shows that half of the 6,000 world languages threaten to disappear in the next few generations because half of all languages speak only 10,000 and fewer speakers and even 1/4 people. The education system around the world and the Internet ignores thousands of languages that threaten the wealth of human knowledge. Languages are not only a vital part of the civilization's cultural heritage but also an expression of human creativity and divergences. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Someone's gonna say it might sound corny. But these very differences are one of mankind's greatest treasures. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u27727	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u29067	Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mate Frankovic of the Croatian Parliament's representative. The debate is closed, I am voting on the motion for a decision. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Mate Frankovic shall be denied at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors of Dubrovnik TV d.o.o. from Dubrovnik on the action brought by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb on 7 August 2020 received under the number K-1429/2020 and on the complaint brought to the municipal court in Dubrovnik on 21 December 2020 received under the number 6K-409/20. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Mate Frankovic shall also be denied, at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Orsat Zovka, submitted to the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik under the number of K-408/20 for the criminal part of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and. 2. Penalty law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous 117 for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Another Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Darka Saturday's representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed, I am voting on the motion for a decision. During the term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against representative Dark Sobota shall be denied at the request of the attorney-in-chief Daniel Moslavec of Kalinovec, who is headed before the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, Business Number K-294/2019-1 for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimously 116 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Committee. And the final point of today's election, appointments and resolutions. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous to 122 votes for decisions to be made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. I thank you all for voting. We will now continue the debates by clubs and independent MPs, and then we will continue on Wednesday afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32708	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club in order to actually discuss once again the importance of this proposal, which we have given together with the SDP club, which is aimed at actually ensuring a moratorium against our citizens but also at business subjects for reasons that the special circumstances of the pandemic are still going on, and special circumstances are even worse than they were last year and because of the longevity of the crisis but also because of the great pandemic wave that we have suffered this autumn and winter. Also, what we are looking for and what we have mentioned is that we are not asking that this moratorium is indefinitely but rather until the adoption of a new complete executive law that will integrate in itself protection mechanisms and debtors and creditors in a way that in fact all of those elements that have driven more than 200,000 of our citizens into debt slavery and long-term blockades of accounts are removed from it, in order to actually enable them to participate in the financial and economic life of the country. The system we now have associated with such a long-term crisis can indeed cause long-term consequences to a significant number of citizens who are above 10% of the working population. So I ask everyone once again to think about how they're actually going to vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32709	Thank you, too. Stanka is approved and also representative Peric is looking for his opportunity to seek a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32710	Dear President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break to further clarify this bill, which we consider to be as proposed, cannot help in a significant way the quality of the resolution of the completed and the implementation. As you know, the process is to adopt and propose a new Executive Act but with all the measures that have been made so far, which the Government has made to stop the 3+3, in order to enable measures to be paid and recognised, or in some way to provide jobs for 4000 kn employees, as well as to help entrepreneurs to compensate for directorial costs and all that it has taken so far, 9 billion kuna paid to employees to overcome this crisis period. Therefore, we believe that only this intervention in the extension of the deadline cannot significantly help the completed teams more so as to reach agreement with the notaries and the public notaries so that several tranches and take care of when and how the executions arrive. Thus, by raising standards, by raising wages and worrying about the fact that even compensation is made possible, it makes it possible to serve trustees’ obligations as best as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32711	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32712	Thank you, Mr. President. This break, Mrs. Devereaux. The pen hurt the ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because what the distinguished colleague put forward, offends the common sense of all those who listened to it, and so does our parliamentary representatives. If some measure was good at a time when the epidemiological and economic situation was better than it is now, then explain to me why this measure is no longer valid. and why you're turning her down now. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] You're not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32713	Comrade coat of arms, you know that I am forced to give you a warning because this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. So now we're going to vote on the final draft law amending the law on the implementation of the enforcement of money assets that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 50 for, 1 abstention and 74 against, and thus no law amending the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appreciable representatives and representatives of the amendments to Article 6 shall not be accepted. In view of the fact that Article 6(1) of the final proposal for a law prescribed a three-year period of implementation of the investment project has already been extended for a year as a transitional measure to mitigate the effects of the Covid-19 disease epidemic and to those users of the law where the three-year period of implementation of the investment project overlaps with the period of onset of the Covid-19 disease epidemic. I must say that this proposal is in line with other measures in the state aid regime. As regards paragraph 2 of the amendment, it is not accepted that the user and the applicant of the project should provide data to the Ministry of Economy before the deadline for submitting the application of the profit tax for 2020, i.e. before 30 June 2021 or before the date of delivery of the annual report on the implementation of the investment project pursuant to Article 17. It's an investment-enhancing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32942	Here's a statement from my colleague Brumnic. You're a free secretary of state, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32943	Dear Members, I ask that votes on this amendment be voted on for a simple reason because here an extension of the time limit that goes exclusively to the benefit of the economy is required, in a way that instead of one year, the duration of the measure is extended to two years. I must admit, I do not understand why the promoter did not accept this because our interest should be exclusively the Croatian economy and the well-being of that economy. I don't understand what's the reason that, if we had a year of crisis, the economy doesn't come out. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u32944	Thank you, too. Since the government does not accept this amendment, we begin to vote on the amendment yes. Who is for the amendment proposed by MP Brumnic? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs, 45 for, 8 abstentions and 73 so that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Investment Encouragement. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs voted, 121 for, 2 abstentions, which means that we passed the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Investment Encouragement Act. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 107. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs, 82 for, 36 abstentions, have voted, and we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u33863	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. On behalf of the SDP Club, I request a recess to consult once again which position we will take when voting on this information. In fact, because of the publication of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, we really doubt how much such a document and agreement has been reached with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland protects the interests of Croatian citizens. In particular, the social security coordination protocol of the SSC1 contribution to the first part of the special non-indicative cash compensation has not included the National Compensation Act for the elderly. We have received an explanation from the ministry that it is a measure aimed at increasing the quality of life of older people financed from the state budget, and that it does not belong to the coordination of the social security system. I'm just going to remind you of your colleagues and colleagues what laws are and which states have entered the above-mentioned supplement. In Belgium, income is guaranteed for older people, Bulgaria's social age pension, Cyprus social pension, Greece's special benefits for older people, Hungary's non-income salary for age, Italy's social pensions for persons without their own resources, Lithuania's pension from social assistance, Poland's social pension, Portugal's non-income state old age and disability pension, Slovakia's social pension recognised before 1 January 2004, Slovenia's state pension, Spain's cash compensation as aid to older and disabled persons unable to work, Sweden's financial support for older people etc. etc. Doesn't it sound to you colleagues and colleagues that our law should have been in this supplement too?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u33864	Okay, is anyone else picking up? If not, I'll call an officer. 293, b) and we will proceed with the vote immediately. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Information shall be accepted on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the EU and the UK, V. Britain and S.J. Ireland. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 126 MPs and MPs voted, 84 for, 42 abstentions, so we concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a conclusion on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2019 adopted by the Act on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The proposal is a committee on internal policy and national security, and the debate is closed, so I am voting on the proposal for that conclusion. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 127 MPs voted, and we unanimously decided to reach a conclusion on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2019, which was adopted with the Act on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe since the prevention of terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34842	(a) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of part of the members of the National Sports Council and under (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint a part of the National Sports Council. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting: 1. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Sports Council. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted 88 for, 39 abstentions, so a decision was made as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. (b) I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a part of the National Sports Council. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 127 MPs and MPs voted, 89 for, 30 abstentions and 8 against, and a decision was taken as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34900	Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2019 The bearer is the government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2019. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 127 MPs and MPs voted, 112 for, 15 abstentions, so we concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34901	Good afternoon, everyone. The item of the agenda is: - Report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority; The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 3. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr Silvio Basic is with us and will introduce us to the basic characteristics of this law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs. This Regulation regulates the extension of the time limit for the submission of applications to reshape private practices on the basis of leases and concessions in private practice by offices for 6 months. In addition, the period of validity of the authorisation of work on the basis of leases for pharmacies, specialist offices and dental laboratories is extended to two years and the period of validity of the labour authorisation decision is extended on the basis of concessions for the activities of family medicine, paediatrics, gynecology, medical work and sports, health care in the house and medical biochemical laboratories at the primary health level of protection. These extensions are necessary in order to ensure the availability and continuity of healthcare for the population at the primary level of health care, I do not think it is necessary to stress the importance of healthcare in our country's health care system because it is practically the basis for providing health care to our citizens, which has been unusually highlighted, proved during this pandemic, and also on the earthquake of affected areas. Otherwise, in order to stop the validity of the authorisation for the work of those concessionaries and tenants under the law in the current year, a threat to the primary health care system could occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34903	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34904	Thank you very much. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to adopt the Health Protection Regulation in order not to cease to operate part of health services, from pharmacy, specialist offices, dental laboratories. Why wasn't it timely, why didn't the Ministry of Health give HS time to make this decision? What's the government doing when the council's in a constitutional holding? What's the point of bypassing Parliament, colleagues and colleagues? Why were you waiting for the last moment? So that half of the health services in the Republic of Croatia will be stopped and the government and the Ministry of Health did not do their job, and at that moment, when the Parliament did not meet, he made this decision, this Regulation? Which is why the Parliament is bypassed, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What are you treating HS and citizens for this way? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34905	Thank you. Mr. Basic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34906	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I'd like to point out that this is just in time and not bypassing the Parliament because we are now in the Parliament, and it's timely, why? Because there is a possibility in the current year that the concessions will expire... So we're extending this deadline precisely because if it can't be adequately, to ensure the legitimacy of the work, because of course it won't stop working, the work will continue but... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But given the possibility of a great one moment, a large number of applications we extended that deadline precisely to keep everything going smoothly and properly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34907	Thank you. Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34908	Dearly respected, many things in Croatia are late, unfortunately late and this reshaping of concessions into private offices, the importance of primary protection for the health of our citizens, there is, of course, an economic aspect, a lot of people earning their salary in this way, so I'm just curious, now extending the deadline means for applications, for another 6 months. Do you think all these 2,000 entities that haven't checked in yet, haven't given it up, will they be able to do it in six months or will it be another delay again?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34909	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34910	Well, we're confident there won't be any more delays. In fact, we are considering and we are confident that our colleagues in primary health care will make requests in time, and I don't think we should be apostrophysing the situation we are in, and it's really understandable that some colleagues have been waiting for the last moment, or maybe this one, slowed down in the application, since it's necessary to report the documentation, I'm not going to say whether it's extensive or not, but there are certainly a few documents that need to be obtained, and you're aware of the situation in Covid pandemic that maybe it's not as smooth and as simple as it would be, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34911	- Mrs. Crescent. Saberar-Dračevnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34912	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. My question goes towards these two previous questions. So in the 12th month, health homes began to spend already, at the end of the 12th month. This decision and I definitely agree with you, we cannot be left without such a large number of primary, primary health care offices. But what bothers me, as well as Mr. Bulja, could it have been done in due time while another half of December was held by HS, on the one hand, and on the other hand, 2,000 subjects is quite a large number. Can you tell me which county is the most significant number of these tenants who didn't turn in in time? Which county do they dominate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34913	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34914	I thank you for your question and for your comments. I would once again point out that this is exactly a timely moment because we expect in the next 6-year period to purchase a large number of requests but it was never at all questionable whether our population would be left without primary and any health care, that is a question that simply isn't in place because it can't happen, but precisely because we think that in the next period of time there will be a large number of demands, we have extended to enable them to collect all the documentation, we have extended this time period, and I reiterated the awareness and responsibility of our colleagues in primary health care, to take this just in time and to your question that the county is ahead of you, so I would say that approximately every county is represented in this problem. We expect about 2,000 new demands very soon. He would not be apostrophe of a single county or publicly calling someone because there really is no significant difference in the counties, from the city of Zagreb further... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34915	- Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34916	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Just on the trail of what you said in the previous response, do you have any idea what the current situation in which some primary protection entities operate through concessions and others as offices affects the level of quality and availability of primary protection to citizens? So, are they citizens? Does it affect whether this part of them function through concessions and others as offices affects the level of primary protection for citizens? [[Intruder Bašić: I apologize, but I did not understand you, if you could slow down a bit.]] So, are citizens or patients cut off for some of the services if someone works through concessions and others as already received approval for the office?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34917	Thank you for your question, I highly appreciate...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34918	Mr. Bashic, I'm sorry, I have to give you my word, it says in the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34919	I apologize to you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this question, just this question is on the trail of our reflections, I can immediately say that so far has not absolutely affected the level and quality of health protection of our citizens, but over time, since there have been concessionaries, we have noticed and not only us but also those before us, we have noticed that there are certain potential opportunities for this to happen, and unfortunately our thinking is that in some way a little bit more quality and better regulation of this system since a large number of concessionaries theoretically at one point can lead to a threat that they will willingly or in any other way cease to carry out their activities, which no one can force them not to do so and there is an opportunity, even though at this point, unreal but only in our thinkings, that it will happen, and that is why we are thinking that in some way that we can balance the need for concessionists and in some way to provide adequate care for our citizens in all possible conditions, which we hope will not happen. [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34920	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, every process requires a certain time and so does the process of transforming from concessions into an office, from a letter from the Croatian Medical Chamber at the end of last year when they also asked for an extension of the deadline for continuing work in private practice in the office, it was seen that the Ministry of Health was reacting without delay and that it respected all objective remarks and that the process simply requires a certain time and simply the Ministry of Health could not foresee the potential judicial disputes that certain units of regional self-government had initiated, but also the question of renting space, so on this so-called. the nonmedical part, so I agree with you that it was done in time and that this regulation was adopted on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34922	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34923	Thank you, colleague Cellic, for your reflection. I absolutely agree with that to every point. I would like to stress that we are experiencing all stakeholders in health care as our partners and our equal participants and we appreciate their but all other opinions, we are considering based on these knowledge and thinking and we are making decisions for the benefit of our household, and that is why this decision is on track. And of course we couldn't... court disputes and perhaps potentials that will take place in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34924	Thank you very much, no more envelopes, thank you. Thank you. [[Intruding Bašić: I thank everyone for the discussion.]] Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yes, go ahead. The Health Committee, right? Here you go. [[Sablar-Dračevac: Yes, the Committee on Health and Social Policy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34925	I would like to thank you once again, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Therefore, at its 12th meeting of the Committee held on 3 February 2021, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the Report on a Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. This Regulation regulates the extension of the time limits for the submission of applications to the Ministry of Health to reshape private practices on the basis of leases and concessions in private practice and in the office. In addition, the period of validity of the authorisation of work on the basis of leases for pharmacies, specialist offices and dental laboratories shall be extended to 2 years and the period of validity of the work authorisation decision shall be extended on the basis of the concession for the activities of family medicine, paediatrics, gynecology, medical work and sports, home health care and medical biochemical laboratory at the primary level of health care. During the discussion, the Committee members agreed that those extensions are necessary in order to ensure the availability and continuity of healthcare for the population at the primary level of healthcare. Otherwise, a threat to the primary health care system could occur as the transformation process is not completed by around 2000 entities for which the process of obtaining documentation should certainly be accelerated. After the debate, members of the committee unanimously, 9 for, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of this conclusion. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34926	Thank you, too. Okay, I'm opening a debate, and it's Mr. Ivan Kirin's first turn to represent the positions of the HDZ Representatives' Club on this report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34927	... A regulation amending the Health Protection Act, which extends the deadlines for the work of concessionaires and tenants, was also adopted at the meeting held on 30 December 2020 to ensure the availability and continuity of healthcare for the population at the primary level of health care. [[Specially enabled.]] Otherwise, in order to suspend the validity of the authorisation of the work of concessionaires and tenants under the law of 31 December 2020, which should have occurred, a threat to the primary health care system could have occurred. This regulation takes six months. extends the time limit to the concessionaries for the submission of applications to the Ministry of Health for the reshaping of concessions to the office, or by art. 1st Regulation, healthcare professionals may continue to carry out health activities in private practice in the office if, by 30 June 2021, they submit a request to the Ministry for the issue of a solution on the continuation of private practice. Art. 2nd Regulation, Art. In 269, it's changing and it's changing. Health professionals continue to work in private practice by renting until 31 December 2022." So far, the requests of the Ministry of Health for reshaping the concession into the office have been delivered by some 3,000 concessionaires until more than 2,000 requests have been delivered. Furthermore, for 2 years, the period of validity of the decision on the authorisation of the employees of pharmacy, specialist rental offices and dental laboratories in the lease shall be extended. 174 entities are still operating on the basis of the lease and we will now hear why the protests of some of the opposition were to be made sooner or later. Recast applications were submitted within the legal time limit but could not be resolved because they could not, at the level of the unit of the regional self-government or health institution within which they are engaged, obtain the documentation necessary for the completion of the administrative transformation procedure in which, in certain cases, water and litigation disputes related to the process of reshaping the pharmacy in the lease. This is the case of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County and the Carlovack County. Also, for 2 years, the period of validity of the decision on the approval of the work of concessionaires has been extended since the start of the concession process, the process has been completed for about half of the total number of subjects to be redesigned and the implementation of the transformation procedure for about 200 entities as we know it has not yet been initiated by the application of the Ministry of Health, for a greater part because concessionaries cannot, at the level of a health institution in the context of the activity, obtain the documentation required by law and the decisions of the Governing Council of the institutions in the contract on the lease of space. Art. 3rd Regulation, Art. 270th is amended as follows: Health professionals who exercise private practice on the date of entry into force of this law on the basis of a concession, the right to exercise private practice ends on 31 December 2020" The HDZ Club will support the regulation adopted by the Government on the basis of the legal authority to amend the Health Protection Act. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34928	Now in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the word is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will now speak for the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34929	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. It is therefore a report on the regulation adopted by the Government on the basis of legal authority. The fact is that the Government can and can adopt regulations which, with a duration of one year, are based on legal authority at the time when the Assembly does not meet, therefore, that is the constitutional break from December 15th to January 15th, or from July 15th to September 15th. And when something's important, when it's urgent, when something needs to be solved, it's brought. But in this case, this is the second regulation. This isn't the first time a regulation has been passed. Therefore, the Regulation was adopted on 18 December 2019 as the Assembly was meeting until 15 December, so 3 days after that a regulation which lasted for one year and which extended the deadline with 31 December which was set in the Health Protection Act to 31 December 2020. There was no crown, there was no earthquake, there was nothing. Last year, the parliament sat until December 18th and waited precisely for the parliament to stop sitting so that another regulation could be adopted. It's all by law, it's a fact, but it shows a fundamental problem. The main problem is that the Health Protection Act prescribes something that cannot be implemented. I can also understand that there are a number of objective circumstances why this cannot be done, that perhaps the deadlines and ways that were defined in the law were perhaps not well defined but the competent ministry decided to ignore the Parliament, bypass the parliament and go twice with a regulation that would extend the deadline itself, so that it would not come before the Parliament and go with the amendment and the addition of the law. This in the end shows the relationship of the competent ministry, shows the relationship of these governments to this body. So no one thinks that all the laws should be written most ideally, if you have a problem with some law, you see it only when you start to implement it. When you go into implementation and you see that you have a problem, it is absolutely legitimate, reasonable to make changes and additions to the law, see what the problem is and come up with that amendment and addition of the law before this Assembly. Amendments and additions to the law do not once work for an article, it is not once a matter of some things that have proved to be inconclusive but no, this ministry has decided in its plan and programme to have, ignore the Parliament. Ignore him in a way that once passed the regulation exactly a few days after the Parliament stopped sitting in 2019 and all of what the secretary of state cited as reasons, the crown, the earthquake, 2019 about the crown we knew anything or nothing, and about the earthquake that someone told us, they would say that he had a bad dream or that he threw the cards badly. So we come up with two topics that open up when we discuss this. First subject, why is the ministry doing this? Why is he putting himself in this situation? Why are you ignoring the possibility of arguing? Through the debate you can hear some suggestions, you can also hear some suggestions through public discussion because there are obviously problems. If words could be a problem, the problem would be solved, so we get to the point. At this point, according to the data we received in the explanation, 3000 offices or primary protection are re-formed according to the regulation. 2000 has not even been submitted yet. He says that for some of these waters and court proceedings. Having experience as long as our trials last, that when you think it's all that simple, that it's going on, I haven't heard anything get solved under half a year but also a year. Instead of doing an excessive analysis of why it is so, how realistic it takes time, why some have not filed a request. Maybe they don't even want to apply. Some who have submitted a request or try to resolve it cannot resolve it. It seems to me but while I am thinking extremely technical about this problem and it is to make an analysis, to see what the problem is, to see the real deadlines when it is possible to solve, to give you some phases of resolution and to make changes to the law supplement, to change two or three articles in a law that should and have a solution that is right. So these regulations that are passed when the Assembly doesn't ambush are always that siren's call. You know, you have some kind of problem, you see that you have a problem in the law, and let's now bring in the regulation, so maybe that problem when we close our eyes, the problem will be solved, we don't have to go to the Parliament in the debate in a year, we don't have to go to all that work, and there's something we saved. My experience that your shortcut is always a long way, and it has shown itself. You made a regulation in 2019, exactly a few days after the Parliament stopped sitting, on purpose, not by chance, on purpose. You've had it this time. And I don't know how uncomfortable it was for you to say and justify yourself with a crown and an earthquake, I repeat for the third time. In 2019, when you decided to do that, it wasn't. Therefore, it is clear that there is a problem, whether the problem can be solved for 2, 3 or 5 years, I know about it relatively little, and I can't even say it at all, but what I do know, if you have problems, if you see this problem going on, then give it an analysis, systematically solve it in the law, and don't do this, we're not little children, we know why you did it, just so you don't open it up, discuss it through the amendment and the addition of the law, the regulation was a shorter way, but believe me, you've decided twice on the short path. I'm not sure that's enough for you twice, and in the end you'll come back and you could have solved it in 2019 when you saw that there was a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34930	- Mrs. Crescent. Ruzica Vukovac will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34931	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Therefore, since it is the main reason behind the regulation that around 2,000 concessionaries have not applied for work in private practice in the office, in front of the Home Movement Club, I ask the question of how many concessionaries submitted the application in 2020 and by the end of 11 months respectively. In 2020 they have not received a solution, given that the legal deadline within which the ministry is to adopt a solution to the Article. Point 55. Health care law for 30 days? Namely, information from the field speaks about the slowness of the administration in the ministry and that the deadline is significantly exceeded and that even now there are concessionaires who have submitted a request in the past year and have not received a solution. In addition to this thesis, a letter from the Croatian Medical Chamber to the 15th Ministry could also go to the Croatian Medical Chamber. 12. In 2020, where they state that a solution for 920 entities has been issued by that date, and for as much as 850 no, according to their data. Due to this delay or disrespect of the legal deadline for issuing a 30-day solution, the ministry has caused material damage to the concessionary doctors because their county concessions are charged with concession compensation until the moment of obtaining a solution to work in private practice in the office and the tenants pay them according to the new revised lease contracts, which are generally significantly higher than those of the earlier concessions, or the previous Health Protection Act, when, by decision of the Minister of 2015, the sum of the concession and the lease was limited to 1500 kn without VAT. Has the ministry shown its hostile and ignoring attitude towards family doctors like the 17th of last year when the minister did not show up at a meeting he did not invite them to to consult on the organisation of vaccinations or perhaps when the minister called them on several occasions last year because of their unhappiness? It also states as one of the reasons why the concessionaires are unable to obtain requested documentation from institutions in which they are located and data from the field suggests that units of the district self-government have delayed decision-making for the founding institutions, which are therefore a prerequisite for applying for work in private practice in the office and that neither one of the others has suffered any consequences for the eclative non-compliance of legal deadlines despite and warning letters from the Ministry of Health itself. Why did the ministry not use the Institute of Administrative Control and sanctioned those responsible in the institutions, so directors and boards of directors and in the county and the Guard of Zagreb? Probably because in most counties as well as the institution is still HDZ's temper at the head. The question now arises as concession contracts expire 31. 12. In 2020, how can the Government adopt a regulation with a legal force extending the status of concessionaries to 31. 12. In 2022, although according to the old Health Protection Act, the beneficiaries of the concession are the beneficiaries. Concentrations, exclusively units of regional self-government and the City of Zagreb? The damage caused by obstruction, slowness and disservice of the administration in the homes of health, pharmacy, county or the City of Zagreb and the Ministry of Health has obviously been resolved. I further ask why the continued discrimination of healthcare professionals private workers in the concession and under the terms of the pandemic i.e. why the State or units of the district self-government have not distributed sufficient amounts of protective equipment and funds to them, although they are obliged to do so with private healthcare professionals in accordance with Article. 4. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases and thus actually discriminate against patients who have chosen a doctor in private practice? Sources from my county say they were delivered only symbolic quantities of protective equipment worth several hundred kunas. It would also help us with a written answer that the value of the equipment in the pandemic was delivered to private healthcare professionals, and why is the distribution not organised through their associations but through their health homes? The landing is a question of relatively high leases for ambulances, especially in rural and assisted areas, and the question of discriminatory contractual relations with tenants where they are asked to maintain space, although decentralised funds for these functions are exclusively obtained by public institutions? Also, health homes have totally scheduled for the dynamics and scope of the call for specialization in primary health care. We're looking for an answer on Day 31. 12. 2020 so-called teams without carriers and how many insurance companies in Croatia do not have a doctor selected in primary health care by activity? By making a deal, so-called. teams without carriers shall lose any sense of primary health care and, in particular, family medicine if the team does not have a carrier or a constantly contracted physician. Thanks to this carelessness for the education of new specialists in primary health care and unfair working conditions in primary health care, we will soon experience a situation where rural and undeveloped areas will be left without a doctor. All I'm going to do is give an example of the Ship-Posavina County I come from. Currently, the Home of Health Slavonski Brod has a specialization in family medicine 3 doctors who already are team holders, i.e. They will not replace their colleagues who will retire for the next five years but return to their team. There is no specialization in pediatrics, nor is there one in gynecology, although some teams of these services are now being made by retired doctors or those who were to retire. Last week General Hospital Dr. Josip Bencevic in Slavonski Brod has opened a tender for 21 specialists. A County Emergency Medicine Office for 10 doctors working on an indefinite amount of 20 of them according to the network. On the other hand, in primary health care in the area of Health Home Slavonski Brod, there are already 12 doctors who have obtained the conditions for retirement and over the next 5 years there are 17 more doctors. Do you think that in addition to just this year, 21 specializations will be made at Brodska hospital and with the lack of 10 doctors at the County Emergency Medicine Institute, 29 young doctors will find themselves to replace their colleagues in family medicine and primary gynaecology and pediatrics in the area where only 5 or 6 doctors leave school annually. Given the current measures and the organisation of primary health care, I still don't think so. Such an organization and carelessness will soon lead to a great lack of doctors in the private health care system, mainly in rural and deprived areas of Croatia and endanger the health of residents of these areas and make the system unsustainable. I therefore propose a special agenda item of the Parliament on the further organisation and sustainability of private health care in Croatia, with an emphasis on the availability and continuity, the status and status of doctors in private health practice and thus in connection with the harmonisation of legal provisions with the suggestions of the Croatian Medical Chamber and the professional associations of doctors in primary health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34932	Now it's Mr. Domagoj Price's turn to represent the SDP's Club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34933	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Health care concessionaries play an important role in the health system of Croatia. By providing health services, they help maintain the overall health of our fellow citizens. In addition, they employ healthcare professionals and by paying concessions to participate in the salaries of auxiliary staff and the cost of directing their homes of health. So they're important from a health, social and economic aspect. The concessionaires must submit requests to reshape private practices on the basis of concessions and leases, on the basis of concessions and leases in the private practice of the office. In Croatia, there are 5,000 concessionaires, out of those 5,000, in the last 2 years, only 3,000 have submitted a request to reshape the concession into the office, while 2,000 more have not done so. That is why this Regulation is adopted in order to extend the deadline to do so by 6 months. First of all, this is an indicator of the slowness of the system that this job should already do, but like many other things in Croatia, it is unfortunately a helmet. The only option is to extend the time limit so as not to endanger the primary protection system itself. All of this is not necessary because of the earlier delay, all of this is needed because of an earlier delay where 2,000 subjects have not yet been able to submit the request. In addition, for 2 years, the period of validity of the labour authorisation decision is extended, on the basis of leases for dental laboratories, pharmacies and specialist offices, and the period of validity of the labour authorisation decision based on concessions for the following activities: gynaecology, dental medicine, health care in the house, medical work and sports, medical and chemical laboratories and pediatrics. So far, concessionaries competing for patients have been a quality part of the health system. The quality of the service tried to get patients, and the patients could choose whose services they would use. Such a situation provided a choice for patients and resulted in a better quality of service that patients could receive in this way. They financed their incomes from health care homes, as well as the salaries of auxiliary staff. So we see other than health benefits and positive consequences for the economy. What needs to be pointed out is that with the fact that the process of transforming from concession to private office has not started yet 2,000 entities, but out of the 3,000 that started the process, only for half is the same process over. So only about 1,500 concessions were converted into private offices of 5 thousand, only one third of the total. Unfortunately, we see that the slowness that Croatian citizens often attribute to the state and exist here. We must also point out that in the case of the reshaping of a part of the pharmacy, judicial disputes related to the transformation are being conducted in the lease. In these cases, requirements were submitted within the time limit but could not obtain the necessary documentation at the level of a health institution or a unit of regional (regional) self-government. So, not only is the health care system not doing the job, but the result is now being driven by disputes that burden one other system, the judicial system, how problems are multiple in Croatia. Therefore, this Regulation extends the period of 6 months to the concessionaires, to apply to the Ministry of Health for reshaping the concession into the office. Note, this is already the second extension of deadlines. We can only hope that this is the last extension and that everything that needs to be solved will be resolved within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34934	In front of the club, no, individually though. So we start with individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34935	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, extending to reshaping concessions into the office, who's to blame for disobeying deadlines? The concessionaries aren't. What about the founders? Do the founders, the counties, the legal frameworks brought by this Parliament, and you in this, the dislikable county that are essentially just a brake of development, not just health care in the Republic of Croatia, but are essentially a factory of unnecessary people who don't do their jobs, most or most of it, here, see what happens to health care? What about the founders in this story? So mostly, they're mostly county. I can only say that we can discuss this regulation, although I am personally in favour of that these things which are legal levels should be discussed by the Parliament, and not later on, in fact, the government's regulation to discuss now. This is a serious situation that persists at the level of the county, essentially avoiding the responsibilities of the mayors and those who are responsible and health homes in essence, the services of health to our citizens are essentially weaker and increasingly unreachable. Mostly in rural areas. I can only say that in Split-Dalmatia County, in Makarska, for example, we don't have a laboratory, so we have to leave Makarska, when the blood is removed, we have to stop in Kaštel, so Hvar has to come to Split and when they block south, so simply when the boat can't, when we don't have a ferry, then simply these people don't have a health service. Thus, in Dalmatinska Zagorje, due to its founders, when it was a fusified home of health in 2002 in a unique home of health, there were 13 health homes in Split-Dalmatia County, and otherwise, what an injustice and which these Regulations are insignificant, half of the county has only one home of health fused in the county, in one county, for example, in Ličko-Senj County, which is less than the Cetin area by population, have 2 or 3 home health. For example, Dubrovnik also, more homes of health, and in Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county has a home-centralised home of health. And all power is centralized in one place, and 500 thousand inhabitants in Split-Dalmatia County and the schedule of the county, surface, territorially, however we take the most complicated. We've got islands, we've got backwaters, we've got the property area, we've got the Cetina landscape, we've got this part of Zagor, we've got the Castellan hinterland, we've got a big second town, it's Split, and it's absolutely not working there and they don't understand things because people don't have services, we don't have specialists, we don't have radiologists, we have a problem that we don't have, there't have anyone to examine our women on the UZV breast. These are things we need to see what the founders are doing. Six months later, women were waiting to sign up for breast examination. Six months and then that day would be a row of a few, I mean so busy that a number of women didn't even sign up, who would have been lucky to sign up to have them checked out in six months, and some have never been able to, unfortunately, to perform a review. So serious primary protection in the Republic of Croatia as the basis of health care, as the basis of the survival of people in these areas, di triangulate to encourage doctors, give them the best conditions in rural areas because who will stay somewhere di has no primary health care? Who's gonna stay if my son doesn't have a pediatrician this afternoon? Fifty thousand people are gravitating only the Sinja and the Cetina region. Because of these problems, these regulations are essentially stemming from the negligent and negligent founders, which are counties that have not provided specialisations. Here until the back of the year two days in 2000 since Split-Dalmatia County was founded, there were no specialists from the Cetin region, but these doctors had to go to the specialisation in Gospić, Osijek, which is why such a relationship with our undeveloped regions? Well, of course we're going to have a demographic downturn, we need to do everything we can to get primary doctors, labs, specialists, specialist offices, to have the best conditions, doctors. We must, as a society, do so, it is our obligation to those parts that are also at risk of war, which are also forgotten, and the county as founder does not do so publicly and loudly. And these regulations can be passed every day, however, health services are due to non-compliance with the law Countys are essentially brakes of development, i.e. They [[Intruder: Time.]] are gravediggers of our health service, mainly [[Intruder: Time.]] primary health care. [[You've got it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34936	You have a replica, Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34937	... I suppose my colleague Bulj talked to you about people who are in that position that still, that concessionaries, that they have problems about this, so this is a matter of our fellow citizens' health, but of course it's also a question of the existence of people who work in these practices. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: microphone, microphone.]] Do you think, I really hope as a citizen that through, with this extension of six months that this will be settled in the next six months. The question would be to tell me later, do you think this will be resolved in the next six months, that these 2,000 subjects will submit those requests? Also, I'm asking if it might be, could it be, I ask you, when we talk, when we know the system, you're a longer representative, do you think maybe if the Ministry of Health were to talk directly to those who haven't done it at the county level with health institutions, could they motivate them at the county level, to speed up those who haven't done their job yet?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34938	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34939	So I would say once again that since the counties became, I can say about the Split-Dalmatia County where I live, and so it is in most counties, since there has been no 13 health homes in one central home of health, that it is one of the worst decisions and that by centralization, it is mainly this largest county that has slightly less than half a million people done great damage, both to people due to services, to the people of the region, and to employees, i.e. medical staff who should work in these areas because it is simply visible from the fact that the more we lose services, we lose people, we lose the interest of our doctors, and not only that, but it is not enough or prescribed specialization. If this decision were to be made after the delay, I do not believe, on the issue of county as founders who did not do their job because if they did, they would not have been brought into this position of poor health services and lack of doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34940	And Mr. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34941	Thank you, well-respected colleague, in your presentation, you have brought forth a lot of problems that we actually recognize, especially those of us working in the health system, from the lack of distribution of offices in rural or urban areas, to the fact that here, it is late with some legal solutions, so that the regulations that re-long all these deadlines are made faster and better. I have to say that here, I haven't arrived at the State Secretary's presentation, but on the board about what you said about the units of local self-government, because on the board when I asked why the problem was, did the ministry orally and in writing send letters to the board of directors, the units of local self-government, to speed up the issue of documentation, the answer was, but I can't do anything to them. So it's sad that actually the ministry can't solve the problem that exists on the ground because you have on the one hand the founders, on the other hand you have a ministry, and the problems exist and are not solved, so I'm afraid that the dissatisfaction that exists in the family The medicine will take some more time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34942	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34943	So here you have pointed out certain problems, that we have a ministry that is responsible for implementing this law, we have inspections, but I repeat again, the key problem is the founder. The Founder receives funds, i.e. The decentralised money for health services, health care and the fact that the founder is all of this. However, if the founder does not do his job, it is the county, I can repeat it 100 times for the Split-Dalmatia County because I know with people in the interview and those who are concessionaries, i.e. Doctors in both private practice and in the home health system, and with citizens themselves, that services are getting worse and that our doctors have no interest in staying in this area anymore because they are forgotten, left to themselves, left to themselves, and that is a very devastating policy, not only do we have health services, but it will continue to be a fall of demographic decline. of which, if we don't have good health services, at least primary protection and some others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34944	- Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34945	Thank you, Vice President, here is often you in your discussions mention Licko-Senj County, most often it is in some context in which we show us worse than we are and it is really something we do not need. Here I would like to correct your claim, so from Lika-Senj County there are 5 health homes, Gospić, Otokac, Korenica, Senj and Novalja. In this respect, citizens are indeed, as in all parts of Croatia are not deprived of primary health care because health homes are not only meant for family medicine, there is dental protection, physical, among some and ophthalmology, there is the activity of sanitary transport. Lika-Senj County also has a General Hospital in Gospić which covers the needs of the population, and everything that is not done there, of course, is driven to Rijeka, Zadar or Zagreb, so please respect this and provide accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34946	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34947	Well, I also said that Ličko-Senj County, which is smaller by the number of inhabitants that has more homes of health, has only made a comparison and it is positive that it is so in Ličko-Senj County, but it is an injustice towards Split-Dalmatia County, according to other counties, Sibenik-Kninski which have fuziered the homes of health, i.e. 3 have in Sibenik-Nin, and Split-Dalmatia County has only one home of health, that's what I wanted to tell you. I said as a positive example or example, you have a hospital in Gospić, we have a hospital in Knin and so our nurses, medical staff who travels from Sinj and Split to a Knin hospital that could unload the Sibenik and Split hospitals, the only one in Zagora, people don't receive, they haven't received travel expenses, it's 7 or 8 months now. So we have a problem. So even in Ličko-Senj County, I made a comparison that would tribale return an old model which is examples in Lika-Senj County and the other 10 counties, and in Split-Dalmatia County is a fusified home of health and services are becoming weaker and less and less and less we have the interest of a doctor to stay in these areas Because of the lack of concern of the founder, which is the county, which is the undertaker [[Intruder: Thank you.]] health services. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34948	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Maja Grba-Bujevic is on his way now. Here you go. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34949	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleague Kramaric. Now, I would actually say something a little bit more perhaps about primary health care today. Thank you, fellow Bashic, who, as State Secretary, said that primary health care is the foundation of a health care system. This is unusually important to repeat as many times as it will take for this speaker and beyond. Primary health care is also important in the context of this Covid epidemic that we have. We ourselves have witnessed that other parts of the health system have been heavily burdened in, such as our epidemiologists, such as our public health specialists, as well as hospitals. In primary health care, however, a large number of family medicine doctors have really made a huge contribution to get out of this epidemic with a satisfactory service to all of our citizens. They also helped epidemiologists, and in this vaccination, you know, it's a very large role for family doctors who triage patients, who go to vaccination in order, who know their patients and thus actually give the opportunity to split, participate in large, large vaccinations, so if we have organized mass vaccinations and that's something that we can't, we can't forget. Thank God, vaccination goes well, given the resources we have, it goes well so that these doctors are actually doing a great job part of the job, and it's unusually important because vaccination is what will lead us to survive this period in which we need to get rid of Covid and get back to our normal lives, and that solidarity is extremely important that we all understand here, that all doctors and all nurses and all citizens will be able to get back to that normal way of life without vaccination. Of course, there are also some challenges that we are talking about today through this decision. The process has its duration and these processes are very difficult to influence. This decision is therefore good in order to allow this primary health care to continue as the basis of healthcare providers. Some non-medical or we can call them the technical problems necessary for an overall solution that serves to improve the quality of services provided by primary health care and family medicine and dental medicine as key team holders. Let's say for example. Unsolved property relations for the premises in which concessionaries are located, litigation disputes related to the process of reshaping the pharmacy in the lease. These are objective problems that were envisaged in this process, however, these processes are very difficult to influence, so we all know that. And that's why it's just that this decision has to be made, to extend, of course, I'm sure that everyone in the ministry wanted this decision not to be made, that it's all over together and that we've moved on to this form that we wanted in accordance with the Law of Health. Therefore, thanks again for the end to counterpart Bashic, who said that primary health care is the basis of the health care system in the Republic of Croatia. She is, and we have to work so hard together to make her even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34950	Thank you. You have several replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34951	Thank you. Your Honor, here I absolutely agree that primary health care is the absolute foundation of every healthcare system, especially the public health system that we are supposed to have but now I'm interested in how do you see that concessioning services in health care has affected the quality of primary health care services, the comprehensiveness of these services, and the possibility of home health to achieve the principle of comprehensiveness of services at that level? Because what we can certainly see is that in the last 10 to 15 years, the quality of the service has fallen precisely in primary health care and the pressure has increased to secondary and tertiary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34952	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34953	Dear fellow Members, with the work of yours, of course I will agree and in part I would still like to explain some things. So, this whole primary health care system, we agreed it was very important. That is why the process shows that some things can be improved, and that is why improvements are being made. We don't need to see if it's some kind of, I know what you're actually thinking, whether there's an ambulance in the home of health, or whether it's an ambulance as a concessionary or an ambulance, but it's supposed to look at the comprehensiveness it provides, that's the most important thing. That's why I'm going to tell you that regardless of whether or not the hospital that's in the health care home or in the hospital that's in the concession, some new technologies are being introduced, like telemedical services, and now in any infirmary, let's say we can go to Sinj, I'll answer you in someone else. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34954	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujević, the COVID epidemic time has pointed to the functionality and sustainable Croatian health system, of course, not to run away from the problem and strengthen the public health system is not only imperative for the Republic of Croatia but also for other EU member states. If we look at funding through European funds, then it is precisely about empowering the public health system, primary health care is the basis of a sustainable Croatian health system, which should only be mentioned, therefore, COVID clinics that were not only in large cities but also in cities like Metkovic, such as Daruvar where family doctors have taken over their part but I want to point out here that local self-government units have a very strong role to play in line with these amendments of the Law in health care to help young doctors get into their areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34956	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34957	Dear counterpart Celic, this was precisely the intention of changing when the amendments and additions of the Law were made to health care, to allow units of local administration and self-government to have the opportunity to influence themselves the creation of works of their county's health response. As we know, all counties are not the same, all counties have other specific goals regarding health care, addictions of course both on economic status and needs, on distances, is not the same everywhere. Since this is the case, local units are the ones that need to create answers to the entire system of their work of health, not only primary health care but have a special role in primary health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34958	- Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34959	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujević, you spoke of the importance of family doctors, especially during these days and during the pandemic of COVID. We've heard a lot of criticism today, and it's mostly financial. We all know when we're looking for and we want a favor, when we need a favor to want as much service as possible and the better and the more expensive medicine, when it's necessary to set aside for health insurance, then we all want that percentage to be as small as possible. I'd just like one piece of information to point out here, for example. Since the designation of the epidemic, related only to the cost of testing for diseases from COVID until 31 December 2020, more than €647 million has been spent. Well, here's just enough for our citizens to know how much they spend on their incomes and how much money is spent on this one basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34960	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34961	Thank you, colleague Branka, for just mentioning it because it's just one piece of cake, it's 680 million kuna just for testing. We need to know that the respirator was obtained, that it was obtained... the device, that was purchased all the protective equipment, that the redecoration of individual hospitals for the purpose of care of COVID patients, so many COVID patients also cost money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Treatment, medications, so the COVID supplement the government has arranged for healthcare professionals who work with COVID patients, so that's all the things that will count naturally in billions. In such conditions he also cared for non - COVID patients, whom he really should have cared about as well. And that's why it takes me once more as a health care worker, let me say that this great thank you goes to all health care professionals and unhealthy workers, and we often forget them, who took part in that response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34962	- Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34963	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, with a lot of what you said in your presentation, I absolutely agree, I will go to this second act, where we all agree again that there are a lot of units of local self-government in solving property-legislative relations, unresolved court processes, etc., and yet I stress that this ministry must find ways to encourage units of local self-government to solve those submitted requests and documents, let alone for those who have not been solved. Now I'm going to look back at that first part you said, again I absolutely agree on the importance of primary health care, its contribution, the fight against the pandemic. You've talked a lot about vaccination, talk about COVID hospitals, but we can agree that there are dissatisfactions about family medicine, primarily about receiving. You know well how they receive doctors who work in a home of health, how they are concessionaries. Now, as far as COVID is concerned, so many of the doctors from the family's hospitals have been working at COVID's hospitals as well. and in triage spaces but they're not [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] They were equally treated and had no one to turn to about that famous COVID supplement. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34964	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34965	Dear colleagues, as I know, so do you know that concessionaries are actually themselves employers, don't you agree with me? And I'm sure no one has prevented themselves from adding that supplement to their salary because, as you know, these revenues are not small and from these revenues, it's certainly possible for them to actually be themselves and their sister who they worked with because they also worked on these COVID teams and clinics, in this way to be rewarded as it was by the government's decision and made. That's what I mean, I thought it was going on, but now I hear from you that... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34966	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34967	Thank you very much. My colleague Bujevic, I'd just like to tell you the illogicalities that are in the system... very simple. [[The speaker doesn't understand, technical problems.]] So the largest county, Split-Dalmatia, has one home of health fusiran, once 13 homes of health, now one. A lot less counties have 4, 5, 6 and that's okay. It's okay, but why is Split-Dalmatia County actually 13? There has been a problem in this largest Split-Dalmatia county, at all levels of health services, from general practice or primary health care to others, due to the lack of work and neglect of centralisation in one place, that is the problem. I'm talking about the problem here and the regulations won't solve anything, believe me, because there's no such situation in the field. You are also leading and leading emergency medicine to the Republic of Croatia, and countless times with all the efforts of the doctor, often remain a closed emergency medicine where our people come to a closed door and have an emergency. So we're having trouble fuzzing. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34968	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34969	As you esteemed colleagues, you think we have a problem with association, so some of us often hear such ones, say that there is a problem because something, colleague Bulj, I ask you nicely, don't comment because now I'm taking my replica to your replica, so that's the courtesy that's in this House, I would ask you nicely. So different opinions and different attitudes are different. When you have a lot of health care facilities in your area, I'm going to give you one particular thing, to be really specific. So, when you have 6 homes of health, as there is, say, in Karlovac County, then let's say, employees when you don't have someone to work for you in that one infirmary, in another one that belongs to another home of health, then you can't direct that employee there to provide health care to people, that's the most important thing that people get health care for, and so you could still get a lot, a lot more to list.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34970	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34971	Thank you. So what we all agreed is that primary health care is an absolute pillar and a basis for the realisation of the right access to health and health services, but we are also all sitting here aware that in the last 10, 15, 20 years, this system is actually being destroyed and that it comes down more and more to the administration of manuals and prescriptions and increasingly less and less to the fact that the doctor can actually deal with the patient and deal with diagnostics. The services at the level of primary health care that we have and in scope are becoming less and in fact there is a tendency which is not only unfortunately a tendency in Croatia, that more and more diagnostics are actually being examined, etc., shifts to secondary, especially tertiary health care, which is what we are actually gathering a health system but we are making it less available, especially for those living in certain areas, rural areas, which are therefore not urbanised, in which there is no direct access to such protection. So, data from 2018 say that family medicine doctors were among them at the time about 65% of concessionaires compared to 35% of doctors employed in homes of health. Also, the concessionaries themselves said that the number of patients they have far exceeds what they can process daily and that they should actually process more than 100 patients daily. In addition, all previous authorities have established a system that encourages actually a large number of patients because a significant part of the income comes, so on and so on. The mains, i.e. by the number of patients that someone has- What's problematic is that in that case neither the patient is satisfied because he can't get enough, enough time, enough time from his doctor, nor can he get the service he needs to get, but he's also dissatisfied and that concessionary who can't actually do his job, either at the end of the day is adequate and all for that, for that to be paid and I say comes down to the administrator. It's amazing to me that the National Health Development Strategy is until 2020. It was established before 9 years ago. It has established that the introduction of a concession into primary health care has weakened continuity and comprehensive health care, which was formerly a feature of home health. So, we have established this ourselves in the National Health Development Strategy. It is also said that there are almost no group practice interdisciplinary teams in primary health care, that in many places there are difficulties in organising continuous primary health care, and in finding replacements for healthcare professionals, that there is no adequate communication between doctors of family medicine, patronage nurses, pharmacists and other healthcare professionals. So, very often, patients ask to skip primary levels and seek medical services directly in hospitals. That's what we found out nine years ago. And we still have the same system. In the meantime, he changed a little in terms of billing, the way in which it is calculated, etc. But what we haven't done is we haven't eliminated what we've found to have led to a deterioration in primary health care and we're still maintaining that so-called. The frankenst system that the thread is completely public, and the thread is private and it does not ultimately benefit the patient, nor, nor does it benefit that concessionary. What has also been established is that such a system prevents the implementation of preventive programmes and does not suit it, but also diagnostics that have shifted to secondary and tertiary protection. So, what's the question, why don't we have a report here and a thorough debate on whether the system that we're concessioning health care services has contributed to the quality of availability of healthcare services especially at the primary level for our patients or not, and if we're not going to change it, and we're establishing in basic development documents, strategic development of health care we find that it's not and we're doing nothing about it. That's not clear to me that after nine years. what we've established We didn't do anything. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34972	Thank you. But you have replicas, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Bencic, this is the Report on the Regulation, so we can also organise a report on the parent board on the outcomes of the last amendments to the Health Protection Act. You have rightly mentioned the consequences of the transition is the deterioration of the health care home system, the Andrija Printer model is applied by Scandinavian countries and very successfully. So the specialist consular activity in the health care homes is weakened by what you said. I'm interested in the fact that emergency medical services are overloaded, and I'm interested in your view of the practice of certain countries that charge services if a person comes to emergency medical care, and not an emergency, how do you view the situation and the measure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34975	Thank you. Yes, I do not view it positively as charging people because they come to an ambulance, many of them, of course, are unable to assess what kind of service they need at that time. Very often, of course, we also have a large share of the elderly population who, of course, at the moment he thinks he needs a health care service, goes where he'll get it the fastest. What's problematic isn't that they're going to the ambulance. The problem is that they do not trust that he will receive the service he needs in his home of health. We've weakened our health homes so much that the only thing people go to the home of health is a guide to send them somewhere else and that's problematic. And it's not the doctors' fault, it's the system that didn't allow them to deal with medicine, but it's a lot of the way they do, and you know for sure they're dealing with administration and dealing with the fact that since we have a small number of doctors, too few doctors in the primary health care system that they can't really commit to a patient for 20 minutes how many guidelines, how many guidelines they say they should.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34976	Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34977	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bencic, among other things, you said that some family doctors have too many patients and that it is impossible to process quality in one day. Since we're talking about concessionaries here, which means we're talking about family doctors who actually have private status. There are those family doctors who really want to get a head start, so they have up to 2,000 patients, but there are those doctors who have only 80, 88 now I found quickly. Therefore, there are those who want as many patients as possible to make as much income as possible. The same thing you said when you said that basically primary health care comes down to what you'd say you'd be instructed to keep going to a specialist. There are extremely high-quality family doctors, here in my Guides who each year are equipped with new devices and provide a service more, of course there are patients more, more chieftains and the greater amount they get. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34978	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34979	I'd be happy to answer that question. I don't even transfer responsibility to these doctors who have 2,000 patients to hunt for their head. Yeah, maybe it's not moral anyway. However, who manages the healthcare system in Croatia, the doctors concessionaires, doctors private, doctors in general or state? So, we set up a system that makes them do it because we haven't set performance indicators based on their results, based on, for example, the implementation and effectiveness of different prevention programs, so we don't have any more than we have to do in a way that you type in as many people as possible so that the fixed part is as big as possible and, of course, some do that. Of course, there are also those we can say that they give up a significant portion of their income to provide a quality service, but it is the system that must not encourage these others, and we have created a system that encourages them to do so. We can't count on their morality We need to count on the quality of the system that we [[Intruder: Thank you.]] This is where we make the law. [[Thank you, ma'am. Bencice.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34980	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Tale is in line with the replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34981	Dear colleagues. The transformation process, so from concession to private office started two years ago, so so far only 3 out of 5 thousand have submitted requests. I am saying this because today it has been mentioned that it may have been the cause of the corona which has not been working faster, but the crown has certainly been a problem in Croatia for the past year, but this could certainly have been done, especially since the process lasted 2 years. The only thing I can say is that I hope that the future will speed up the transformation, and I hope that today's debate in the Assembly will still encourage institutions to do their job a little faster, since they have not done it so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34982	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34983	Thank you. Well, here's my point of view here is that public health is public health. And that it is private and that our task is to take care of the system and the quality of public health, that public health workers must have a secure, well-paid quality job, as well as working time, as well as working conditions. But that we can't do the Frankenstein systems where they're like privates, but they're not actually privates because they're actually paid and they're conditioned by the state. I am for it, absolutely, that health care homes are part of a public health system where doctors, nurses, who are public, so they're not private, they're public, employees in the public sector, and let's split it up so that we know what's public and what's private. Because this mixing didn't lead to good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34984	Thank you, no more replicas, and now it's time for the final debate of the Bridge and which Mr. Bulj will have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34985	Here I would say in the end that this Regulation essentially does not solve what we have complicated, and a colleague from the ruling majority himself said that we had the Andrija Printar system that took over the Scandinavian states that have the best health system organized and most socially sensitive, however, we have made our health system, primarily primary health care of a strange beaker, where we have left health professionals to ourselves, and especially that people in the areas of the Republic of Croatia who are underdeveloped areas of mountain-mountan, we have also left, without services. I would just say, here, my colleague Bujević said, that it is better to have a less, that the fusified home of health, some reasons why, but isn't it strange, I am glad that in Ličko-Senj County, and even smaller counties, Dubrovnik County, non-retvainska, we have more homes of health, but it is amazing that the county where the second city is the largest in Croatia, Split and Split-Dalmatia County, which is otherwise the configuration of which is, only the Cetin region has more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County, but we don't have health homes, but it's a fused home of health and we have created a strange beak and we always forget who is guilty in this law enforcement. The Founder doesn't do anything. So in Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county was fused by 13 homes of health. Well, that's why in Makarska, the coast, in Makarska, we don't have a lab, so when we get the blood out of the Macarani, the sea, it has to be transported to Kaštel. It's the same on Hvar. When they shut down the south, when they can't transport the ferry, these people can't make the findings. And I'm speaking here in fact, in the Cetina region, you mentioned Vrlika and Sinj, you were, I don't know, still at the head of the Emergency Medicine Office, colleague Bujevic. So you know how many times our people, how many times they've come to a closed door, with all the effort and praise we give to people who work in the health system. It's just a huge field. There's been a car accident, there's often few teams, and people come with their child who's been compromised, comes to a closed door, do you know how many times it's happened? There was a child, he had an object in his throat, and it was choking, it was barely saved, if it hadn't been for that, if it had happened overnight, the ambulance had been out there, if it hadn't been for the general practice of this family medicine doctor, there would have been a terrible problem. Closed door. Not by the guilt of the people from the emergency and the medicine, the doctors, they make a big contribution, they try, it's a big field, but it's so unfair for these parts of health services and the way they're distributed. You've made a strange beak out of the best health system in Andrija Stampar who's taken over the Scandinavian states and you've made some beak, and you don't know if it's private, whether it's public, whether it's like this, whether it's like that, and the county's actually using it. Countys as founders or they don't care. You've centralized the largest home of health in one, the largest centralized, 13 health homes you've brought together in one and I'm glad, my colleague just said about the person who has four, the tribal would be five, I'm glad that in Sibenik-Knin County they have three, but it's hard to see that medical staff in a hospital in one Zagora in Knin have no travel expenses for 7 months with this Covid crisis, those traveling from Sinj, Split, that's 300 km, up to 300 km a day. They don't have travel expenses for medical personnel travelling to these hospitals, which is the owner and founder, to repeat, the county. Hospitals of Kninska, Croatian Pride, Veteran General Hospital. The only hospital in Dalmatia is on fire. That's why we have a number of problems, a colleague from Like who mentioned that I speak negatively, no, in fact, positive, and when he was Minister Milinović, then he thought about closing services in Split-Dalmatia County, mainly in my Sinj. We don't care. So why didn't we take some kind of, uh, Scandinavian example that was in us? Nothing's wrong with what happened before, nothing's wrong, you're the smartest one in the world, you've ruined everything. And we don't have a doctor, people in rural areas are left without services, people are demographically dropping because we don't have doctors. If Sweden took that model, what are we ashamed of? What are we ashamed of? Yourself? Our model? That is why this regulation will not contribute anything except that we will be burning fire on this health care problem, mainly our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34986	And now, finally, on behalf of the motionary, the secretary of state, Mr Silvio Basic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34987	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed MPs and MPs. I would like to thank you for this discussion and for your reflections because the Ministry of Health, his one teamwork in which he really listens and thinks about all the thoughts, all the subjects involved in health care, and we especially appreciate and love the remarks and objections because those in some way, when we analyze the grudges, can focus us on certain issues, can direct us to the final decision-making of our decisions, too, can only strengthen us in attitudes and in some of our thinking, so it is always good to listen to someone else's opinion. I am sorry that, and even those who say themselves, as some here have said, they are not quite professional in this area, but their opinion is extremely important because only the well-being of our citizens is motivated. So, every opinion is good, I'm sorry that some councilmen, MPs aren't here, and that says how much they appreciate someone else's opinion, but good. I would just like to clarify a few articles, because it is impossible to answer with these questions that have been considered and which have been asked within such a short period of time. I would like to clarify for the sake of our viewers who are watching us, that this is about two acts, not one regulation but different ones, it was mentioned, the 2019 regulation, namely, it concerned the tenant, the tenant and the concessionaires not the same. I would also like to point out that this regulation is kind of proactive because we cannot ignore the fact that some colleagues have not expired concessions, that they will expire only in the next period of time, that they have applied in time, but that is one large amount of documentation, which must be processed. I agree with my colleague Bul, that this regulation will not change the health system, of course it will not, it was not the intention of this regulation but simply to ensure the continuity of health care legally, legally and formally, and responsible as a doctor, I say that health care will never endanger our citizens, that it will not be endangered and that it will always be provided in a satisfactory manner. After all, when I mentioned... I mentioned it precisely in this light because health care professionals from the area immediately made themselves available to emergency workers whose homes were destroyed, immediately came to the emergency room and wanted to help their citizens, and the doctor of the family medicine that had been destroyed, who had no transportation, patronage sisters, went on tractors and various other motor vehicles until the Croatian Army joined to take care of their citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as a doctor, as an employee, as a member of this healthcare system, I responsibly claim that there will never be health and provision of services to our citizens denied in any segment. Also, thank you for apostrophe of some problems, a number of problems of the health system, which we don't run about, namely, they are there, we perceive them, I'm not afraid of getting involved with them, and we plan to improve the health system, and that's why we didn't go into the changes of the law, because we're waiting to make a complete one of this idea of health change and reform, and then we're going to go into a change of law, to avoid that the law changes multiple times, which, after all, is not the point of the law. It has been commented and respected that there are insufficient doctors, that only 5 doctors leave the university for a year, that is not true, but it is neither the subject of this ministry but the Ministry of Education, but would only point out that 300 doctors are enrolled annually, or 300 students... in Zagreb, however... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About 180 of these other universities, therefore, are planned on a sufficient number of healthcare professionals, and why some do not want to go to rural and demographic areas, then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although, we must say that this ministry and this government are extremely concerned about these areas, and of course, that, in particular the field and subject of interest, strengthening primary health care as a basis for providing health services, and then here some remarks that are well-intentioned, but I must stress that they are not standing, simply not correct, being thrown, destroying, destroying the health system and discriminating someone, so for God, who can go into the destruction of the health system and discrimination, and in particular going into strengthening primary health care because it is trying to free up space in hospitals and secondary health care, means polyclinic clinics, diagnostics, etc. and emphasizes the need for precisely this kind of examination, and specialist examinations and diagnostic examinations right in the homes of health. Well, we did, we reported the project towards the EU, and finally, in this direction we strengthened the county health homes, we left it to the counties, the founders to decide for themselves what their needs were, but big funds were just allocated from EU funds to ensure that in the county health homes diagnostic apparatus, from LVV to X-rays, etc., etc. We are aware of the fact that we are missing at this time of the doctor, but we are working on it and we are trying to set the attractiveness of work in family medicine, so again, with our project towards the EU, we have provided 217 million kunas for specializations in family medicine, so we have provided 212 specialization of family medicine, that is a nice indicator in which we are considering, and prevention is not only a systemic problem, it is a problem and our citizens are not responding to some preventive measures and we are just doing, the basis of our National Health Strategy is prevention in chronic diseases and malignancies, these are witnesses, I am not going to talk further about, a variety of this prevention measure... carcinoma, breast cancer, prostate cancer, etc. etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone mentioned working hours, mentioned administrative problems in medicine that doctors cannot deal with this medicine but must deal with administration. I'm aware of these, these grudges, I'm aware because until recently I've been working in the health system and I'm still thinking that way. Indeed, many doctors complain about the excessive administration, but I would also say that these colleagues were not in Western countries to which we constantly refer to the standard in Sweden, to the standard I do not know in Germany and in some other developed countries where there are many more administrations. So simply in the transition that we've talked about, some of our colleagues don't realize that, yes, commitment and medical work includes both something else and that administration that's just focused on quality control, on an analysis of their activities, etc. etc. If we are talking about working time then the working time this would have to point out that the problem might be respecting working time is exactly what one is, is one of the measures we are now thinking about and we are going to propose in our planned health reforms, but I will leave the development of health reform to someone else when the time comes. And I would also like to correct one, one fact that it wasn't spent, as much as you said 600 million kuna for covid, it wasn't spent, we spent 2.5 billion kunas from the health system, and that's just on the meaning of tests, on testing, on the cost of protective equipment and on the cost of the sick, and we paid for it, so we didn't go as some went into the protection analysis if someone got sick, whether they needed to pay for the sick, we paid everyone sick, and that's 2.5 billion kuna that doesn't get in, don't get the cost of these respirators coming in now if I'm not cheating on what we bought just to equip our hospitals, and to provide adequate, adequate care for all our employees. A colleague Bulj said who's guilty, who's guilty of, for the possibility of pointing out concessions, so I'd say this, thank you for that question, it's a really good question, I'd say that guilt is divided, but I'd return who's to blame if, who's the guilty cab driver for not filing this request for an extension of the driver's license. Of course there could be a taxi service or someone else who's worried that if the residents were to be transported from point A to point B, I'd compare it a little bit, but I'd say the guilt was divided. However, we do not aim to punish the culprit, they all know very clearly who, who, who is to blame, but our goal is to improve this system so that something like this never happens again just so that, in order to strengthen the health care of our citizens and to improve the health system of which I have said, of course, that there are problems and that we have focused on these problems. I'd most like to talk... I wish we had a standard like, like, Germany and we had salaries like in Germany, but unfortunately we don't. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to say constantly, and even during this debate was called to the Swedish health system and some other health systems in developed countries, but I would like to say that if we are calling for a Swedish or Scandinavian health system or health system in Germany and France then let's not just take out those points that are better than ours, let's look at the whole, let's look at their entire system. Here I'm going to give you an example that I had a patient who wanted to get off the respirator right in that famous Sweden because it just didn't predict that he was on the respirator any longer, but he was 7 days old, he couldn't do the 8th day, so they wanted to take him off the respirator. The same patient was transferred to KB Dubrav, so thank God he was on the respirator for a while, and then he walked out on foot. Here's your Swedish health system. Just as you explain this famous Swedish health system where patients with epilepsy come from Sweden to me in Zagreb, how is it when their health system is so good? How do you explain that a neurologist is waiting in Sweden for three years, and in fact, he can go to the hospital whenever he wants to? So we have bad, bad real... We've got bad things, we're trying to make things right, I hope we can make them right, and surely, there's something we want to make right. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would like to emphasise once again, I think that, if it were never enough, little or enough to emphasize that we really have a primary health system as the basis of the health system that we are trying to strengthen primary health care, that we are trying to restore the trust of citizens in family medicine doctors who have very high quality doctors of family medicine and concessionaries and home doctors to try, but not the system, sorry that the colleague is not here, is not guilty that they are citizens or exclusively... Citizens have lost confidence in them, so let's ask ourselves whose fault it is, and I guarantee you that some doctors of family medicine do much more, do much more prevention and diagnostics and significantly less refer their patients to hospitals in such a way unnecessarily burdening the hospital system unlike some others. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in this direction we also work on education, so in the end we have provided specializations just so as many citizens don't process where they should be processed, which is in primary health care. There are many more topics to be touched, but this one would no longer discuss it because I am sure that during this proposal for a health reform that I am looking forward to and I hope that we will significantly improve our health care system and further improve the quality of health care provided to our citizens, and I would be responsible for this position on behalf of all health professionals to claim that the quality of health care provided to our citizens is very good, especially if, if we count the allocations for a health system that is unfortunately significantly, significantly lower than in the EU, the EU average is EUR 3,000, in Croatia unfortunately, EUR 860, 860, in Slovenia, let's say EUR 1,800, so I don't see that the health system in Slovenia is much better than, or even better than in Croatia, and let alone, if we compare the rights our patients have, means the right to achieve a whole series of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and medicines etc. Here's my thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34988	Thank you very much, you have replicas that I don't see how much of that either. - Mrs. Crescent. Andreja Maric is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34989	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad you're in the ministry aware of all the problems in the health system and that here you are ready to deal with it. With regard to primary health care 25.8. In 2020, there was a meeting with primary healthcare representatives and it was characterised as one, so the first in a series of dialogues to solve the problem in primary health care, and then Minister Beros himself detected the problems of why there is too little specialisation, so local self-government doesn't have the means to finance them, there is practically too little interest, and I'm glad that you have now provided information on 212, if I remember correctly, specialization that the state has also participated. However, I remind you that the specialization plan is up to 2025. 504, and at the time of the 8th month, there was 175, so there's still plenty of room to call the specials. I wonder when you'll have the next meetings with primary health care where you'll solve a number of problems not just specializations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34990	Here you go, Mr. Bashic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34991	Thank you for your question and for your comments. He would remind us that these specialisations are only one part of the planned specialisations for which the funds are provided, a large part of the EU funds. We're going to have to take care of this on our own. We will bear them, of course, that it is only one of measures and moves to improve the quality of health care provision, in fact primary health care, and not only because these colleagues are doing very well and very well and quality, but in order to make this position more attractive, so that people are satisfied with the position of medical family medicine, not only because they are looking for specialisation in the hospital system where we really want to have as many doctors as possible and we are also aware that there are certain areas in the Republic that are in some way unattractive to doctors, so there are no doctors and there are no doctors, but now we are trying to provide with, with a team of non-pregnants, or in all possible ways we provide adequate health care or necessary care and those areas which are unfortunately less populated whether these are islands, whether this is not known to be Slavonia or some other rural parts of our rural country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34992	Thank you, ma'am. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34993	Thank you. Here's to correct you, I didn't say that someone was discriminated against, I said that the unequal quality of health services, the availability of health services in different parts of the country, I think it's so clear that it doesn't need to be specifically explained. But given what you just said, here I have two simple questions. Do you consider that the system of concessions in primary health care strengthened the quality and availability of services in primary health care, so is it better? And are generally all the reforms we've been carrying out in the last 30 years. You've improved primary health care either she's the same or she's worse than she was, here's very simple, which is your evaluation of the last 30 years. in the quality of primary health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34994	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34995	Thank you for that question. This is what I forgot to say in, in, in my, in my exhibit. You'd just go back to your first sentence where you're correcting me, the word "discrimination" is very well spoken or you said it in what context, this one you thought I didn't know, but I know what I heard and I repeat nobody discriminated, let alone from the position of the government or our ministry. I would also like to stress that, I am sure that all healthcare professionals and most ordinary citizens will admit that the continued improvement in the quality of health care at all levels in the Republic, so I really don't see this one on which someone says that, to collapse the health system, the quality of health care has been in the last 10 years. significantly disrupted, I, I really don't see it and I don't know what it's said on. And to ask whether the concession improved or did not improve, so I would answer you to the question that I know very much or very much it's relatively, but I know a lot of concessionaires who are this were motivated by taking a concession that had just been motivated [[Intruder: Time]] And they improved, and they increased the quality of this one. [[Intruder: Thank you]] health services, they increased [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I think it's, I think it's better that we have to coordinate this one a little bit better. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34996	Thank you. You can reach out because you still have a lot of replicas, so go ahead. - Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34997	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, what they are more or less all agreeing on today is that we are concerned that as many as 40% of the concessionaries or about 2,000 entities have not yet submitted their requests for reshaping. In this context, it is said that they did not submit the requests because they could not obtain the necessary documentation. That paperwork is being obtained at the county level, right? And now I'm interested in what is the most common obstacle to obtaining this documentation, or at that county level, who is at all responsible for why this documentation cannot be obtained, so are there any deadlines or any obligation by the publisher of that documentation that, that, to the healthcare entities and to allow the obtaining of this documentation that might then be forwarded through a request by the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34998	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u34999	A much bigger problem than what is, which is the level of the Ministry of Health, but I would just like to point out that some have not submitted the request because yet they do not have, have not yet gained concessions, so for God's sake all concessions won at the same, this at the same time and in the same date, it is... The process, some gain in January or in February, in March, in June, June, and finally there is still time to submit these concessions, and we have to leave something to the local authorities, and we have to leave something to the county to make a move, and there was a discussion right on the subject and to do their job, the ministry can't do all its work, so we really expect all the participants and concessionists to submit concessions in time, also from local self-government to come out of these documents, of course if all the conditions are met. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35000	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35001	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would only mean from this debate it is visible that primary health care is something that is most important, such as emergency medicine also within an hour if you do not always react there is a danger that... It's always that one. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have an example of what was in Metkovic, an example where the death of a child I don't like to speak negatively about and health care is negative, but the fact that we lose services and lose doctors in undeveloped areas is illogical for me, here I am giving you the consideration, there were also protests of the thematic session in the county. How is it possible to fuze in the largest county where the second city of Split-Dalmatia County is in one home of health because from this centralization responsibility to the team that is leading this and essentially since it has been centralized we have worse and worse services, less and less specialists are increasingly less and less available services to our citizens. And that's what I'm talking about, I'm talking about a problem that is essential, to fuze the home of health. In the biggest county, it's a disaster. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35002	Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35003	Thank you, thank you very much for that question. I truly understand your concern and sensitivity especially of people in, in, in, demographically less developed areas who rightly require health care immediately and now. That's, that's unspeakable. But we also need to know that we have a paradox that we have at the number of hospitals or at the distance, the availability of hospitals at an average distance of 30 km, in the EU 70 km. So we have a paradox that we have too many hospitals, and if we had less availability in some areas, I wouldn't say bad, no worse only better, but reduced availability or maybe the availability that is at that point in those people isn't satisfactory, but we can't make a home for health or hospital or emergency care in every place. But I perceive your concern and we will try to make the availability timely and accessible to all our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35004	Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35005	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that you liked to hear suggestions and remarks that could improve our health system, so here I am coming from Sibenik-Knin County where tourism is the main economic activity, I see great opportunities right in health tourism, in the Law on Health Protection as well as in the Law on Tourism predicts the development of health tourism because we really have great doctors now and super equipment especially recently obtained from EU funds, of course nothing should go to the expense of the domicile population. However, we have some formal obstacles, e.g. The General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County has a space that can be commercialized for parking, has a room where certain catering services can be provided, it is not possible to register in a commercial society, in a commercial court because of the Law on Institutions, and that is, the Law alone allows us to rent it to a private person instead of hire another employee. and give us an extra favor. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35006	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35007	That someone thinks that I like to hear another opinion, of course I do, but I'm just a little wheel on our Health Ministry team, we like to hear someone else's opinion and analyze it and perceive it. And as for health tourism, we can't wait for, yes, to develop health tourism and do this, we're taking steps to make it easier to stimulate it to go into health tourism in all segments. And the question is, in the hospital facilities, the place of the restaurant and if we're talking about catering facilities, it's not the end. I've heard some thinking that they will, that they want to make a malt restaurant not like commercial restaurants out there, so that's the question of what health institutions are intended for, are for, for cafes, whether, in this way, they should improve their financial resources or perhaps with the expansion of health institutions, by providing systematic checks, in some way just direct an increase in financial revenues in those activities for which hospitals are intended, which is for providing, providing this health service. I personally prefer them very much that hospitals increase the quality of health, wider health services, and not open cafes and bakeries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35008	Thank you, time. Mr. Totgergeli, I didn't recognize you with a mask I must tell you. We'll have to get some, let it stop time, we'll have to get these transparent masks for those who go to the election now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35009	That's an interesting point. Thank you, Vice President HS. I think that first all of us here in the assembly should be commended and thanked to all health care professionals because what our health care system has been going through in the last year might be comparable only to wartimes. But I answered the line on the subject when you spoke about the lack of a doctor in rural areas. I think the ministry's problem just cannot be solved, it is a problem that both the ministry and regional and local self-government must solve together. Where both regional and local self-government are involved, where they encourage their citizens to go to study medicine, where they also give serious scholarships, where they get involved in resolving housing issues, where they practically ensure that when they come to work there and organize their lives in that area, then these people also stay working as doctors in these local environments and these local environments have a lot less problems. of those where it's not like that. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35010	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35011	Thank you. Thank you for your reflection. I agree with that because we do have some bright examples in local self-government that are making further efforts and financial and various other efforts to make that position attractive. We must be aware that there are some legal frameworks and legal norms and regulations that say how many residents are needed for a doctor. Where we say there's a shortage, it's a deficit, but not by the number of inhabitants, but by the location level, and that, and we're going through it in a way that, if we have mobile teams, one doctor does not know in one day in one place, another day in another place, and that way includes a sufficient number of his insurance companies. The fact that they're stationed in settlements with a smaller population is another thing and we'd like them all to have the same care, that's this same other thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35012	Thank you. Mr. Kresimir Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35013	Dear Secretary of State, you have announced a new Health Protection Act, for when it is envisaged to pass this law, and in which direction should this new law go, I am primarily speaking from the perspective of my fellow citizens of the town of Velika Gorica, who belongs to Zagreb County where citizens in one big city expect an ever-increasing leprosy and higher standard of health services that could precisely come to our area by amending the new law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35015	The law, we are planning a law at the end, end or debate on the law at the end of this year in, in, in the third and fourth quarter, but this one I would like to stress that the law will go into debate when it is ready just so that it will not, in order to avoid possible shortcomings in the law or that something of this might not be done as well as could be done, so that we do not again come before this assembly with certain regulations, etc. etc. What I'd like to point out, I'm sorry that my colleague's lawyer left, she's not here, I forgot to answer her question about when the minister will discuss with the family medicine again? Well, family medicine isn't our rival, they're part of us, they're our partners, and they're not just associations of this KHOM representatives of family medicine, there's a chamber, there's a whole series of other associations, so we co-operate with them all the time and we communicate with this and, and we make decisions together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35016	A brand-new organic law, drastic changes to all the laws of these Mr. Bašić? Mr. Bashic, brand-new law yes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35017	No, not a whole new law, but a change, maybe I got it wrong, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35018	Changes, changes, changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35019	Yeah, yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35020	Oh, right, right, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35021	The changes we're going to try to cover all the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35022	All right, all right. And finally, Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35023	My dear secretary, here's another suggestion if you can. In April 1991. A Ministry of Health and APIS initiative, today's APIS, has been launched to create a single hospital system at the level of Croatia. Today, much later, it's been 30 years. Almost, every hospital has its own system, these systems are not connected, and you agree with me that it is extremely important to collect data between these hospitals since the patient can now end up in another hospital, if they do not find it is a big problem. This connection between primary medicine and hospital is okay. However, it is extremely important that hospitals are also connected and that there is some kind of repository of these findings, what happens to the patient, the history of it, and everything that happens to the patient and in primary care and later in the hospital. I don't know if you're aware, right now in hospitals are information systems, and business owners are actually Canadians, so it's not our company that maintains information systems in hospitals anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35024	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35025	Thank you for the suggestion of this which is truly this valuable and quality, but I will have to correct you, there is not every hospital this separate system but most hospitals have one system, now how high it is or not it is the subject of perhaps some other debate. Owners, however, I must point out to you that hospital owners or founders are not the state of Croatia of all hospitals, so there are a whole series of county hospitals that we cannot influence which one of those systems will choose, and that is, we have left this to local self-government or founders to decide and the hospital separately obtains a healthcare system. Of course, if it doesn't even matter what the system is, it's important that these systems are compatible and that they can be networked and that's what they're doing. But what you're saying is we're doing in that direction, and it's really our goal to get all these hospitals connected to each other as soon as possible. Now there's again, of course, to protect yourself, to protect the right to the privacy of patients, there's a whole series of reasons it's not just a simple connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35026	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, which is likely to be at 12 o'clock when we meet again, and now the break by 12 o'clock. ANNIGHT IN 11.25 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-19-0.u35027	Report on a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The bearer is the government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs voted, 105 for, 15 abstentions and 8 against, so it was concluded that it was proposed by the home body. Report on the financial audit carried out by political parties and independent representatives for 2019 The applicant is the State Audit Office, according to this agenda item, we will vote in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2019 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, 119 for, 4 abstentions, 4 against and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home working body.
