ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26948	We now move to the agenda of today's debate: - Proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted the amendment in accordance with Article. 199. Rules of Procedure. On the amendment submitted this way, we agreed at a session on January 19, 2021. First, the proposer's representative will explain the amendment submitted and then the representatives' clubs can speak afterwards. The promoter can speak for 20 minutes, you have the right to replicas and ten minutes of club exposure, of course, as always, no replicas. So I am opening a debate on the amendment and calling on the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of the Honorable Gordan Grlic Radman. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26949	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, good morning. On 14 December last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the Croatian Parliament a report on consultations in connection with the intention of declaring an exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea as well as a proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The debate on the abovementioned acts was concluded on 17 December 2020 and during the debate, the Government fully adopted amendments to the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee concerning the new technical harmonisation of the decision. The Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion on 18 December, which adopted the report in question and supported the proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. In conclusion, the government is also in charge of supporting the strengthening of cooperation in light of the declaration exclusively of the economic belts of Croatia, Italy in 2021, at a trilateral meeting in January 2021 between the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia. And after that, a decision would be formally taken to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. Having regard to the proposal for a decision, it is necessary to establish the date of entry into force of the decision and, in that sense, the date of the declaration of the exclusive economic band, the Government made an amendment to the Croatian Parliament on 14 January at point 8 of the proposal setting out the date of entry into force of the decision and on 1 February 2021. Although it is not the subject of today's debate, it is important to note, however, that the first trilateral meeting is at the ministerial level, so Croatia, Italy, Slovenia already held in Trieste on 19 December 2020 immediately after the discussion of the proposal for a decision to declare an exclusive economic belt after the debate in the Croatian Parliament. The above meeting exchanged information on the progress of the initiative to declare exclusive economic zones and it was reiterated that all will be implemented in accordance with the principles of international law, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and in accordance with EU law. In addition, a joint statement was adopted at a meeting in Trieste, a joint confirmed vision of the Adriatic Sea as a bridge that unites all the peoples of this area and a source of wealth and prosperity for all. Furthermore, an agreement has been reached that the next trilateral ingredient will be organised in the first quarter of 2021. It also agreed to continue joint cooperation in key areas, including the topics of improving economic development, strengthening the integration of the blue economy and the comprehensive protection of the Adriatic Sea. To this end, mechanisms will be established to improve cooperation at both political and expert operational levels. The first meeting of the trilateral at the operational expert level will take place on 29 January 2021 through a video conference. The meeting will provide a basis and will be a sort of preparation for working on individual proposals and programmes at a professional level to prepare a ministerial meeting scheduled in March this year. It is worth mentioning today that on 30 November last year, within the 4th meeting of the Co-ordination Committee of Ministers of Croatia and Italy, the coherence of the action of the two countries with the aim of declaring exclusive economic belts, but also the willingness to approach the border talks at sea is mutually confirmed. On the subject of the demarcation yesterday, January 20th in Rome, the first meeting was held at a professional level and will continue in the coming months, my colleague, State Secretary, Andreja Metelko-Zgombic, was just yesterday in, returned from Rome. Dear Mr. President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I call on you to support the amendment which sets out the date of entry into force of the proposal for a Decision declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea on 1 February 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26950	Stay here, dear Minister, because we have several replicas. We have seven more precisely. He's a colleague of the Bulls first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26951	Thank you very much. Minister, I am pleased that this process is being accelerated, but we are, and I am also glad that you have accepted the proposal, which, in parallel, in the past terms that we have given to declare the exclusive economic belt that you have consistently rejected and where certain damages have been done to the Republic of Croatia. My question is, does the declaration of the exclusive economic belt make Croatia take every effort to apply it in reality? What about the Croatian Coast Guard and others who will control the exclusive economic belt? 24 thousand square kilometers we will have to protect and how will Croatia do so? Whether to use European funds, Croatian funds, and we are witnessing that we currently do not have enough Croatian Coast Guards? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26952	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26953	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have indeed had a comprehensive and broad discussion about this. Thank you, too, for your constructive contribution. Of course, we, by international law and by all international acts, have the right to declare an exclusive economic belt on which we have also received the EU Commission's approval. Of course, in line with the dialogue, the interests of good neighbourly relations, each country has, of course, the right to declare, but clearly and in agreement. Until the conclusion of international demarcation contracts, what is important is that the external border of the exclusive economic band is temporarily followed by the line of demarcation of the epicontinental belt by the indirect agreement between the former state and the Italian Republic of '68. Mr. As a consequence of this declaration of the exclusive economic belt, it follows also the Agreement on the Restriction of the Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26954	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26955	Your Honor, I must be extremely clear here. As far as I can tell, nothing has changed, and this declaration is actually eye-snatching to the Croatian public. You tell me, or the Croatian public, whether or not they will be plowing Italian carriages in the Croatian part of the IGP on February 2nd. The reason why Croats who are thinking sovereignly wanted to declare IGP was not to protect the Italian interest on the Mediterranean Sea from Tunisian but was interested in Croatian fishermen to protect the Croatian part of the IGP from Italian carriages. It's a simple question. Is Italian holding oru still in the Croatian part of the IGP?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26956	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26957	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. That's what we're talking about, look out, it's not a public eye rub. Croatian diplomacy and this government follows the principle of political interests of the Republic of Croatia, I said that every country has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt, we are now doing so together to ensure that two states, two coastal states, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Croatia are now promoting full protection in the Adriatic Sea. We discussed this extensively also, in December of the month, and of course, Croatia's EU membership rate is the Croatian Adriatic Sea is also part of the EU's sea and it brakes just as well as Croatian fishermen can brake, meaning in an exclusive economic belt in one sea, so when it is declared on the Italian side, so is Italian, but we protect ourselves from third countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26958	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26959	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I request a 10-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the proposed amendment. Namely, you have now told the truth but you have said it a little camouflaged and I have here a need and colleagues who have settled, some have not, some have, to declare the IGP to explain Croatian carriages have the right to fish as they have so far had the right to fish in the Italian part of the IGP and we do not have those carriages and Italian carriages that have hundreds of carriages still have the right to crash, to dive the Croatian part of the IGP. In other words, Minister, I'll do it again, because that's the only right word. You have blurred, you continue to rub the eyes of the Croatian public because nothing crucial has changed. I'll repeat, our chariots, which we don't have before, were able to fish in the Italian part and theirs will still be able to fish in our part of the IGP. And I'm gonna do it again from earlier on for those of you who haven't figured it out. The reason why for decades all those Croats who are thinking sovereignly wanted to declare the IGP was to prevent Italians from fishing on our Croatian sea. And you didn't protect it. But I'm also going to say this thing and I'm going to tell you that later in the debate five times. You still have the opportunity to ask the European Commission for full protection of the IGP with which Croatia would then have a good benefit. Unfortunately, it is not in the interest above all of one subjugation policy by Andrej Plenkovic in the context of Brussels. I know you won't do it, but I'm glad you told the truth after all that the Croatian public hears and knows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26960	Stanka's been approved, but we're moving on now to work so we're going to the third amendment, colleague Vrkljan, here you go. Excuse me, replica. Third replica, not the third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26961	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I last discussed this subject, there's no need to open these discussions again, but last time you were in this home, you got two questions. One question was from Agent Caroline Kristo, and the other question was mine. You promised to answer the questions in writing, until today you didn't answer, and that's why I'm going to ask you the same question again. As resolute minister responsible for organising work and organising our embassies around the world. I asked you how many of our guys from special forces, military and police are involved in securing our embassies around the world?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26962	Comrade Vrkljan, I have to interrupt you, this is not a subject and I'm in the Rules of Procedure. I must take away your word [[Intruder Vrkljan: I know, but that you will forgive me, do not interrupt me but then give me a warning.]] You can't, no. I take away your word by the Rules of Procedure when you refuse to continue to speak the subject of the debate. [[Intruder Vrkljan: Mr. Chairman, you interrupt me and give me a warning]] You're talking about something that has nothing to do with the subject, and I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. .../Intruder Vrkljan: Well, I expect the minister's answer... in writing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please sit down, stick to the Rules of Procedure. Now it's my colleague Kuzmanic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26963	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we will, of course, support this declaration and I would like to use this solemn moment to pass on to you the congratulations of our fishermen who, with enthusiasm, have accepted your statement or heard your statement that the Croatian chariots will finally be able to fish on the coast of Spain so that our strong fishing fleet, which we now have, which you have been building for years, have invested in it and have fought to make our EU coins stronger, will gladly share with you the photos of the catches that will take place on the coasts of Spain and on the other shores on which, with this declaration of the Croatian fisherman, will finally be able to come out. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26964	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26965	Thank you very much, actually for these affirmative words that I've actually experienced and I'm having it affirmative, is that right? What we really want to contribute here to the interests of Croatian fishermen and to greater protection clearly, the Adriatic Sea. No one can hunt anymore if it is not agreed, therefore, the protection of the Adriatic Sea is now actually protected in its entirety if the two countries are responsibly approaching protection. You have an example of the apple cauldron which has already been elaborated so many times, we have also talked about the protection of a particular endangered species such as a leaf on the northern Adriatic, so Croatia will go from these positions to the protection of the fish fund and the ecological. So where we will see that the fish fund is actually compromised, Croatia will react there. Therefore, this is a great success of Croatian diplomacy, but I say, now the demarcation agreement follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26966	Thank you. Now it's MP Petyr's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26967	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, last year was extremely difficult on the internal agenda when we look at the COVID crisis, and we are hit by two big earthquakes that are all over central Croatia but when we look at the external political plan, we can boast with more success, and one of them is this joint initiative by Croatia and Italy to declare itself an IGP that will inevitably have a positive impact on the conservation of the fish fund and on the sustainable management of the Adriatic. We are already taking note of some joint initiative by Croatia and Italy, such as the protection of the Apple and sustainable fishing in the part, and I am curious, is it planning to continue with such initiatives when it comes to protecting the Adriatic and the fish funds and since you mentioned that the secretary of state was in Rome at a border meeting, can you tell us what the impressions of the first meeting are? Is there going to be a problem with demarcation or is it going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26968	Thank you very much. That is exactly what they have given so many important and important elements when it comes to the activities of Croatian diplomacy and Croatian foreign policy, it is certainly not in itself easy to declare IGP, it always has certain implications or reactions to others. We talked recently as well with the French Foreign Minister, they knew they also declared the IGP had certain even remarks when it came to Spain. So what you're doing, you can't do unilaterally, you have to work on a deal, you have to respect neighbors, you have to respect, but first of all you have to have to actually defend your own interests. You must have, when speaking to Mr. esteemed representative of Croatian fishermen, of course, that our first thought is actually Croatian fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26969	Now it's time for the esteemed chap Cappelly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26970	Your Honor, Minister. When we add up a little territory of 12 nautical miles of internal water of the Republic of Croatia and the IGP, it is practically a whole square if we can say so inland part of the Republic of Croatia and there is the importance of how important this part is and how important it is for the Republic of Croatia. In any case, there are always questions about trilaterals, so many times why, besides Italians, we always mention the agreement and the conversation and the Slovenian side, so would you please once again clarify why and in what direction we have always spoken in trilaterals, what is the importance of neighbours and good relations with neighbours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26971	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26972	Thank you very much. Mr. Honorable Representative Cappelli. Of course, it is absolutely important to respect all the neighbours with whom we share the Adriatic Sea. The Adriatic Sea is not only the property of a single state, so every country has certain rights, but in order to be able to achieve these rights first and foremost, we need to be based on international law and all conventions that determine and which are the basis of our agreement. But a lot of things and what may not be established in conventions and international law clearly is this everyday life and surely it is very important for us and Slovenia because here Croatia and Italy share, these are coastal states that share the most part of the Adriatic Sea and it is certainly very important that Slovenia participates, therefore this is our common interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26973	And the last replica of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26974	...President, Mr. Minister. My question was whether you were talking about one IGP because you're several times, so please look at it, talk about the exclusive belts, so into the genitals of the plural. I think at the outset, you said this was kind of nomotechnical anyway, so here's the thing, I'm just warning you that we're taking a little bit of care of grammar, or maybe it's really about three belts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26975	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26976	Thank you very much. And I like to talk to you about it when it's linguistics and grammar and spelling, I agree with you, it's important to clarify that. When we talk about IGP in unity then we think about Croatia, we are here today to present an amendment to the IGP declaration that would enter into force on 1 February. Of course, when we speak in plural, then we think of Italy, which also announced the IGP announcement, we'll see when. So, they're unlikely to have a more complex procedure, and we already know, we could have declared it probably in December of the month, but here we wanted to honor in fact the talks of the trilateral and the neighbors to remove any political or other obstacle. So when we talk about exclusive economic belts, I refer to the letter von der Leyen which said it was good to declare exclusive economic belts wherever possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26977	Thank you. No more replicas, respected ministers, so you can return to your post. We're going to have a debate now. I repeat once more in accordance with article. In 199th century 2, only representatives of the club representatives can participate in the debate, for 10 minutes longer. The first is the club of Croatian sovereigns and colleagues Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26978	Honored ministers with a co-worker, respected HS president and, of course, respected colleagues and colleagues of Croatia. What are Croatian sovereigns different from all other parties and all other clubs in HS? For many things, one of these things is this amendment, or law, that we will soon pass. We are the only ones in the right way who have exposed eye rubdowns by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, of course both the Minister of RES and his ministry, because I will repeat, by declaring the IGP nothing changes in this way, absolutely nothing. The main reason Croatian fishermen have wanted to declare the IGP for several decades was that Italian brakes no longer destroy the Croatian bottom, the Adriatic bottom in the Croatian part of the IGP. However, this continues to happen, and then Resolute Minister Radman comforted us and said that Croatian brakes could, as they have been able to fish in the Italian part of the IGP. Dear Minister, I don't know what part of this story you're not clear on. As you laughed together with the Prime Minister two days ago as I said it wasn't over yet with the European budget because it wasn't over and I called the European Parliamentarians said it wasn't over and you know it's not over yet. And when I said we got zero kuna from the European budget and then you laughed, and we got zero kuna, and we paid hundreds of millions of euros. And now you're laughing, and you know you're cheating on the Croatian public and that you're a little muscle in conversations with colleagues from Slovenia, especially from Italy, and that unfortunately this economic belt would never have declared that it was necessary for the Italians to protect themselves from Tunisian on the Mediterranean Sea. And then to tell us great, but Croatian fishermen will be able to hunt on the shores of Spain, France, the Netherlands wherever they want, because it's all the European sea. And great thing, very great because Croatia at all, for those who do not know, who do not live on the Adriatic coast, Croatian fishermen do not have such carriages, such swimmers that can fish at such distances. And the Honorable Minister, I even tried to save you a little bit last time and say it's not your fault, it's your fault, Mr. Radman, it's your fault. You have this legitimacy to the Government of Andrej Plenkovic by misleading the Croatian public and then there is no difference between you and him, there is no difference, absolutely no difference. I gave you last time an amendment and a proposal for a conclusion that can solve this story in a simple way, which is to fully protect the IGP. And there is this institute, so you, as Minister or Government of the Republic of Croatia, have the opportunity to ask the European Commission for full protection of the IGP. And where there is hrvatski benefit, a huge benefit for those who don't understand then in those 20s and a few thousand square kilometers no one can fish. Does that bother Croatian fishermen? I don't mind. Why? Because we don't fish there anyway. But then, on the edge of that belt, the Croats in our territorial waters will hunt many more fish because the Italians will not fish it out in the IGP. There is another very important thing, call your colleagues at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and ask them, by 2030, and this will pass quickly we must protect 30% of the Adriatic, of which 10% must be strictly protected so 5,000 km2, these 30% is about 15,000 km2 and we will have to do so. Now listen to me, dear colleagues and colleagues from both the left and the right and those who are undefined worldview, if we have such power, the Italians will force us to protect us strictly or any category of protection to build in our territorial and coastal waters because we will not be able to avoid this deadline until 2030. and then you will have the situation that the Sibenik, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Tribune fishermen will no longer be able to fish where they've always hunted because the European Commission will force us to protect it, and we will continue to allow Italian fishermen to fish in the Croatian sea because this IGP is nothing but the Croatian sea and no one understands it anymore. What I'm saying is if you don't understand, call the university professors who are dealing with this, for example. I mentioned the name of Mr. Allen Soldo, who is a doctor of fishing, and I said last time that people from your party who understand the metrics say, so this is a shame, this is a shame to do. And then finally I have to draw a logical conclusion, why don't you want to do what I've offered you and wrote? Because Croatia is really a hostage in the hands of Andrej Plenkovic, a big game is played with Charles Michel, with Angela Merkel on one hand Andrej Plenkovic can get one great syncur in the European Commission or the European Council where it does not matter, somewhere in the EU, but the stake on his part is that, our country, the state of Croatia. He is to get his synergy, and even you who currently have it, you have invested our country in Croatia. It's a bet and you know it. And then between the lines, that's my colleague, Petyr, in a polite way, she said it nicely, the same thing I'm saying, do you mean to protect it? My colleagues don't think, and you don't have the same legitimacy, you're giving legitimacy to both this minister and his ministry and the entire Croatian government who invested our country to join the European bureaucracy. I'll get it done and I'll figure it out. Unfortunately, although the IGP has been formally declared, even though some have even clapped here in HS, which has been declared, I dare say that it is one of the biggest frauds and deceptions, one of the poorest decisions of Croatian politics ever, the most embarrassing is not only that we put our head down again and become what we are, or what we were, the servants of some of the Brussels rulers, but we still lie and milk the poor Croatian things, the Croatian people that we have finally become sovereign state and that we have sovereign and sovereignist power, and we do not have. We have exactly the opposite, we have the worst globalist advocates of a global European policy where on the one hand our country's role is in Croatia just to get some good European syncura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26979	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26980	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, I think you should have given Mr. Zekanovic a warning, in a shameless manner, without arguments, falsely slandering the government practically for high treason. This is inadmissible from one of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament that full of ignorance, unargumentation in this way speaks of the Croatian government, the legal, democratically elected Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26981	So, counterpart Bačić, I don't agree with anything that my colleague Zekanovic said or said to me closely in any way, but we are in the Croatian Parliament where MPs have the right to express their opinions, as much as it is unacceptable to one piece and to the public and representatives, they are elected and can say that, I estimate that there have been no personal insults, there have been political views and these are the views that my colleague Zekanovic is making. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure, regardless of this difficult and in my opinion, an unacceptable dictionary. Here you are, colleague Zekanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26982	So, also art. 238. I didn't say a word you'd take back or regret. And what Mr. Bacic says that I don't know, unfortunately for him, I know a lot more than all the members of the HDZ. A lot more. A lot more and on the other hand, you or you have no idea about anything or consciously deceive the Croatian public and choose where you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26983	Comrade Zekanovic, a little modesty wouldn't hurt you. But you're right about that, too. Here you go, Comrade Bull, now it's your turn on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26984	Thank you very much. I hope these citizens of the Republic of Croatia, our countrymen listen and humility is obviously the greatest virtue of Croatian parliamentarians. I have personally since I entered this House and before, through a number of initiatives, along with the people who were predecessors to us, always advocated the IGP's declaration. I made the motion twice in the procedure in the last term, unfortunately most of them refused. And now those who advocate, who have entered with HDZ together with the list, are now the biggest opponents in fact of what, the greatest advocates of what we have proposed. I'm glad Mr. Bacic has changed his mind and what is no longer the pressure of Mira Bulj, Mosta, these suggestions for the IGP announcement. Indeed, it is a solemn act and indeed the Croatian policy of the head down has been courting either The Hague tribunal, the Hague court, Carly Del Ponte, when arrested, located, transferred to Croatian generals for years, we did not have the strength to declare the IGP. Announcing the IGP is a solemn act. However, the application of the IGP and the protection of 24 000 km2 of the extension of our rights, which we have under international law, called on us in 2013 during the SDP of the Government, the European Commission called on us to declare the IGP. Let's declare it. To lose between 150 million and 250 million euros annually. Which means we lost a billion to 2 billion kuna a year. For not declaring IGP. And indeed, we see those who were then obediently voting with their HDZ colleagues and others, now suddenly here in the stands are terrible, now in this pay phone, terribly humble. I'm sorry the sovereigns didn't support it at the time. Now I don't know the reasons why. Why? He's probably a colleague of Bacic's... all the certain synchronises at the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably. And I'm sorry they didn't vote back then. And proclaiming the IGP's solemn act that it is high treason, I do not agree with that, that it is a bad move, I disagree with that and the other is the problem of the respected Minister, will we apply our international right that this Croatian Parliament has declared? Are we going to ban defending and plowing Italian fleets and courtships like Plenkovic often adds to Tajani, a fascist who says that Istria and Dalmatia is Italian and is not, that's been happening since the Rapal Treaties, 100 years ago, in the 11th month. when the Kingdom of then led by the king of Serbia at that time gave parts of Dalmatia, our Adriatic, parts of Istria, to the Italians. We're being terrorized by the Rapalian Treaties. And why wouldn't it be the solemn act of declaring the IGP? But once again, who is responsible for the damages that the Croatian state has not declared IGP? It didn't start with Mira Bull. He was here and Tonci Tadic before the man who advocated it as HSP, at the time, why didn't he support himself? Because our policies were adhering to that sentence when Vladimir Seks was an ideologist and these governments, not only ideologist, he was a man who agreed to the system, primarily the judiciary, when he said to locate, arrest, transfer, process the most prominent Croatian defenders and generals who persecuted themselves as dogs until we protected our national interests. And we have certain respected ministers, the damage of that. Certain damages. The Italians did what they wanted to do to our Adriatic. And now that it's Italian... The fishing chamber went sharply towards the Italian Parliament and when they announced the IGP announcement in the Italian Parliament was a huge applause, and in the Croatian Parliament until this declaration were the thrusts of Mira Bulja, the Bačić River would know nothing, ZERP and IGP is the same, and it is not just a matter of energy benefits and exploitation and some artificial islands, it is a lie and deception, but it is a great benefit if we use it and if we fight to protect this IGP, but not only on paper. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I once again claim that it is a solemn act of declaring the IGP, I am glad that this process is speeding up, it seems to me on February 1st that there will be an IGP application, but we have a bigger problem with the coast guard and the control of our Adriatic. At this point, we move from one phase of the decision we made, which belongs to the Croatian people and which we Parliamentarians with pride can say that we are a generation of MPs who have made the IGP declaration, because others obviously did not have the courage or were under blackmail. However, political circumstances have now agreed, and we have brought together, and now we have to be effective in applying the protection of the IGP. As far as the Croatian Coast Guard is concerned, we did not have enough resources and potential. We also have control of modern technologies today. We can also use aviation, our forces. However, as far as I'm concerned, I know that six ships have been arranged with the Shkver in Split, that only one has been made so far, it seems to me that Omis is called or something similar, a coast guard that would control our right, of course, because this is an expansion of 24,000 km2. And a very important matter of environmental conservation of the IGP. We on the Adriatic today have oil stains the size of Split, a few of them, because of the washing of tankers, oil, balasic waters, and no one controls it. We're just lucky that the currents in the Adriatic are the way they are that all the oil, the oil, the smoldering ointments don't come to our shores because of the current. So we have a natural happiness because that's how the currents are. We have to stop washing, washing tankers, oil at our centre of the Adriatic, and that's one of the very important things that can happen is that at some point I don't know why these currents don't come to our Adriatic, and tourism is still one of our biggest contributions to GDP, it seems to me 18% that it was, now I don't know how much. Also, protecting national interests is very important not only for the IGP. We've lost telecommunications, we've lost banks, CNB, and everything but the CNB, we've lost agricultural production, we've got 700,000 acres of unprocessed agricultural land, not modeled, we've got a huge job ahead of us. We now have before us a law that will come, where it will be banned on the market of indigenous domestic seed, instead of our advantage, our OPGs, this government obediently and the Ministry of Agriculture pushing to ban our indigenous seed. This is all about our tourism, our IGP, our aquaculture on the Adriatic, our fisheries on the Adriatic, our agriculture. If we don't protect it and if we just follow European directives and worship European directives to get certain individuals of a particular syncure, then it will be the same case as the IGP because the largest co-increasion around the IGP was presented by Mr Bačić and Andrej Plenkovic when they said they were declaring the IGP, and two days before that they said that they were nonsense and pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26985	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please just wipe out the pay phone. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26986	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. As we discussed during December the announcement of the IGP, today's amendment to the government will come into force, and after the meeting has reached its decision on adoption and this amendment, it will enter into force on 1 February 2021. We have already spoken in this assembly many times about IGP being declared under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and on the basis of our Maritime Code. And as I was speaking on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club a month ago, I'm going to repeat now that it's been over the past 30 years. Croatian sovereignty was an opportunity to declare the IGP and could, since it was already in the 1990s, I believe that the Maritime Code was passed in 1994, it could then be declared by the then rule of law with Dr. Franjo Tudjman, we didn't declare him. At that time, as a young country in the war, we needed international positioning and the interests of the Adriatic coastal states were such that the country's leadership then assessed that it was not going to declare the IGP and I will remind you that President Cossiga, the Italian President was the first international statesman to come to Zagreb in the declaration of Croatia and the internationally recognised state. Later, after the 2000s, ZERP was declared. I think that the then SDP power could, when it had already decided on the declaration of ZERP as a protected eco-fishing belt, in the same way could have made a decision on the IGP, everything would have been the same, nothing would have changed there, it would have been anyway, but even when it was declared in September 2003, it did not immediately come into force but in the evening of parliamentary elections, then the power extended it for a year and it was due to enter into force on 1.10.2004. In the meantime, as a candidate for entry into full EU membership, we should have already respected certain rules that, in the spirit of good neighbourly relations, in the European spirit, we are extending our sovereign rights at sea, the Adriatic Sea which, otherwise, belongs to us under the Convention and the Maritime Code. And then we're in this process of joining the EU, this ZERP that has almost 99% of all IGP content, then we said it would not apply... I will make it very clear that again on 15 March, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement came to Zagreb and made it clear that if Croatia continues with the bilateral declaration of the IGP, negotiations for the continuation of EU membership negotiations will be closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also clear to all those who were then following these events and who were political actors, it is absolutely clear to everyone. And then there was here in this Parliament and in Croatia the Council for Europe, which was made by the strongest political parties in Croatia and then consciously suspended the ZERP or the IGP, almost anyway, for the EU Member States knowing that the moment that we become a full member of the EU and then we thought and that we should say that before 1 July 2013, we hoped that there would not be a blockade of Slovenia, we ended negotiations and, knowingly, when we finished these negotiations, when we became a member, that this ZERP or IGP would become a common sea of the EU. Therefore, it is one genealogy of our thinking and decision making in the Croatian Assembly around the IGP. In the past 7 years since we have been a member of the EU, the Croatian ZERP and since 1 February the Croatian IGP has been the EU's common sea and the EU's common fisheries policy is being implemented. And in the past 6.5 years, how many EU members we have been, 7 years since we are a member of the EU, we have already shown that our government and administration, the Croatian state administration, is concerned about the conservation of the fishing fund in the Adriatic Sea. The apple cauldron as the highest habitat in the Adriatic Sea has been protected for the past seven years by our membership, 4.5 years, at first 15 months. So now for 3 years and the special extraction regime in the apple cauldron will be by the end of 2021. Therefore, what is important to us, what is important to our fishermen, we have succeeded as a state that covers in the most part its sovereign law and sovereignty, covering the Apple, we have succeeded at the level of the European Commission, the EU, to raise it to the level of space to be protected. That's why what Mr. Zekanovic is saying, which is so missed, is so much unknown to the IGP's problem, that it makes me uncomfortable that such words are resorting to a government that is very, very much acting in the protection of national interest as well as in this transition between ZERP to IGP. To claim that this is what the Italians provide, and at the same time, in the same sentence to say that nothing changes for the Italians, it's so contradictory that there's no need to talk about it. There's no need to talk about it. As for fishing, fishing in the Adriatic Sea, nothing will change since 1 February, the IGP remains and the current ZERP will be the EU's common waters, a common fisheries policy will be implemented but Croatia, as it has already been for the apple cauldron and for other areas that we consider to need special protection from fishing, will be... Any kind of fish in the Adriatic, we'll protect them, we'll propose them, and with the argument we know, we'll know how to present it and protect the Adriatic as we've protected it so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what Mr Kuzmanic said was that this is a solemn act and that the minister said that after this declaration, Croatians will now be able to fish in the IGPs, I don't know, mention Spain or I don't know which country, it's again a highlight of ignorance, ignorance, some attempt in an ironic way to mock this decision, Croatians and Croatian fishermen were free to fish in accordance with European fisheries policy in any of the IGPs declared in any EU Member States. Therefore, for our fishermen everything about their fishing opportunities in other people's IGPs won't change anything, so it's better to keep your mouth shut than to talk, and then to show clearly how much it is, how much ignorance they have. First of all, I say when it comes to Mr. Zekanovic who here recited something that someone else prepared for him and then clearly escaped as usual when, when he performs in the way he performs in HS. So, we will welcome this, we hold that it is good that Croatia has now declared IGP for the reason that in addition to the components of the protected ecological fishing band, which contains almost 99% of all IGP contents of February 1st, we will have these remaining components, which is the possibility of using wind and sea energy on the one hand and on the other hand the exploitation of or building artificial islands. And that is what will happen after 1 February, but it is good and that is also through these elements of the IGP Croatia extends its sovereign rights on the Adriatic Sea and it is a good thing of the IGP. No one is thrilled about it, no one will jump into the air for it, but this way we will make another step to make full use of everything the international Convention on the Law of the Sea allows as a coastal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26987	Thank you. We are going to the 4th debate of the House Movement Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague Bartulica. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26988	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, the State Secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Nothing special has changed since the time of our decision before Christmas when we supported this declaration, but I think it's a good reason to recall some important moments in that debate. So I would take the opportunity to once again highlight Mr Tadic's role, Tonci Tadic, who has tirelessly advocated this declaration and a different approach to the issue of protection of national interests. In the debate then I mentioned some decisions from the recent Croatian past which I actually consider to be good examples when the state boldly protects its strategic interests regardless of whether our neighbours or our partners in Europe agree with it or not, and I cited the 1995 Storm as a very good example. However, as a former diplomat, I also pointed out one phenomenon, I said that, I explained this by the term “mentality of courtship” that I noticed, so it's all kind of trying to present itself to the government, governments from before protect key interests always in agreement with others, and in fact what I noticed is lacking this boldness and perhaps the willingness to go sometimes and counter those who may at that point disagree. We need to be reasonable, we need to consult others, it's always good to reach an agreement, but when it comes to the wealth of the Croatian Adriatic, as we and the fishermen have pointed out throughout this time they haven't had the hearing and support of all governments, it's worth since 2000 until today. And I have to say that in that debate in the absence of counter arguments from colleagues here in this house they went to attack me personally, they entered into some details of my biography, which I believe has nothing to do with the subject, but it actually reflects the weakness and lack of political arguments. This was to the extent that some HDZ colleagues told me, they were embarrassed to listen to what direction the debate was going, unfortunately. So we try to be constructive, not personally attack, we have different views on how to protect Croatian interests, we will not always agree, however, we are trying to stay on a dignified level. So everyone has the right to express one's view, think, I don't think I'm lonely in that, there are many examples where I think our diplomacy could have been more firm and in some ways more bold in terms of protecting key interests and I'm going to keep saying it over and over again, I'm going to insist on it no matter what some think. It's not demagogy. We have a reason to talk like that. The country's movement therefore continues to consider the IGP's declaration to be a good decision, but it is too late and I think we should learn lessons from this experience. So we are now an EU member, but it always remains that we must have our own position, develop and develop a state's consciousness, a culture that we can manage our own country well. Unfortunately, history has denied us this possibility, and we have to make up for a lot of time, and it is not always easy, it is often simpler to follow what the big ones say or those guidelines say, but sometimes it is important to highlight this willingness to make our own decisions regardless of what some are opposed or otherwise thinking. Here's something shorter to talk about today, but I think it's important to repeat because this debate before often looked a little like politics, I think it's unnecessary to go low under the belt, I'm trying not to personally attack anyone but to stick to arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26989	We are now going to the fifth debate, Green-Left Block Representatives Club and Honored colleague William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26990	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This occasion of the amendment for the introduction of the IGP declaration on behalf of the Green-Left bloc I'll use to talk about something I'd say in a very different sense or other than this debate that we've been having until now, this morning, but in relation to that debate we had this year. We in the green-left block see that it can be viewed significantly differently about the introduction of IGP, that it does not fall into the ideological trap of thinking the term exclusively, which is immediately a trap for all possible exclusivity and ideas, I don't know which ideas to the sovereigns. There is something more exciting about this possibility of talks and agreements with Italy, Slovenia, but why not with BiH as much as they have that entry around Neum, with Montenegro and of course with Albania which is certainly a cause and there are people right that an increased fleet of their carriages is certainly one of the important reasons in this part why the Italians suddenly felt the need to declare the IGP, which is of course only the mechanical consequence of the genius of our foreign policy. But what's exciting about this is that this terrible covid crisis in Europe, we've heard about it, the famous friend of Prime Minister Michael talking about it in parliament, that it's exactly the green plan and the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, that it's actually the only way to transform society and economy if we want to get out of the crisis that we need to follow, and we're not talking about this covid-19 showing us that we can have covidi-22, 25 and who knows what will continue to call all these possible coronary viruses that exist, who know the numbers and know what they look like, is just a matter of the moment when our relationship to the environment, to the animal world will break out and bring us new disasters. And then why don't we in that sense watch a whole other story about the Adriatic, not just a story, not a story that dreams of building our own, I don't know what kind of guard ships they're going to be chasing, chasing the Italians and their carriages, and we're going to be there with them, so we've seen what a miserable, poor war of fishermen around the Savadria waves looks like. A disaster, a shame, and now it's suddenly that, well, nice to have one of their relatives just such an exclusive nationalist policy that he's our friend and that he represents us when we can't. Okay, that same thing means, we're no longer... enemies okay. But what we see from the green-left block, we see that we need to declare not only the IGP that will be declared, of course, but that we should put a social political goal on the Adriatic, and we can call it simply a healthy Adriatic, that we are all fighting together for the health of the Adriatic. Well, that's something that's mobilizing, so you suggest it, right now, and we'll be happy. Tell the Italians, we fight for the health of the Adriatic, let's say that to the Slovenians. Why wouldn't he? So Slovenians know every Croatian wave, every island, all living because they are fans of the Adriatic. And then in that sense, of course, that we can, as we do regular joint exercises with Italians and Slovenians with sea-saving firefighters, and that's what we do, and there's solidarity and it's all normal. And then it would be expected that it is possible to do it in this direction if we happen for such a policy and surely there are also people in Italy who recognize it and who together with us, along with Slovenians, will help us to monitor both drones and satellite footage and we will see which carts really brake and destroy the health of the Adriatic and that small fish fund. What is important when we talk about the health of the Adriatic, then it is certain that there is a healthy sea because only the healthy sea implies a healthy plankton from which then the fish fund can be restored, it also means the healthy bottom of the Adriatic with its flora and fauna, last time I talked about these aggressive algae that are very harmful to us and we see what is happening to the shells, with the wigs, already the colleagues have spoken about it but what is more important, that is that we must avoid drilling under the bottom of the Adriatic because we need nothing and in that sense any LNG and this important policy that goes parallel to the green plan, it does not go, it is this double, hypocritical, ridiculous, unconsistent policy that I have to say, HDZ implements. And just the health of the Adriatic has to do with climate neutrality until 2025, that's only 30 years from now. Look at what you've done in 30 years from the Croatian state and now one earthquake this devastating shows in Banja. HDZ, of course. The continuity of HDZ policy has done so. It's clear to everyone. And everybody knows that. 30 years, what did you do? Let's think about it, here's the Roman, the Roman makes those fast cars, he's fantastic, but why a Roman who's an expert really understands himself. What? [[Intruder President: Comrade Matul, please return to the topic however.]] I'll be right there on the subject. [[You've left the topic a little bit, come back.]] Around the Adriatic, around the IGP, can you, I thank you President because right now you've given me quite a focus to this, I apologize for not being clear, but believe that the Roman of the moment that has all the technology, if he can do it for the auto-industry, means he knows batteries, he knows the aggregates that we can install in ships, and we can insist that all these people who come to us won't even bother us so much if he's going to be on this drive and he won't be on fossil fuels, and he won't be your strongest minister, Coric, with the greatest trust of the Croatian public, who through LNG and through the fantasies about the drilling of the Adriatic and I probably don't know about the creation of any oil and gas fields, instead of being your Roman with the shipyards offering what the whole world is looking for. [[Intruder President: Please.]] The whole world is looking for a way to get the ships on the run and how to run without using fossil fuels. And that's possible, anyway, Elon Musk soon takes him away as the entire world's car industry because now he's got, he's got satellites up there, he's gonna make these cars, and it's clear to all of us that none of us are going to drive their cars to show up important because you're just gonna call, the car is going to come for you by autopilot somewhere and there's not gonna be any need for cars at all. But all Adriatic lovers, all of Europe and those rich in Europe, will understand and we can show that we are an example and that just from a healthy Adriatic with Italians, together with Slovenians we will spend something that can heal and bring new modern technologies to Croatian shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26991	Thank you, too. Now let's go to the last debate, it's SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26992	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, my fellow Members and fellow MPs. There's that metaphor about a rock in a shoe. It's a case where something symbolic insulates you so much and bothers you and you feel like an injustice that you want to fix it and that's this story about IGP. So, the differences between the ZERP we have today and the IGP that we will declare with effect on February 1st, can be compared to that rock in the shoe, that's about what Bačić said, it won't change much, something can change, and I hope that within the frameworks of the European common fisheries policy, together with other EU members, this European sea or the Croatian but European sea, we will protect it in the best way that it can be in line with our interests by respecting the interests of others. So the story of IGP and ZERP is not really a story of fishing, but of Croatia and Croatia's EU path, and it would be more of a story of fishing and political complaining than of fishing itself. On May 5, 1990, Eurosong, 1990, was held at Vatroslav Lisinski Hall. There he was with the song "Insieme" or in translation from the Italian "Toto Cutugno", and then Yugoslavia represented Thaci with the song "Let's Go Crazy". That's how I feel about this IGP debate. I'd like it all on two groups. For the Insieme Groups ("Together") and the "Let's Go Crazy" Groups and a little bit of this appeal. It's not bad, let's say in 2003 HDZ had a debate of the type "Let's go crazy" and SDP is the type of debate "Insieme" and in 2020 this right opposition has a debate of the type "Let's go crazy" and HDZ has the type "Insieme", so it's a little bit like this historical justice that happens after 20 years. I see you understand what this is all about. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues of the SDP club will support the amendment to enter into force on February 1st, as they would probably support that you said on February 1, 3rd and 1.5th and 1.12. and tomorrow, so it is time for the story to finally end. I had the honour of participating in a debate on NATO accession, in the debate on EU accession, so here I have the honour and to take part in the debate on the IGP, and I hope that more Schengen will then be decided to round up the story. When I mentioned Tot Cougn in that song that was one verse that we all probably all remember, I'll say it in Italian "Sempre piu libernoi", so "We're always more free," is how my colleague Fabianic translated it well, and now we're free to declare IGP, and we haven't been so free so far. Why? Because it was the interest of the Republic of Croatia to declare the IGP, but the interest of the Republic of Croatia is good relations with its neighbours, so if we were to sacrifice the difference between IGP and ZERP, we should have gotten something on the other side. Perhaps this money for the recovery of earthquakes from Europe, perhaps for the consequences of the covid. We have the right to build artificial islands when IGP is declared, that we worry about these naturals how we care, but it doesn't matter, so we have to build artificial islands, but we can't act like we're an island, we have relations with neighbors. And what Mr. Bartulica said about courtship, so if we didn't react by leaving the arbitration agreement for Slovenia, it was one reaction not to courting, it was a reaction to an attempt by our neighbours. There are other cases where, for example, I am sure that even the European bureaucracy is not good for their ears to hear what the Prime Minister or Prime Minister now say about the situation in BiH every time, maybe it is. But we have to choose our battles carefully, we can't all attack, all of us in defense, and we can fight each other. Therefore, this tactical shift that we had around ZERP and IGP is due to the interests of our European partners in Italy who have now shifted a little south and towards Albania and towards third countries, and we have been given the opportunity to finish this story and we will finish it. To some next occasion, I welcome you all and congratulate us on what it means to declare the IGP, and I hope that we will then clap because at the 12th month those who clapped did not realize that we did not make the decision, so the applause was so. It wasn't a decision, it was the conclusion that these reports were accepted from the meeting, and we'll make a decision at the first next vote and if you don't have a quorum, and 76 for all these reasons we'll help you declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26993	Here's a little more so it was missing to the clap, I feel, I feel. This is what we came to the end of the debate. Also on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Gordan Grlic Radman appears finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26994	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here are my humble 20-minute minutes in which I weigh between emotions and racio, of course always prevailing racio. But I think a lot of things are said, argued, elaborated, there's no need to get into the confirmation of something that's confirmed what's known. However, they cannot be taken from the impression and cannot go beyond the difamations directed both to the Croatian government and to Croatian diplomacy, to the Croatian president, to the Croatian Prime Minister and to me here are foreign affairs and to my associates. We are honorable men and each of our honors proves it. I'm sorry that Mr. Zekanovic isn't here, but he was talking about public deception, although I think it's the other way around. What I liked very much about Mr. Zekanovic is that he compared me with the Prime Minister, which is a compliment, and I'm glad there's no difference there, although there's a difference between me and Mr. Zekanovic, I'm doing, and he's spreading the truth. This untruth again seems to me based on some other person's experience, somewhere in the 16th century Francis Bacon spoke of idols, he presented a certain theory of idols when he claimed that people were not willing to live by their own experiences, by their own knowledge, rather than by their own knowledge, that it was easier for them to manage prejudices, and those prejudices were called idols. And then there are also theatre idols when we want someone else's authoritative opinions because he's been very much referring to some people, experts who know something about maritime law, but I respect that, of course, but that should be known. So when something that someone else knows about and actually relys on, means something that he didn't know or didn't live through, examined etc., he's relying on it to interpret it as something that's credible or something that has a standoff or a foundation. In fact, it's nothing but voluntary acceptance of other people's delusions. In my life, if a man doesn't know something or half-knows something, then he'd rather not know something and keep quiet about it than know a lot of things in half. It's no shame. So I can't allow the same use of sinukura, so Mr. Bartulica isn't there, courting etc., that's all kind of words without a standoff, and we don't really know what it means to be courting if a man has his own integrity, if he represents an appropriate institution because I don't need the syncara, and certainly least of all to Andrej Plenkovic, we can do anything in life because we're qualified, but Mr. Zekanovic can't. When my colleague Bartulic speaks of boldness, I agree that it's a boldness, but there's crazy courage, and there's courage that requires brains, understanding. What do you think we could do in '91? within 3 months to free Croatia, it took us long enough, many lives died. All this is a confirmation of Croatian sovereignty, the IGP is a confirmation of Croatian sovereignty. Therefore, Mr. Bartulica, who was my former colleague of boldness, proves by his remnant in the service of foreign affairs, not leaving, leaving, and then we have means it's easy to speak and criticize. Therefore, I do not agree with his assessment, just as Croatian diplomacy has never had more brilliant results than in the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Mr. Matula was pleased when he said the health of the Adriatic and I wrote it down myself, although in every way, very well. Then I didn't know if you were acting or when you said "what is HDZ and what Croatia has done in the last 30 years.?’ That's what I gave you, here, here, that sentence of yours, fat. First of all HDZ created the Croatian state. HDZ created the Croatian state and 30 years ago. You know where you've been. I told you that you were a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party you wouldn't be in today, for example. in Bundestag, and look at Croatian society, Croatian democracy. HDZ, the Croatian state has democratisationd Croatia, and you did not participate and you know where you were. So, you're in the assembly, you can play your part, you have an audience, I congratulate you, but don't and don't have the right to affect HDZ because it's the only state-run party. I am pleased with all these contributions from all the other speakers here and here I am glad that the SDP has absolutely recognised the importance of the IGP because it is a recognition of the importance of national interests. What are national interests? It's not that you can do anything overnight. Everything takes time, it takes process, it takes procedure. We've been in this last month and two days, and here on December 19th we've had a trilateral in Trilaster in Trilaste, so we keep working, we talk, we want to remove any obstacle, the obstacle, it's not easy to declare IGP, don't think it's simple. This precedes a lot of analysis, a lot of professional debates, a lot of meetings because in our interest it is clear to us that the neighbour of Italy, Slovenia, and Mr. Bauk talked about it, absolutely you must, it is a serious approach. We're not alone, we can't use wire, so being like the former, the former state is, why do you still have some prejudice when we talk about neighbors, because that's exactly the negative, that bad syndrome, the infection. In order for the former state to be held, she had to tell every citizen of that former state that we are surrounded by the enemy, and therefore we have clearly all these consequences, and surely when that mentality that we still remember as such disappears, when new generations come, educated generations, educated generations, generations who can speak, who compare their place with other places because you always learn from the better ones, you have to learn from the better ones, and when someone claims to know then it has to prove that he knows. We know how the famous Greek philosopher said "now I know that I know nothing". That's nice to say, to admit, so now I know I don't know anything, so it's the greatest act of intellectual humility that Mr. Bulj's humility says, but if you're not sure then let's not talk about something wide, and we don't have arguments. Because these days I've just been listening to statements, but we don't have arguments. So, we came here with the amendment, and with one date to suggest that date, and this one we had by respecting exactly HS, respecting HS, the debate in December of the month where we were in some way indirectly hired because it's ours too in diplomacy you need to know both the time and the procedure, there has to be one behaviour, conversation, we're responsible, and responsibility is rewarded, it's actually being rewarded because you're investing in the sense that you have credibility in the international community, in the world order, we're not alone. We're talking about what the differences between Trump and Biden are, so often the return of multilateralism is said, the world has become multipolar so we have to have balanced access everywhere if we want to be globally visible. And being a relatively small country or having a relatively small country means only a brief memory of the modern Croatian state, nothing discourages us from being an equal factor in the international community. Therefore, it is boldness. Courage is measured, not in the way you think, but there are different criteria and different standards of courage, respect and respect. You mentioned Mr. Bauk, BiH, thank you for also mentioning on your part, so that in some ways when we talk about BiH, of course, the civil model of the state is simply not applicable in a multiethnic environment and community like BiH. If we're talking about models, no one has the right to impose a model on one country, but we should ask three constituent nations, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs what they think about it, and then we can talk about models. But in order for models to be applicable, it is necessary to ensure the democratisation of society Okay, I'm sorry, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Minister, come back on topic, please.]] In principle here, I will actually shorten and not speak for long, I just want to look back at these words, I thank you for listening to me, and once again here I am pleased to present this amendment with its application on February 1st, so when it is this, the opportunity to vote on the amendment proposed by the Croatian Government, Mr. President, the distinguished ladies, the representatives of HS, the gentlemen of HS, this respected legislative highest body, I am pleased to speak here on behalf of the Government, as a representative of the resolution of the exclusive economic belt, means when it is voted and when it is he, be, when you actually vote on the entry into force of February 1st, so I am really excited, that this is a great honor, that it can be declared in 2021, the Croatian public wants, Croatian citizens, Croatian fishermen. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26995	We're not going to say hello yet because you have 12 replicas and we're going to go first. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26996	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we really heard in this debate the hard words, and that doesn't have to upset us too much, maybe we'll hear them during the replica. However, there is this Latin saying verba volunteer script manent. These difficult words, or as you said, will be carried away by the wind, will remain written in history that on behalf of the Croatian Government today you have proposed a declaration of the economic belt and that you will receive HS support for this. This is not the reason for some triumphalism, but yes, the reason for the satisfaction of protecting the Adriatic and protecting Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26997	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26998	Thank you very much for this, you have been a minister so that you know that this has been our effort and that this is one of the procedural consequences of our persistent, bold, painful but therefore working in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u26999	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27000	Thank you very much. Minister, since you have humbly offended a good part of the parliamentary deputies, which is your legitimate right, I am glad that we will declare an exclusive economic belt... We have also declared this amendment to be reduced by the deadline of the declaration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in your debate, there was nothing but the declaration of an exclusive economic belt and damage that has not so far been declared an exclusive economic belt. I personally believe that he created the Croatian state of the Croatian people and the aspirations of the Croatian people through history, the Croatian soldier along with the people. What's the role that you wouldn't be talking about now and what HDZ was then, which is today HDZ, which is in 2000 HDZ from arrest, location, transfer, from your ideal leader Vladimir Seks, but you often attack exclusively the socialist regime. Well, your father was the director of Agroprotein. And he became the owner of Agroprotein after. You are among the 200 richest families and you are all the time You're attacking people, so you didn't live in Bulgaria [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Well, you lived in Yugoslavia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27001	Comrade Bulj, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27002	Yeah, you keep saying that, I think that, you were then a socialist Croat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27003	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27004	Here, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Intruder: Here, if I may.]] Incomprehensible/.../... [[No, you can't, you can't, you can't, you're done. .../]] President of HS, the Honorable Ministers, we heard a lot of things here and I think that a lot of the words spoken here in this assembly is not a place, but, well, the genealogy of events related to the exclusive economic belt we understood and we understood that at the moment of the creation of an independent state of Croatia we had to build a wise responsible policy and clearly at the moment when the Homeland War began we did not have a friend thanks to the wise politics of Dr. Tudjman and all, we have actually managed to achieve all the significant strategic goals of the Croatian state and I think we can be proud. Of course, at that point, we couldn't show our self-will, make certain decisions that would only harm us, and I think this is the right way. And the right time to declare the belt. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27005	Thank you, Mr. Simicevic, but I doubt you'll be here, I mean, I agree with everything you've said, but here I'm going to use these 55 seconds of my own, so I would just say to Mr. Bulju, that I'm so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27006	You can't answer to other ministers, you have to find some form that you don't answer to them, but you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27007	The gentleman spoke of my father, whom I am proud of, and if Mr. Bull had 10% of my father, he would also respect him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27008	Okay, let's not do that now, let's not take all this down for a personal discussion, let's be serious. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27009	Dear Minister, I must say, it's been a little embarrassing to listen to these last five to ten minutes and that the things you've been saying here shouldn't really be said in public space like that, but it goes to your soul. But I'll say something else. You have repeated something that actually repeats and your boss, Prime Minister Plenkovic, which is that Croatia = HDZ and you said that in a much worse form, did you say that HDZ created the Croatian state and thus insulted all those who left their lives and health for this country and did not and will not be HDZ. And I'll tell you one more thing. Croatia was before HDZ. What's the question, what's left of it after HDZ? And no HDZ is not equal to this state, the state is all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27010	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27011	Well, of course we're all, the country's all of us. It's, it's not, I think you've misread the Prime Minister. Of course HDZ what I said as a state-of-the-art party, so you look at history a little bit, you were probably young at the time, but you should watch, I mean actually watch the history of the Croatian state from the beginning, I mean from semi-soverencies, of meaning of the Hungarian common crown, so the Habsburgs etc., so you will see that the modern Croatian state is first free. Yes, Croatia has always been, and what kind of Croatia? It is important to have an appropriate strategist and military leader, political strategist and military leader at those moments of the former state's collapse. The role of President Tudjman and HDZ was crucial to the creation of Croatia's modern Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27012	Thank you. Let's try to stick to the subject. Here you go, Comrade Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27013	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if I agree, the Assembly is certainly not the Bundestag, as Yugoslavia was not the DDR, it is a huge difference. 80% of your members were in that party, and inside you destroyed it, and you're proud of it. You've been in there doing your country's work, destroying and destroying the party from the inside, like you've done for 30 years. You're destroying Croatia as well. Here's Žinići, here's a hole that this earthquake opens up, your personnel are opening up everywhere, you don't know who you'd bring in today, and that's that, unlike utopia, it's the dystopia of the Croatian destructive community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27014	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of your colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27015	Dear fellow Matula, you have injured Rules of Procedure 238. This team from HDZ is a picture and opportunity of the Socialist Yugoslavia, as Grlic's father, Radman, was a communist director, and now he presents Bulju because he does not have 10% of his father, as a Croatian defender he could not even have because they have assumed all the key functions in this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27016	Comrade Thunder, please, come on, please, you're getting a natural warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27017	But Mr. Grmoy...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27018	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. First of all, my colleague Grumo's warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well. Secondly, I urge you not to open the issue of parenting right now and so because I don't think that's really appropriate and let's talk about the subject that we've found ourselves here today and what's the topic of the agenda, so I invite you to calm down a little bit of passion. Of course, if you get a little bit out of the question that I'm gonna tolerate it, but if we're leaving now for a debate that has nothing to do with it, and we're starting to insult ourselves, I don't think it's right. Here's an answer to what my colleague Matula said. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27019	Well, what Matula was saying is I just see actually nostalgia for this communist party, so we don't see some kind of, I don't know what to say, but anyway, I don't think I can stay this one just to really mention this father. So, still when, did you know my father? Ask around and if you were this one percent of my father then you'd be a good man and then I'd respect you. I don't know who your father is, but my father knows everyone. Ask around, sir. Every man has his name and name and his work and his works. My man was a good man not because I said it but what others say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27020	Thank you very much. Come on, please, colleague of the bush, colleague of the bush, please, we really have already entered a sphere that I think is completely inappropriate. Now let's go back to the debate, we can criticise ourselves, we can criticize parties and policies, but let's not do this right now. Now it's time for my colleague Vuciilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27021	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, I'm glad you're thrilled that Croatia after 29. Since international recognition declares the economic belt, we may have been able to do so before, but here I am also a legalist and I believe that everything should go according to the law and procedures. I volunteered for the replica because, despite the fact that HDZ was a very significant factor during the creation of an independent Croatia, you gave a bold statement that HDZ created a Croatian state, which I, as the person who spent the entire war in Osijek, really cannot accept. Croatian people and all residents have shown great unity as they are now during the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County and let us not make such statements because a part of people like me who have never been a member of the HDZ feel Still hurt. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27022	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27023	Thank you very much. Mrs Vucilović, I agree, of course, that all Croatians, Croatian citizens, but I said that the late president is the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman and HDZ have played a crucial role in the creation of the Croatian state. Surely there were no democratic elections exactly and that HDZ did not traffic to the leading party led by Franjo Tudjman to question what the Croatian state would look like. You know how long it took us, first of all, after the international recognition of January 15, 1992. Three and a half years to Storm and then clearly three years to peaceful integration. So it was a long trip, so let's see it that way, it wasn't easy to create a Croatian state, but I certainly agree with Croatian defenders and Croatian citizens of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27024	Thank you. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27025	The Honorable Ministers. I volunteered for the replica because of the way you addressed the opposition. You repeat what your leader repeats, you repeat it all from HDZ as a broken record, you are constantly saying that you are being disfigured by the opposition, not by the difaming opposition of HDZ diphiming your thieving and your results. And when we talk about you personally, you diphrase and embarrass Croatia in the country and abroad often send a message to the educated, educated citizen of Croatia that everyone can be a minister, at least because of their education. You're giving your translators a lot of trouble abroad. And if we want Croatia to become a modern, successful, progressive country of happy people, then it is a very important role of opposition that will point to everything the HDZ has been doing for the last 30 years which is because of fraud, which is because of incompetence. If you'd done your job right a month ago when we first discussed the economic belt, we wouldn't have had to go to juvie today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27026	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27027	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really don't know what to say to you right now, I mean what you said is very surprising to me first that you can evaluate and evaluate actually give the grades okay, I'm allowing everyone to have the right to perception, but perception is actually always a subjective response to reality. I don't really know what that subjective reflection is about, based on what you're taking part in our foreign ministers' meetings so that you can see what we're talking about, how I contribute to the protection of Croatian interests or participate in our bilaterals. It's proof to you that in recent months we've had ministers who haven't been there for 10, 15 years, so I don't know what the evidence is for you, I am educational enough or capable or incompetent enough, so I can take that ignorance of you, but I can't really judge you, but I can't just as easily as your point of view, not your argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27028	My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27029	I am pleased that there is a consensus on the introduction of the economic belt, it has been said many times today that circumstances have arisen, but we should always commend the wise and smart man, Ivica Racan, who had the wisdom to protect Croatian interests 20 years ago and already introduce ZERP then. It was introduced by the Ivica Racan and then the SDP government. Unfortunately, you started on the subject at one point, you started talking about some other topics, you were talking about the Bundestag so that people from the non-democratic parties couldn't be in the Bundestag stand, but then at the same time you said HDZ created the Croatian state. You're equating the state and one party to HDZ, and that's exactly what the totalitarian spirit is, that's where you made the same mistake you said you were criticizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27030	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27031	Thank you very much. But here I am, too, to my colleague, Vucilović, who told her what role HDZ played, clearly and later surely the Government of National Unity, certainly contributed and I allow that all of the institutions are factors and parties that were turned towards homogenising the nation, the people in turn and the protection of Croatian interests in the Homeland War, in fact we all welcome and remember and history is certainly facts unequivocally, but I am saying again, so the first Croatian president and HDZ played a crucial role.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27032	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27033	Thank you. I've put a lot of your lines on the line right now, and I've run out of pens, but in the meantime, the atmosphere has calmed down. So, I've noticed ministers with you are an incredible talent to succeed on a topic that we all agree to raise tension at the end of the line, the quality of a true diplomat would say. So now that you've already explained what you thought under this that HDZ created Croatia it's one narrative that you have to fix in another sentence, so there's no need for that. Of course, the political leadership of Croatia at that time based on the results of the... multilateral elections had HDZ at one point the government of democratic unity was formed, after which were elections and after that came the next elections. In those elections afterwards HDZ was confused because in the European path Croatia was brought to a dead end and then we took it and returned it to the European path we are on today, there is no need to return so much. I went back to Eurosong, but I see we're back even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27034	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27035	Thank you very much. I'm glad you support the IGP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27036	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27037	Thank you very much. I would, in fact, repeat that I disagree with your statement that HDZ created the Croatian state and that you actually insulted all Croatian defenders and defenders who were not members of the HDZ, all Croatians, Serbs, Roma, Italians who were not members of the HDZ or supported HDZ policy. All we can think of is General Stipetic, who was not a member of the HDZ, who surrendered to a whole Corps in Banja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27038	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27039	You know sometimes in a statement there's a reduction you know in that, of course, so I was just saying it... but you have to have a gossiping leadership you know. There were many Croatian intellectuals with wonderful speeches, but not everyone can be a strategist, not everyone can lead and evaluate when and how you can win some battles, and we were attacked by Milosevic's regime and it was a difficult situation where you have to make key decisions. That was important. Of course, without defenders, without what your party, if you don't have a people, if you don't have ready and Croatian defenders, Croatia is created on blood, and that is unequivocally, and that is, the lives of Croatian defenders and missing persons, in the end, that is the same thing, not the civilians for which we are still searching and we have to work with Serbia to know where they are gone, these are important elements and they are in the foundations of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27040	A colleague of Totgelgeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27041	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, today we heard very interesting debates through debates, but we also heard debates that were a little naughty. Some new political options appear as if nothing had been done before, and nothing good has been done and everything, they like to criticize everything, and in doing so, they do not put the decisions they criticise in the space and time these decisions were made. During history, HDZ has been able to make difficult decisions at exactly the right time, even when a decision was made not to declare an exclusive economic belt, as well as today when a decision is made to declare an exclusive economic belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27042	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27043	Thank you very much, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27044	And the last replica, colleague Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27045	Thank you very much. Your Honor, this is an excellent story of successful and smart. The Croatian Government has made lower success, imposed itself on the international community by protecting its national interests, continuously achieving successes, and the request of an exclusive economic belt, as you have stated, and in this final presentation, will give security to our fishermen, all other sectors that will benefit from it, and this is a great honor today for Croatia and the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27046	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27047	Thank you very much, ma'am. Baricevic. Here I will only use this one minute to thank you for a constructive debate, for contributing, it is actually very important that Croatian MPs in HS actually contribute themselves to these, national interests, representing national interests, and also by questioning. The government is always ready, you know this, of course, it's our job, but it's always good that there are arguments and somehow there, that this thin culture between heat and polemics, the debate and so, it's a little different you know and that there are a lot more arguments presented than our own views, in order to contribute as much to the better democracy and democracy of society, even better protection of the Croatian public who is watching us and, of course, we are all actually in one position, and that is the protection of Croatian interests, you in the Parliament, we in the executive government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-0.u27048	I thank the minister. You're welcome to return to your seat. The debate is over. Now we're going to take a break by 11 o'clock and 50 minutes and then we're going to continue with the DORH report. It's 11:00.31.
