ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u44592	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed two points of the agenda and we will discuss one, each one, first one. At the 18th session held on 5 July 2021, the mandate-immunity committee of HS discussed the request of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor under No. I.4098/2021 of 29 June 2021 referred to the President of HS, acting on 30 June 2021 for the authorisation of the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Vinko Grgić, a representative in HS, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence of the receipt of a bribe from the Article. 293th century 1 of the Penal Code and abuse of positions and powers of art. 291 century 2 in conjunction with Article 1 of the Penal Code which has caused damage to the European Structural and Investment Funds. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has jurisdiction over investigations, prosecutions and the launch of criminal proceedings that have caused damage to the EU budget. The Office shall perform the functions of prosecutors in the EU Member States and shall take part in the Office of the European Public Prosecutor on 1 June 2021. Vinko Grgić, representative of the 10th meeting of the HS and based on art. 76 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 23. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the HS shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. After the debate has been held, the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the HS by majority vote, 5 for and 1 against the proposal of the HS to take the following decision: Approval is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vinko Grgic, representative at HS at the request of the European Public Prosecutor's Office No. I.4098/2021 of 29 June 2021 on the grounds of reasonable doubt that he has committed a criminal offence of taking bribes from art. 293th century 1 and abuse of positions and powers of art. 291 century 2 in conjunction with Article 1 of the Penal Code which has caused damage to the European Structural and Investment Funds. Explanation. The mandate-immunity committee has decided to propose to the HS an authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against representatives in HS Vinko Grgić at the request of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor as an independent body of the Union which is competent to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences in order to carry out its duties effectively under Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor of the EPPO. Secondly, at the 19th session held on 12 July 2021, the mandate-immunity commission of HS discussed the written notice of MP Rada Boric addressed to the president of HS by act of 8 July 2021, which informed the president of HS that on the basis of Article 20. 14 Law on election of MPs in HS puts its parliamentary mandate to rest on 15 September 2021, then a statement by Milan Kekin certified before public notary Tihan Sudra from Zagreb, Frankopanska 2a, on 7 July 2021, which does not wish to act as deputy representative and a letter from the political party Nova Lovica-NL addressed to the president of HS on 8 July 2021 signed by the President of the New Left-NL Ivana Kekin, who is appointed by Ivana Kekin on 15 September 2021, was elected representative in the 10th meeting of the HS as a candidate with the highest number of preferential votes won, 21,06% on the list We can!, the political platform Nova Lovica-NL, the only of Croatia. Milan Kekin is the first next unelected candidate with the highest number of preferential votes won, 20%, from the list We can!, the political platform Nova left-NL, the Radnička front-RF, the Sustainable Development of Croatia-ORAH, Zagreb is Naš, FOR GRAD in the 7th constituency. The Commission has established that, on the basis of its statement of 7 July 2021, Milan Kekin does not wish to exercise its right to act as deputy representative. The deputy representative shall be based on an article. The 42nd century 3 of the Law on Elections of MPs for HS, unless there are unselected candidates according to preferential votes from the same political party on the list of two or more political parties, determines the political party to whom the term of office had ceased or rested at the time of the election. As on the list We can!, the political platform Nova levica-NL, the Workers' Front-RF, the Sustainable Development of Croatia-ORAH, Zagreb, the City of the 7th Election Unit was no longer a candidate who received more than 10% of the preferential votes, in accordance with Article. 42st century 3 Law on election of MPs in HS, Nova left-NL has appointed Ivana Kekin as deputy representative of Rada Boric. The Commission has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Rada Boric's term of office and the conditions for the start of the conduct of MP Ivana Kekin's office as of 15 September 2021, followed by the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission on the basis of the Article. 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS the decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and the start of the term of office of MPs. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 114 and 11 and 42st century 3 Laws on election of MPs in HS and Art. 9th century 2 and Article 2 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS to make a decision on the stay of the representative's representative's mandate and to start acting as deputy deputy deputy. On 15 September 2021, MPs Rada Boric, acting on 15 September 2021, began to act as deputy deputy representative of Parliament Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u44593	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate, and that's what we'll vote on when the conditions are met. This will end with today's work and we will continue the session tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m. with a statement on amendments to the discussed points. Have a good evening. Session interrupted at 18.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57151	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Today we begin with: - Final proposal of the Waste Management Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 132 The Proposer is the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Now the proposing representative will give us an additional explanation. With us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57152	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. The final proposal of the Waste Management Act, I will go through those parts and those articles that we accepted between the two readings as your suggestions. Therefore, the following articles have been substantially amended in relation to the first reading in the final proposal of the law, the Art. 11th century 1 which is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead of the Minister for Decision-Making in the event of prevention or elimination of damage caused by force majeure or in the event of other danger material goods and the environment. This remark was to ask for a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, and we accepted that. Art. Article 36(5) is amended as word and replaced by word, or the provision now states that the financial guarantee is a bank guarantee or other equivalent financial instrument such as an insurance policy or other. And that's looking for the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection. Art. We changed the 70th refer to a public service and in which section 5 was deleted that the user of public service which is not in the household of the collection service of recycling waste contract with the authorised person under commercial conditions. This was a request for a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, and we accepted this suggestion. Art. 73. which refers to a public service and in which the term household is replaced by a wider term by a user and thus extends the scope of the criteria for reduced public service prices that must encourage all users, not just households to hand over biowaste separately, recycling waste, bulk waste, hazardous waste from mixed municipal waste. This suggestion was at the request of parliamentary representatives of Mrs Mirjana Puljak and Mrs Mirela Ahmetovic and we accepted it. Art. The 135rd century 3. relating to public service and when, in the control of the legality of the decision on how to provide public service, the Ministry suspends the application of the decision of the representative body of the local self-government unit or the City of Zagreb, instead of the temporary decision, it is necessary to take a decision on the necessary way to provide public service and to charge the single public service prices during the suspension of the decision. The same article adds paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 whereby the executive body of the local self-government unit, or the City of Zagreb, is obliged to deliver a decision on the necessary provision of public service to the Ministry and to publish in the official messenger and on the website of the units of local self-government within 15 days of the date of adoption. Then, if the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia withdraws the decision of the representative body of the unit of local self-government on how to provide public service, the representative body is obliged to take a new decision within 45 days of the date of publication of the ruling of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the New People's Republic, and until a new decision is taken, public service shall be provided by means of a decision on the necessary way to provide public service and to charge the single price of the service. This suggestion was at the request of the Department of Justice and Administration. Art. The 168th century 1 added points 20., 25 which are prescribed fines amounting to 10 to 100,000 kuna for the violation of the City of Zagreb or the unit of local self-government if they do not comply with the above mentioned article. In 135 and does not make a decision on the necessary way to provide public service and to charge a single price during the suspension of the decision. If the decision on the necessary way of providing public service is not prescribed and has not been delivered to the Ministry or has not been published in the official messenger and on the website of the local self-government units within the prescribed time limit and the local self-government unit has not ensured the provision of public service based on a decision on the necessary way to provide public service. This sanction was intended to be sought by the Ministry of Administration and Justice. We've changed art too. Article 181(4) 192 which deletes the dates of July 3, 2021, which is the deadline laid down in Directive 904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment and the deadline for meeting those obligations is set as the date of entry into force of this law. This deadline applies to Art. The 181st publication of a description of the measures to reduce the consumption of plastic products for single use in the list and Appendix 3 to this Act, i.e. glasses, food containers, etc. And Art. 17th century 1. prohibition on the placing on the market of plastics for single use in the list b of Appendix 3, these are sticks, straws, cutlery, plates, cups, bowls, etc. and products made of oxo-degradable plastic. Changed Art. Article 185(2) where the deadline from 12 to 6 months for the adoption of the rulebook is reduced. 5. So these are the rules which the ministry is obliged to adopt to comply with this text of the law and finally, Appendix 3, with each list of single plastic products, that is the list A, from the list A to the list of G, were added to the subheadings in accordance with Directive 904, which marked the obligation for a particular list of products to be searched with, that was on the request of the Assembly Committee for Environmental and Nature Protection. The Legislative Committee had 64 nomotechnical remarks that we accepted, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction had 4 nomotechnical remarks which we also accepted and installed in this text of the law. The Ministry of Administration had 27 nomotechnical remarks, the same was accepted by the Government and the Government's Office of Law had 11 remarks of nomotechnical character and they were incorporated into this Bill proposal, so this is now finally a consolidated text for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57153	Stay, Secretary of State, you have several replicas. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57154	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you have made a series of small corrections and remarks that you have accepted in this version of the law, but what you do not want to accept and what you are constantly pushing, it is this expensive system of waste management centres that cost a lot of our citizens, and which will make it more expensive, it will ultimately pay for citizens, instead of finally turning to the circular economy, meaning building more varieties, recycling yards, and it is actually the only way we can meet these goals that are ahead of us. So stick to that system that's more expensive, which is ultimately worse and more harmful to the environment and that doesn't go in that direction that you're declaring to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57155	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57156	I thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, regarding the management centres, they are covered, provided only in principle. 12 and Art. 13. The management centres are defined in the waste management plan that this government found, so they were already in the PGO defined, defined locations, defined this, this, this quantity, etc., we're just implementing what was in the management plan drawn up. We didn't say a way of funding or capacity here, we don't define these things in this Law, but one basic question is, if we set goals that by 2030 we'll have recycled around 60% of the amount of municipal waste, and 10% we can delay, what are we going to do with that 30% of municipal waste that isn't recycled and that can't be delayed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57157	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57158	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we all know, it is no secret that Croatia stands very badly when it comes to the amount of plastic that is collected separately and recycled, we are at the very beginning of the EU. It is also known that as of this year, the EU has adopted a new regulation, a new tax based on the quantity of unrecycled plastics at EU level. Did our Ministry of State where you are the Secretary of State do some projections of how much our care and disorganization will cost the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia in some future period, at least by 2030, although it would be logical because all projections are done by 2050, that we have a certain figure of how much this will cost us annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57159	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57160	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So we set very high goals with this law, for these reasons we set very high goals in recycling or preparation for the recovery of waste packaging and even plastics because we see it up to '25. 65% of the weight of waste packaging must be recycled or prepared for re-use. Do we have enough technology, industrial capacity for that, that's the question. So we're preparing even one call where we're going to, we're looking now for a statement of interest to see what the interest is exactly that these recycling capacities are getting stronger. So to help the recycling industry boost capacity, to prevent this particular problem, or the danger of paying large taxes for unrecycled tone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57161	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57162	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I will address a problem of mixed municipal waste, specifically in the city of Varazdin. Therefore, over the past few weeks, the town of Varazdin has faced this problem, since the inspection has ordered the removal of mixed municipal waste from the area of a suburban settlement where the cargo station is located, since it serves only to transport waste, not to store or store waste. She threatened that the streets of the city could be covered with garbage, i.e. by waste, and this way I would like to thank both the Ministry and you, the Secretary of State and the Government as a whole, as last week, here is a meeting at the Ministry where, as far as I understand it, I am also asking you, for the sake of the Croatian public, and above all, for the sake of the people of the town of Varazdin, if you can, in short, state what is agreed at that meeting and what is the concrete proposal for a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57164	I thank you, Your Honor. As you said, last week we were dealing with the problem of delayed waste in Varazdin on one surface of the loading station, so the inspection ordered that it was, therefore, banned from the disposal of municipal waste and to that surface, on that surface and ordered the removal and gave a deadline for removing that waste. We found ways to intervene that part of the removal, we talked and the minister talked to the leaders of the city of Varazdin, the newly elected mayor and his associates who realized in fact that local self-government was solely responsible for the management of municipal waste and the implementation of waste management policies in their space. I think we'll get concrete contracts this week with certain landfills where the normal disposal or disposal of waste will then be possible by the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57165	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. I will look back at one problem that is present at local level where because of the lack of awareness of individuals on the one hand and the unfair response of the system on the other hand, it happens that some citizens do not collect waste separately and do not hand it over to the municipal enterprise but rather take care of it, I would say in a rather unacceptable way so that they burn this waste within their households, rarely throw it into forests and water streams. Of course, it worsens the quality of life of the entire local community if it burns even more plastics that can also be gases that have a harmful effect on human health. I wonder how this law will actually respond to the need for stronger control by the communal directors, which by the competent inspection to contain these phenomena in the root? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57167	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57168	I'd like to thank the honourable representative, Petyr. So, Art. In 140th of this law, we clearly defined the powers of the communal director where we predicted that the communal director was authorized to determine the identity of the person who put unauthorized waste in the space. If this is not possible, he shall have the right to seek the assistance and intervention of the competent MUP and, of course, the communal officer may even request some assistance from the judge for the offence in certain cases. Therefore, communal monks should play one key role in local self-government in the control of unauthorized waste disposal in space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57169	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57170	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 16. You define centres for the reuse of waste, so this is something that we now have in this law, I know about some centres, or I hardly can call it centres, I know about some of the activities that are related to the reuse of individual and subject matter and everything else, I wonder how the legislator predicted the way these centres work, or who to set them up, whether there is a theme of private initiative or the theme of the unit of local self-government or regional self-government because, of course, the topic is a very sensitive topic. The theme is in a way that we have to act completely different from what we're doing now, so the subject and reuse and recycling so that I appreciate that it's good to have these centers, but I'm curious about what's... going on? It's one thing to write on paper, and the other is reality. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57171	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57172	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So when we set ourselves goals, we said that the goals were recycling and preparation for reuse. Therefore, reuse centres will have one key role to play in achieving these objectives, these are buildings that carry out waste decategory procedures, they must have a management licence, they must be entered in the collector’s register or must be recorded in the reuse centre’s records at the county office. So, in principle, we envisioned a way of setting up a reuse centre, and so that each decategory can be implemented in a way that sees whether the goods that enters them meet the purpose in essence of the purpose for which it was carried out in order to decategorize it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57173	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57174	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Mr. Secretary of State. It's nice to hear that you accepted certain remarks in your first reading, but I didn't hear you say anything about those remarks I made. I welcome all the changes that go towards achieving the greatest efficiency of waste management, but I think in art. In 97. it is necessary to add collectors and separate the patients from the waste collectors and I will continue to insist because that is the only way to achieve transparency, quality and greater control in this very ticklish terrain where collection and recovery cannot be combined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57175	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57176	I thank you, Your Honor. In any case, the collection and recovery are one technological process, so there is no recovery without the collection without the collected recycling options. You send the amendment and we'll see the content of that amendment in which you're going with your proposal and we'll get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57177	Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57178	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. In the media and the public, we often hear about the bad state of waste management and are always in the first place waste management centres and it would be concluded that we are not investing in other parts of the waste management system, so I wonder if there is a shift and what results are in separate collection of municipal waste and recycling, and did we have investments in infrastructure in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57179	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57180	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, of course, we had that whenever we had a debate on this subject we always pointed out and we apostropheeded the amounts of funds that we had through various projects to build recycling yards, build sorters, compostans, bioenergys, etc. that we've invested. And the fact is that our local self-government, the leaders of local self-government, did not manage in the most brilliant way to consume all these possibilities, so there are probably obstacles and, and property legal relations, etc. certain building regulations. Generally, there is always a certain amount of money available to build waste management systems and infrastructures. We will go through this policy to the end and a certain part of these funds is envisaged in the next operational programme, and with this we will go public when necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57181	Now, will be replicated by Comrade Dragon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, we are witnessing that the president of the State Commission has visited us the other day. Ursula has approved a proposal for our National Recovery and Resistance plan of €47.5 billion. How does this recovery and resilience plan provide for an amount of 1.25 billion kuna for waste management, I would like to know what investments and projects are included in our National Plan and the waste management recovery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57184	Before the answer, just a little Secretary of State, before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57185	He's been injured. In 238, it is not the President of the State Commission, but, I believe, the European Commission. If you in HDZ have any aspirations for the EU to become some kind of support, we will strongly oppose it. So Europe is a community of sovereign, sovereign states.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57186	Thank you very much for your intervention, but it was a lapus, probably everyone knows that except for who's malicious, so here's a warning for that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57187	Thank you. Dear MPs, as you said for the next period, are projected somewhere around a billion and 200 million kuna to build infrastructure and build infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia in waste management. It's mostly projects related to biogas plants, composting construction, recycling yards, disposal, and I think there's something planned even for sorters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57188	Now we're going to be replicated by a colleague named Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57189	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here I would ask you to explain to the public how the waste or disposal of household waste will be paid for, for example, the occasional rent of a room or part of an apartment for tourist purposes, in which way will this be different and in which tariffs, for households or for those for non-domestic purposes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57190	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57191	Dear MPs, so this is about, oh, the structure of the price of public service. We all know that the public service consists of that mandatory part of it and so on. fixed and from the variable part that should encourage citizens to separately collect waste so that they have through that smaller amount of delayed waste in, in, in these, cans have a smaller account. This part relating to, this part of the price relating to a fixed amount, its role is, as we said yesterday on, to the Assembly Committee, that through a certain fixed amount, the constant amount in the account ensures quality service to all citizens and those who have a higher amount of waste and those who have fewer quantities of waste because that truck passing through must pass past all users. So on the leaders of local self-government it is to bring the price list and implement the price policy in providing services in, in, waste management at JLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57192	Thank you very much. Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57193	Your Honor, Secretary of State, on the trail of what Mrs. Poirot is. Bencic just asked if you could repeat it for the Croatian public. So, who determines the price of mandatory minimum public service, is that JLS? Does the JLS also have the possibility to also adopt criteria for reducing the price of mandatory minimum and public services, and in particular with an emphasis in the context of private tenants that would fall under this category into non-households? So as far as I'm reading the law, everything's on JLS' representative body that I can bring myself a criterion and a mandatory minimum price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57194	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57195	I thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, the key decision is the JLS decision, meaning the municipal council on how to provide public services. In that decision, we even predicted the possibility of putting in place criteria for reducing prices according to certain situations. That decision then results in a price list. The pricer suggests a service provider. The price list, which is very important, must go to public debates for citizens, 30 days citizens have the right to look at, to, to, to, to, to the elements of that price list. The pricer behind it must give consent and the head of the executive authority, so the mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb must check first of all whether the price list is in accordance with the law, whether there are measures that motivate citizens to separate collection and then give consent to that price list. That pricer has to go to a public hearing, so to the public. Therefore, it is absolutely transparent that the price policy in the use of public service determines local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57196	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57197	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the proposal for this Waste Management Act is clear the entry of this government into the area of green policies that will mark the future 10 years ahead of us and it is clear that we have noticed means a very growing problem of environmental pollution with plastic. We reacted through the amendments to the law, i.e. the law, prohibited means plastic bags from 15 to 50 micrometers, banned products, plastic products for single use and another set of other options provided by the law. We entered clearly with the objectives and for recycling, both for use and for disposal. What's the problem? What we hear from some political options, and that's what they'll probably insist on today, is going into the policy of closing down the waste management center. I ask, given that we have several centers, that we have closed down a number of waste dumps, which would cause such a policy of such options if we went really in that direction and closed down these centers that we built and plus closed it down and all those dumps where it's been put down so far. Is that a waste? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57198	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57199	I thank you, dear representative Boric. So, in particular, that we have closed the centres, and at the same time we have the obligation to close the dumps, and the infrastructure is built to be built according to the initiative of local leaders, I think we would find ourselves in a position not to have anywhere to put off a certain amount of mixed municipal waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57200	Thank you, Secretary of State. You can go back to the scene because the replicas are finished. Would one of the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? Yeah. colleague Bencic, on behalf of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57201	Thank you. At the 20th session, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection discussed the Final Proposal for a Waste Management Act, the Committee discussed this as a home working body. In the opening statement, the State Secretary, and I thank the Secretary of State and all ministry officials who explained this bill very closely yesterday, presented the differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the first draft law. The secretary of state was already talking about it here, so I don't want to talk about the details, I'm going to talk about the things that were actually discussed and the things that were controversial. Following the opening argument, one of the committee members referred to the fact that an opinion was given in the first reading on the non-compliance of the proposed law with the Law on the right to access information. She also addressed the Commissioner for Information and sent him a play pointing to possible injuries. 11. The law on the right to access information, and for the reason that all comments that have arrived, therefore, did not all receive an adequate answer to those answers that are possible under the Law on the right to access to information. The Commissioner has made clear and has taken the subject matter into account of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is responsible for the application of this law and what is important that the Commissioner has concluded that the answer which has been given to certain comments, which does not appear to be an answer, is not provided for by the Law on the right to access to information and that such an answer cannot be given in public consultations. Afterwards, a significant part of the debate was led by the Art. 101, which regulates the incentive fee as a measure encouraging units of local self-government to implement measures under their powers to reduce the proportion of mixed municipal waste in municipal waste generated in the unit area. A question has been expressed about the acceptability of the proposed model from the position of the most successful units of local self-government that generate 60% and more separate waste collection, as they will be punished in this way if, in one year, they are reduced by, for example, 1% separately collection of waste. However, after that, the representatives of the ministry explained in detail that the rate of collected waste would now be seen only within one year, so there will be no more reference years in 2015, because that is why there was this injustice that those who did not increase the rate of separation were already at 50, plus they were actually paying the fines, and they were one of the most successful. I would also like to add that a member of the board of public scientific and professional staff also expressed regret that the Committee did not hold a convened session which was an intensities to consider some additional topics of the proposed law, however, stressed that civil society organisations believe that the proposed law is not ambitious enough, that it is not going in the direction of replacing the regional waste management centres model according to the circular economy and circular economy, and also stressed that the feasibility studies for waste management centres foresee capacities which are much higher therefore for much larger quantities of mixed waste than currently exists at the county level, and believes that these quantities should actually be planned at 2024 and 2025. when we have hope for less mixed waste. We also discussed the issue of the target model, and it was argued by many NGOs that the objective of the National Waste Management Plan was 60% by '22, and now we are at 55% to 2025 as foreseen by this law, but the ministry explained that the difference in these 60% was only to separate waste, hence the rate of separation, and 55% to the rate of separation and recycling, or reuse, so that in some ways the ministry felt that these two things could not be compared. Additional doubts have been expressed and related to the mandatory minimum public service and the price of mandatory minimum public service where users are classified in two categories, the category of household users and the category of horse users is not a household. Therefore, it is pointed out that in the category of non-households, for example, a private small tenant who rents one small room and generates a small amount of waste and on the other hand a large hotel or a small kiosk and on the other side of the factory, and that this price should not be exactly the same but that those categories should differ in order for those who are smaller so that their price is overall lower. Here are some of the key things that we discussed, I will not read everything, you have a very detailed report on both the pages and on the pages of the Assembly Committee, and I believe that we will also hear more information in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57202	Now, we're going to move on to the debate, and first of all, it's MOST's Club of Representatives and dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57203	Good afternoon, everyone. So, just briefly related to the concept and what Boric was saying because our attitude is known, so around the concept of waste management. We presented him while we were part of the government and through concrete policy laws. Boric said, so if we gave up these waste management centres, it would be a question of what we would do in the first place, what kind of situation we would find ourselves in. And the reality and facts deny the politics of the ruling HDZ and Mr. Boric because wherever the waste management centres live, we have problems there, from Mariščina to Kastion, therefore, and as far as air quality is concerned, as far as the costs for citizens are concerned, in terms of waste disposal, and everywhere that concept has been shown to be missed, and now, not now, but throughout this time, by ruling HDZ, Mr. Boric and the Ministry of Environmental Protection are pushing this missed concept and it has proved itself down in Lucin's Range, where we have one phantom agency with 3 employees, where it has been broken into their salaries means millions, and nothing has been realized. We have now and cancelled the tender because the means that have been provided or what has arrived at the number tender are much larger than the money that is intended for it. So it's quite clear that this whole concept has been missed, that we should give up on it and see where it's possible to go into change and not stick to it. You know what Mr. Horvat's argument is, the secretary of state from the ministry, so that's what's planned, that's what we're meant to do. So if something's wrong and it turns out to be bad, then we need to look for this other way, another way, and we have other ways of managing, of managing the waste. So, I think all the clubs got e-mails, so the protests of certain associations dealing with this issue, and in that sense, I think it's time for the government to sit down, see what to do about these waste management centers, so anyway, let's remember the Piškornica, which is why we remember the waste management center than the affairs, so here's where we're built to remember them for the poor air quality, at the higher prices means transportation, and that's something that we can't agree to at MOST. So, we're in favour of the circulatory economy, for more meanings of recycling yards, more varieties. It's the only way we can meet these goals that are set before us. I call therefore on the ruling, I call on my fellow Boric, I call on the ministry to give up the proven bad concept that has shown means bad for both Croatian citizens and the Croatian state, and to stop selling stories that we cannot do without, on the contrary, this concept puts before us one impossible challenge to meet all these goals that we set before us, and ultimately it will cost Croatian citizens more expensively, someone may be calming down, someone will fill their pockets, perhaps that's why Boric is so violently defending this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57204	Let's go. There's no replica. [[Intruder: No replicas]] We now have a second debate, a Center and Voice Representatives Club and a respected colleague of Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57205	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. It's in front of us in the second reading of the Waste Management Act. I'm going to start by pointing out two things that I'm just going to point out for reasons I don't forget, so I decided to do it at the beginning. It is one thing for all the laws we have now lately to define the ex post impact assessment of the rules, and we are always defending ourselves with EU directives. Regulations should be kept under constant control, really seen, none of the laws are carved on stone, into stone and over time to see what and how to change and change quickly and expeditionively. Second thing, communal directors. So it's become permanent in all the laws when we don't know who's supposed to be dealing with something then we transfer it to the communal offices, so the communal directors deal with everything. Among other things, there was a replica of the esteemed secretary of state and he said the communal directors would go, so he recorded, and related to the waste. So they're dealing with dog-cat-touching, junkyards, and a bunch of other things. I think the time has come to really seriously consider the fact that they too are then defined on certain matters, but that is one subject that is broader than this Waste Act. We must finally decide how we treat waste. The waste hasn't been garbage for a long time. The waste has certain values and we must finally decide what and how to do it. It can't happen to us, and we've had a chance to watch it from the front lines to suddenly say that everything we've done so far is wrong and now we're going to start over, and then we're doing it for a year or two, and then we're going back to the old model. It's just not good. It's some kind of decision that needs to be made at ground level, and it has to be permanent. So each of us produces 1,01kg of waste per day. That means at the annual level, each of us produces 370 kilos of waste, and it hasn't been reduced all this time. Analysis has been done over the last 30 years, and that's about it. And now it's just a question of how each and every one of us at home treats waste, how we treat it in terms of management and in terms of units of local self-government and state. When you look at the main goals and principles at all, you have five. One is prevention of occurrence, the other is reuse, the third is recycling, the fourth is the topic or recovery procedures and the fifth is disposal. So in all these procedures, there will always be a part of the waste with which you will not be able to do anything. So there's no perpetum mobile, that you do everything and that it's zero. You won't be able to do anything. But I'd like to start from the beginning. Stopping. So the attitude to waste is starting from the earliest age. Look at our kids in kindergarten. Our children in kindergartens are absolutely raised in a way that separates waste, see that they wear different things from home, wear, when aunts.../incomprehensible/... or I won't say aunts, raise some plastics, bring some cardboard, and the kids do something else from that, it's actually that education from the earliest age of life, I wonder where he disappears along the way. That's what I'm asking for when you get to some percentages, how you're judged by others. Croatia recycles 16%. So we recycle 16%, the European average is 43, recycling and composting, neighbouring Slovenia 62%. That's the information I just collected and went to see that they were the most recent data possible. So that's what the Ministry on the Committee for, the competent Committee on Nature and Environment said was separation and recycling. So you have to separate. You have to separate the house, so it's a process that goes. You have to raise yourself to do it, then you have to learn to separate from home. Then when you learn to separate, you must, for example. learn that if you put something else on paper that's not paper, that that paper won't go on, so if it gets wet, if something happens with that paper, it won't be able to move on. So, the importance of education from the earliest age of life, the importance of our lives, so that's what we have to do at home and what we need to do at home. Then here comes the roles of the local self-government unit which, at the moment of it, is the topic, I'm going to talk about it a little bit more in an individual debate, but that topic that we're opening, and that's how you pay for it. There are, therefore, people who say, we can immediately compare it to vaccination and a lot of things. He says look, I take it apart, and my neighbor doesn't separate it, so it goes into common bins, so I don't care. Well, then, when it's a relationship I don't care about it, it's not a good relationship. So, what you need to encourage, you need to encourage and tell your neighbor, if you live in a multi-state house, you have a paper can, and if you find something in that paper that's not paper, it could throw away, and it lives you in house 20. So one of you 20 could throw it away, couldn't throw someone out of, I don't know, somewhere else. So the waste isn't just the law. It's actually the whole debate I want to lead. We can have the best possible law in the world and we can make legal provisions the best possible, but there's a series of things, a series of things, so. What we're asking the local self-government units to do is, through the price, really the way you pay, there's a possibility of rewarding the one who takes care of it. Is that possible and as far as possible, I'm not sure, but let's try to get as close as possible because part of the price has to be fixed because you have to have cars, you have to, or who separates, you have to have buckets and everything else. Then you're actually coming, so the role of the state is that some kind of roof role, that we have laws, that we know what to do, is not the role of the state to be stubborn so then there's on, then the Constitutional Court says my people, you didn't do it right. But I'm gonna go back to this reuse and recycling a little bit more. Therefore, there is no more waste in the production process, that is, no more garbage. That waste should be for something else. Likewise, we have that provision. 16 that talks about reuse centers. It's something to insist on, it's something that, whenever one niche closes, the other nothing opens. For the end I will speak and say something about the earthquake that took place in the area of the city of Zagreb, i.e. Banije, hair line, Banovina. There's one project, and I'll talk about it all the time from this pay phone, maybe somebody gets their ears. So, Ursula von der Leyen said at one point that one of the, that is, had a big speech, one of the topics that can be.../incomprehensible/... economy, in this century is the new Bauhaus. So, Bauhaus who was one idea with, where he designed furniture, and to be and to make all these objects available to everyone. So he was connected to construction, construction, method of use, and everything else. She said the time has come to encourage the economy of a new Bauhas and there will be some 5.6 countries that can enter the pilot project. I think it is a pilot project that is ideal for Croatia. For what reason? You in the area of Bania or Banovina will have to crash, I will not be Dr. The sleeve and the sleeve say 500, 600, 700 buildings, but you're going to have to tear down a certain amount of buildings because you won't be able to do anything else with them. You will get construction material, this building material can be recycled by creating prefabricates that you can use further to build. Ideal for the area of Bania and Banovina if there are even more people there, because they've all given up on it, to make such one, such one, one drive, such an economy. First of all, people are going to work, second of all, because now nobody knows what to do with this building material, you're not going to burn any holes because you don't know what to do with it, so people are going to do and they're going to be able to build houses out of certain prefabricates. It seems to me, it's a matter of waste. So, you have construction waste that you get for recycling, you get a new value, you hire people and you make a move. I've said it from this pay phone, I've said it several times to some ministers of course, and I don't know what to do anymore. My men, know where we are, which we are and do something. It's a theme if you want to be smart about junk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57206	We will now hear two MPs from the SDP Club, respected colleague Udovic is the first, after which, colleague Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57207	President-in-Office HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. Here I have to refer to my speech here in the assembly in the first reading of the Waste Management Act, and then I said it was non-transparent, non-democratic, but we are free to say a legally non-compliant bill. And that's how it's actually saying the fact that I'm pointing to the same in response to the Commissioner for Information also got confirmation of my thinking. Namely, in his answer, he states among other things. The E-Consultation Portal found that the consultation carried out did not respond to the comment and response analysis of the same in the materials submitted to the parliamentary representatives. Here's one piece of information that can worry us a little bit. Furthermore, it confirms and points to the fact that insight into the e-consultation system has shown that according to the options of filtering the response to comments in all published reports visible to all users for those so far it is "acceptable", "partly accepted", "received knowledge" and "received not", can filter and possibly answer "there is no answer". Well, we must point out this in particular, and we must note, as the Commissioner himself said, this option is not in line with the normative framework for public consultation, which clearly states how the report is published with the answers to the comments and opinions received, and with reasons for not accepting those comments which could not be accepted. The ‘no response’ option is not an answer within the meaning of the Law on the right to access information, so the report contained in this text should not be published at all on the e-consultation portal. The question is, who's responsible for this? Proposer i.e. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the Government's Office for Legislative Affairs or the President of HS who should worry about the law-making process? Here we are here today in the assembly to discuss the bill that entered the procedure without respecting the legislation. There is even a sense of then discussing and writing amendments because we don't really know if we're discussing a legal proposal. And as the minister told me last time in his replica that everything I'm saying about the application of the law on access to information I'm saying wrong, I can now say freely that what he and the ministry are working on is completely wrong. This is what the epilogue of this law will actually be, because I believe it will be voted on Thursday, but although it has been repeated many times in the debate as to what kind of failures the law is. Here I have to look back at the entire system that this government continues to base on regional centres or waste management centres. Will the government achieve the goal that you have reduced in this law compared to what was set in the previous law? Well, I don't really see it. I don't see that these centres are not effective, they're very expensive, and how expensive they will see citizens when they actually get new bills, especially those citizens living in environments where such centres have not yet been established because they can expect to collect accounts for more than 100%. We in the Primorje-goran County can expect a rise in that final price soon, meaning that price that citizens will pay, certainly by about 30 to 40%, all others can expect an uptick increase. And so, in fact, the cunning ministry has now included in this bill the possibility that local self-government could be the one to subsidise the price. So we're putting everything down to local self-government again, and it's the ministry that makes it legal. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57208	He'll continue his colleague, Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57209	Thank you, Honorable President of the Assembly, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about waste management and what we want to do many times when it's looked at by someone who's not familiar with what's involved in waste management and what's needed to work out, you'd think we were really discussing some new formulas for nuclear physics. We do a lot of things and put a lot of things on this side or the other side. All in all, it turns out that to figure out how to sort out waste, that you need a special school, and to figure out where to go with that waste and how to process it, the question is whether you would find enough educated people in the Republic to make it grow for those who will pay everything at the end of the day, which is our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. This Law, apart from harmonising with European directives where much is prescribed, does not answer what will happen to prices, what will happen to technologies and what awaits us in the next 10, 20, 30 years with waste management in the Republic of Croatia. We have very many examples in the EU, more successful than we do, who know what to do with waste that has a clearly developed system, as we have examples in the EU, and in our closer environment, where unfortunately we are not looking at public interest, protection of citizens, protection of the economy, protection of the environment, but rather care about how to protect someone's private interests, from businessmen who have infiltrated garbage operations, we have an example in the city of Rome, where we have an absolutely crowded city with waste today, and therefore I am sorry not to talk again about what these technologies are in our centres. We have an example of Mariscina and Kastion where we get a lot of shouting that's not good. We have in Koprivnica and Križevci County preparations for the Regional Waste Management Centre Piškornica, where the tender is under way, but it is not yet fully responsible for what technology it is and what it will carry to our citizens, especially those who live in the environment, and the last question we have no answer at all is what price the citizens will pay, how much it will collect because they come into possession of the faasisibility study and see what price is promised there is the Malta no secret operation. And then we ask ourselves why citizens don't believe in waste management in this way, why there are so many calls, why it eventually appears in some cities of the Republic of Croatia and civil revolt. Breaking responsibility for the future implementation of the Waste Management Act through which we have gone, only under a) on the burden of citizens and only under b) again on units of local self-government through that mantra unit of local self-government can subsidise, looks like nothing but washing hands over something that someone in the beginning doubts will ultimately fail and will not bring back those benefits that we promised to the citizens we eventually promised both the EU and when we entered it, but also when we accepted some of its attitudes towards waste management. And it's really unclear when this political switch is going to be made to finally bring about how we want to introduce the secondary raw materials stock exchange, in which way we want to relax the waste in the recovery, and not that today we still have a situation to turn out for the mass of those categories that our citizens sort and our utility companies collect, so it turns out it's cheaper to drive all over again like mixed municipal waste because when you pay for everything you have to pay to take care of it, you're in absolute minus. As it is to bring clarity to the citizens and to encourage what they can get and what they can expect if they stick to everything that the classification of waste requires of them, which are benefits for them, how much cheaper they will possibly pay their bills, and how they will be rewarded. We don't have a system, no punishments, no rewards, but what's most painful, which we still obviously haven't made a decision with ourselves, whether we want to be among the more developed European countries when we talk about waste management or we want to remain a country that will have intervention solutions, but an intervention solution that usually ultimately draws on someone's private interest in certain lobbys that unfortunately, we still have in the Republic today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57210	The 4th debate will be a debate between the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57211	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the Waste Management Act surprised me a little at first because we had a gentleman who was very much advocating for reform, i.e. A different way of management of waste, but failed to offer a solution, then he left, as he normally offers his reforms which then end with criminal charges, and then we had a debate with a fellow SDP who co-owners a waste management centre and says, "The government is guilty of collecting the service there." So we have a logic that should then be translated into a debate about this law. I don't understand that logic because simply what you're saying here is not what you're saying, and now we have to go back to some past, to remind those who have also implemented the waste management policies, such as the SDP that built the first waste management centre, and that's the Marišćina in which the colleague, one of the co-owners as head of the Viskovo municipality and then determine the rules, and then they say there will be more expensive for all citizens, and for that is the government, and now we should discuss it here. That's not true. So, what does this proposal of the Waste Management Act offer? Obviously, we'll all look at it in different ways, as the parts of the Republic of Croatia look at it in different ways. From Dalmatia to the continental part, Slavonia, the island, Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, the City of Zagreb, each has its own way of managing waste. It's an obligation for all of us to create waste management centers. That was said in 2006, it wasn't said last year or five years ago. So in 2006, and that concept survived, he hasn't changed. There have been attempts like these mini reforms by Mr. Grmoya who have been two times six months in government so they have to be kicked out of these.../incomprehensible/... because they offered something that had no end. So they were trying to say that every environment for themselves is the one that produces and ends up with that waste at the end and it's all settled in that small environment, and it couldn't have been. And today we have a story, made a little more recycling yards, a little more sorters and we solved the problem. There's always that MCO or what we call mixed municipal waste that stays, what do we do with it? Are we going to do it the simplest way in the first hill and empty it out so it costs zero, as it's been done for decades in the Republic of Croatia, so it's the task of resuscitating or creating some kind of policy. The system that's been created here for 15 years that we've determined isn't quite the most successful, but that there is, and that we have to take care of it somewhere and turn it into something to eventually be some kind of product that can be sold somewhere or at least borrow it or give it to someone to finally say take care of it? It's the same with all other plastic, paper, glass, metal, battery, rubber, etc., etc. And where are we now? We have Directives from 2018 and 2019. We also need to coordinate in the plastic product section, in the packaging and packaging waste, waste dumps, waste vehicles, batteries, batteries, batteries, battery waste batteries, waste electrical and electronic equipment means we have certain obligations and we do so through this law and we set the highest possible targets in ten years to 2025. 55%, 2030. 60%, 2035. 65% recycling. Is that ambitious? I think that's enough. They say from associations that it is not enough even though this is above all averages, I think even the EU. So we're more ambitious, but it's not enough because they say it's not good enough. We're starting what I said in the green policy policy that concerns parts, let's ban what's clearly bothering us and polluting the environment, means plastic products for single use from sticks, straws, cutlery, food supplies, etc., plastic bags we said from 15 to 50 micrometers, let's ban it with 1.1.2022. We say again it's not ambitious enough, we should ban all plastic products. Is that possible just like that? We need to think about it. Now that we're moving into it, of course, that someone felt bad because HDZ went into that space together with its coalition partners in... green policies and here we are now at... now nothing's good because we're going but because we're not ambitious enough. Now that ambition needs to be assessed. And when we try to build up the whole system from the creation and generation of waste from the home threshold to the disposal that should have the finals at the center of waste management, or in the repairers who, as secondary raw materials, turn it back into certain products, we say we create a system and predict tools, objects, predict co-financing, predict and provide funds, we empower the fund to care, we give a framework in which you as local self-government your waste management policy. And what's good? At the beginning of the term of office of every local leader, you can't tell me you came to me in the third year and in the second year of office I didn't do anything. At the beginning of the term of office there are all, many already with many experiences, excellent experiences that are even better than what we have as some passing time, even at European level. And we say, now we wouldn't do that, we'd do something else. But what's different, no one's offered. Come here and tell me what else it is. They're not waste management centers to see what else it is. That's not the word I'm up for in the circulatory economy, the circular economy, and what have you done with it? Nothing. Tell me what the solution is because we in the county of Istria, in Primorje-goranska tried this system, it's not perfect, he has problems, but he generated events in the entire areas of the county. There's a lot of dumps closed down, not all of them, what about that rehabilitated closed dump? How do we handle waste on Rab Island if we shut down the waste management center? I'm asking that Grmoya tell me or someone from the SDP tells me what we're going to do. Shall we reopen the new dump? It's a solution if it's a solution so we'll do what we've been doing for decades or it's another solution that you have that we don't know. Now, that's what I'd like to hear in this debate because it's no problem to say someone's guilty, mostly government. Here, everything's on local self-government. An article was adopted that clearly gives everyone the price of determining what price they will have in their space. There are opportunities for reductions for those he thinks should be rewarded, there are criteria that allow him to reduce from the economy to individual members of the household, choose to invent them and put them in his price list. The representative body shall discuss the price list i.e. on the criteria only, and the Executive Body, the mayor brings a price list which must be held in public debate, cannot bring it before the public debate i.e. 30 days of counseling. So it all worked out that you as a leader are starting to manage your own space. You control the waste, and it's all up to you and the representative body. The government gave you a framework, if you're going to call for inaction with the government that she ordered you to collect the price, it's going to be bad for you not to write anywhere here. What did the government do? To cut your costs now for the recovery of these other recyclers, plastics, paper, metal, we'll co-finance from the fund contract amounts. Please place this in your total cost of waste management. You as local self-governments if you want to raise the price you can transfer that part to yourself as a leader and I will tell my million kunas instead of in that road to make my households pay less if it's a need to happen, that's what we have to say, it's not the government that's local self-government and HDZ and SDP and any other option. And every call for the government now that we've just insisted that the government put us down that we decide on the sustainability of our systems, when this law allows it, we say now we're not going to do it now. Now there's a difference between those who will and know and can apply and they want that when we entered that decade of green policies in which we'll take great care of the environment, but also primarily about waste management and that it's no longer a free category, like it's never been before, but we either seemed or made it seem that, and it was never, it was just different relationships and it was less paid because it was obviously the easiest thing to take care of, and that's what I said, first hill, so we're gonna throw that truck in that valley, so it's gonna be someone after 10 years. And I'm trying to get rid of it. It ceases to be a policy of environmental protection. I'm glad there's not a kilo of waste left on my island and it's going to cost something. But there are elements, there are tools in the hands of local self-government leaders to help with this law, with the help of government agencies, and that is the fund and the ministries generate a waste management policy in their space that will be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57212	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's the House of Homeland and Honored colleague Skoro's Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57213	Thank you very much, esteemed president and respected representatives of the ministry. Given the cosmetic changes compared to the first reading when we took our view that the waste management system in Croatia is at the beginning of the EU because too much is being delayed, because it is being collected and recycled, because most biodegradable waste is still being delayed instead of separately collected, because the system of separate collection of problematic and hazardous waste is weak and effective. We can't support a bill like this. We have already noted that the entire waste management sector is actually managed by a clientele who spends huge money on our behalf, of course there is no responsibility, nor is anyone asking for it, and in this sense this law does not bring any change. It will still be none of the rapid and efficient construction of national infrastructures of sorting plants, composts and reuse centres without which it is not possible to meet the targeted recycling rates. The focus of all activities will be on the waste treatment infrastructure, and this law keeps the competent ministry alive regional garbage centres that are expensive and harmful failures, while ignoring the reduction and reuse of waste. The waste management centres for which construction has been held for 10 years are prepared by many counties that are otherwise in this sector without experience, competences and responsibilities, should be the holders of this law even though the county has no experience because they are not engaged, these are cities and municipalities, they have no knowledge or competences because such personnel of the county never should or should have. I have already said speaking for the first time on this subject, and also warns some associations that have filed applications against regional garbage centres and other disputed parts of the legislation before Croatian and European judicial authorities that two already built such a centre of the river Mariščina and the pulse Kastijun, although we have paid over 300 million kuna for each of them, their contribution to recycling simply does not exist. The emissions of particles and unpleasant smells are almost daily, and one of them has already lost so-called court twice. environmental license. However, clientelistic forces seem to have not been touched, so a series of following centres of similar features are planned and figures of half a billion kuna are announced or slightly less per center. There's an opportunity for extracurricular work and guessing. In each of the counties that plan to build such a centre, it is the project that will be the largest investment ever run and controlled by the county authorities. That is why they are so keenly defended despite all the arguments of an independent profession and despite the devastating experience with the already mentioned Mariščina and Kaštjun. It does not matter that a healthy alternative is up to 10 times cheaper, as well as that these investments do not allow for the achievement of recycling goals, but rather, there is a major threat and damage to the environment and citizens. As regards concerns for citizens and the prices that they will ultimately pay, it should be noted that the ministry has also incorporated into the law disputed provisions establishing the price of public service provided for in the Waste Regulation recently challenged by the Constitutional Court. Another problem is that all EU members should have transposed the principles set out in the Directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment in their legislation, Art. The 17th directive, which came into force in July 2019, clearly states that everything was to be completed by 3 July of this year, and today it is 13 July and we are usually late and here we are still discussing the final proposal, and the European Commission can punish us for that, probably not, but it can. Third, in this law, the biggest problem was detected in plastic and plastic products, or plastic bags, and reached for the ban. However, when the ban enters into force, traders can spend their supplies, but one thing is certain, all the costs that will be incurred will go to consumers, so citizens, because it is already, for example, collected milk in a plastic bottle for 50 lips, many irrelevant, but to those who have low incomes and spend milk every day, very important. As far as the famous plastic bags are concerned, about 30 companies that employ 800 people are producing them in Croatia, and the consequences of reducing the use of such bags in the EU have, of course, already felt. HGK, HUP and HOK are against the complete ban on bags in Croatia, and have proposed a special HGK sign to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development led by Mr Tomislav Ćorić. This sign would mark the bags that have part of the recycled content, and this is a good model for both the environment and the economy, but of course it is not accepted. Therefore, a delay in the application of this law has been requested. The ban on bags under their proposal would only take effect in 2024. In addition to helping the companies that produce them with NPOO money because some of these companies bought machines for producing these EU money bags approved by the competent Croatian ministries and agencies 2018. In the whole story of plastic bags, it is crucial that the European directive does not seek a ban on bags but rather a reduction in their use, which is the goal Croatia has already achieved, so we can rightly ask ourselves why we are drinking again the branch on which we are sitting because we have reduced the use of plastic bags by 60% by just charging them. Slovenians who are much more eco-aware allow the production of 80 % of recycled bags. Croatian producers suggested it to our ministry, but it didn't go the same way. The plastic manufacturers are 2019. They were at a meeting at the ministry, and they asked if there were any bans. They were told that there was no ban or intention to abolish, but in February 2020, they heard that these bags produced by them, of which those 800 people live, are still banned. What would be an alternative to plastic bags? Paper, but paper may not be an alternative because it cuts down the forest, whitening the vast amount of water and chlorine used in the production of paper is far more dangerous in the environment. Biodegradable bags are also not an alternative because there are not enough raw materials for them, they are made from potatoes and corn. It's important to say that bio-returns don't break down on their own, but they need to be composted because when you throw them in the trash, they're the same thing as plastic bags. A plastic manufacturer from Bjelovar said something like this, part of our range will be banned. On that range is a part of the people and part of the machines, they go off-duty. These people are going to have to go to the stock market because I don't have another job for them, and the company is going to stay capitalised because I'm going to pay them back. Part of the income disappears and the missing liquidity disappears. So, without advocating the survival of plastic bags, I'd like to say that a number of studies have shown that they are yet acceptable packaging because if the oil manufacturer does not convert polyethylene to granulate, he will burn it, and when he burns it, where does it go, into the atmosphere, and what happens? We're polluting again. Therefore, it is clear that the gradual putting out of use of critical types of plastic products is part of the solution, but the establishment of a circular management system of plastics that would involve entrepreneurs and craftsmen and from the brand “plasticists” with the education of citizens, that, for example, you can use a plastic bag multiple times, no one says you can’t, the question of your goodwill, also gave some results, there we can include some of the associations from which the platform was created! So that they may also withdraw part of the money and call people, make them aware of how a plastic bag is used several times. Finally, when restrictions were introduced on one part of the product, the activation of much greater economic potential in the construction of the circular management of our society’s plastics could also be considered. The potential is huge because more than 300 thousand tons of plastic is being thrown annually, instead of building a strong network for separate collection, processing and recycling. For the time being, the fronts are the only HS whose toilets, at least the men, after the last debate, instead of one waste basket equipped with 5 of them and the congratulatory ones responsible for this move, so in the men's room in the Assembly, you can especially put down plastics, especially glass, especially biowaste, especially aluminium, and this 5 goes municipal waste, the rest, and perhaps only to separate paper from wood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57214	We are now going to the last debate of the club, it is the esteemed Marin Lerotić on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57215	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another law that we are harmonising with European regulations, which we consider to have been passed quickly and with a series of shortcomings, as they have seen, not only the MPs in the Parliament, but also the general public. The passing of this Law does not go hand in hand to citizens, tenants, entrepreneurs, and that championship makes me think of those small businessmen. I consider it a discriminatory provision by which the user can be classified both in the household category and in the category by which he is not a household, and when you are a user he creates in a category by which he is not a household, he pays a higher fee. That's the championship I'm thinking of the little ones. It is about people who use the same house or space for example crafts or some service activity and housing, and it can be about different relationships when the owner rents space in his household to someone else for crafts, and he lives in the same address. Does the legislator really consider it right and just that the price is minimal and public service unique for all users of the economy, i.e. for users of categories of non-household users. The minimum public service requires the minimum resources needed for the operation of the system, which includes all fixed costs, such as the purchase of vehicles, equipment, the costs of dumps, the costs of employees, the service of the vehicle, but also those imposed by the Law, such as the construction of recycling yards and these fixed costs account for approximately 50 to 70% of the total costs. By formulating the law, the legislator significantly increases accounts for smaller entrepreneurs and craftsmen, while reducing the large ones because, for example, shopping centres will pay the same minimum service, such as The carpenters, car-camp capacity 10 thousand people will pay the same price as the car-camp owned by the OPG with, say, the capacity of 12 people. Hotel capacity 100 rooms will pay the same price as small private tenants, although the shopping centre has a higher cost impact on the business of utility companies in the cost of minimum public service, e.g. The carpenter. The legislator insists that large business entities, tourist houses, shopping centres increase their profits and that their actual costs are borne by citizens and small entrepreneurs. The only correct legal solution would be for users to participate in fixed costs relative to the ratio in which they burden the system, i.e. the relatively real cost they're creating. In accordance with the bill, the legislator and the cost knowingly shifts to smaller entrepreneurs, although they do not, I repeat, create them. We also believe that it is necessary to define more clearly what waste is considered to be packaging, as more different types of waste are collected in the recycling yard, and which should be financed by the Law by the Fund, stressing that the Fund is financing waste costs, which consist predominantly of waste packaging, including all other types of waste that are being accepted in the recycling yard. What should be commended is the involvement of many representatives, various associations and organisations that have recognised the importance of this topic and that it is accepted that public utility companies collect all waste, both mixed and recycling, especially in the category “not a household” because we would otherwise be expected to have a heavy chaos. However, this law does not offer solutions, it is not ambitious and has no vision and I fear that it will further lead us to problems and questions of implementation, rather than to be all the opposite. Therefore, I believe that we have another period of pollution, an increase in the bill for citizens and health damage. The objectives of reducing consumption should be better set, the responsibility of the manufacturer should be better regulated as well as the ability to create green jobs in the context of the development of single-use systems. I'm afraid we took two steps back instead of one forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57216	We've come to the end of the debate in clubs, we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Annka's respected colleague, Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57217	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This debate, when it comes to waste, can really run with a few levels, and now in this individual, I would kind of look back at the basic one when we return home to our apartment between our four walls or what our citizens expect from this law. What do our citizens expect? They expect waste to be paid according to the amount they produce, they expect that when they put waste in the bin, regardless of whether it is family houses, more residential to be regularly driven away and they expect that relatively close to their property they live in or work in, they have places where they can put away the waste that is subject to reuse. So that part of the job can be done by themselves, but part of the job is expected to be done by the state or unit of local self-government. Let's focus on three points, the first point that we pay the waste by the amount that is produced, here in price we know that we have a fixed and variable part. We know that this fixed part is defined by a new law on a certain percentage, and the variable part is then left to the units of local self-government to determine the relationship it is. In the fixed part is the supply of, of course, bins in which waste will be deposited and, of course, transportation. And it's not the same everywhere, and it can't be the same everywhere, and it's not the same in big cities and some other things that I'm not talking about, say, a lot of local self-government units located by the sea, which have these peaks, which during the tourist season have a much greater need and a lot more disposal and disposal and everything else than during the year, they have to work and everything has to work during the tourist season, because we recognize it. Is it possible to make that particular balance? It's possible. Is this what we expect from this law beyond the units of local self-government? We're expecting it. To drive the waste regularly, I don't have to tell you that the image of certain cities was what it looks like when the waste isn't being transported. I'm always kind of giving a comparison to the town I know best where I live, it's the City of Zagreb where when you come to this assembly you can see how many buckets, you can see how much we have along the trash cans, it's all a picture of us, but a picture of even the system to drive that waste regularly. In Zagreb the whole time there was a story about how and what to do and I deeply hope that over time we will stop being this cantograd that we were than we will turn into something else. This theme of green islands, they can be if in Ljubljana which is not so far from us, it can work I can never wonder why it can't work with us. They can be green islands, everything can be buried, nothing has to be out there, but a picture if on those green islands if by the one container that goes in there's still junk on the side is a picture of us. But if those tanks are packed and you can't put anything in them anymore, then it's a photo of a local self-government unit that doesn't do its job. So, we really need to ask ourselves a key question what can we do for our citizens? So our citizens are interested in that bill that we get, so they're interested in getting their junk out of the way regularly, and they're interested in not getting these bills bigger. Now, is it possible to balance it between one and the other, that's the million-dollar question. I'm never sure if it's possible to establish everything together, but that's where we should actually strive. When I said in my mind some cities, we had examples of Rome where there was no waste where the city was covered with waste, the announcement was also an example of one of our cities, fortunately, that's not what I'm talking about, no matter what the announcement. So, waste management is a serious job, not just the day - to - day work to drive away regularly, to take care of it, but to take care of waste and beyond. There's another story we haven't touched at all, and that's the story that we're all rooting for on the one hand, and we think it's supposed to be cars on batteries, electric cars, and the other is what we're going to do with batteries, what we're going to do with those cars. But it's for another debate. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57218	Thank you, too. The replica of Mrs. Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. In view of the restoration that takes place in the City of Zagreb and also in Sisak-Moslavina County, I am interested in you being the Minister of Construction what with the construction waste? It seems to me that in the City of Zagreb as if Minister Horvat were in some kind of deal with Minister Ćorić, so this reconstruction is going so slowly that this construction waste would not be in the centre of Zagreb on piles. Where are we going with that construction waste? Obviously there is no idea in the City of Zagreb where with so much construction waste. I see already in Sisak-Moslavina County in the woods and along the roads construction waste was delayed just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57220	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57221	Thank you very much for your question. So, I was working on a project to rebuild Cvelferia behind the flood. We then crashed 480 family houses that were mainly made of plugs, so not from classic bricks but from the ground, and they came when that flood was not there to save you, and we then used it as a buffer to rebuild roads, so to build up certain and forest roads and the rest was used and we knew exactly why we used it and it was well used. The theme of construction waste, I referred to it when I had a discussion on behalf of the club about construction waste. So, the reconstruction that is now in Zagreb is not a systematic reconstruction led by the state, it is individual people. I live in such a house that had damage behind the earthquake and we had a vehicle in the area of other counties where there was no place in the city of Zagreb. This is a topic that must be addressed by the Mayor of the City of Zagreb together with the Minister of Resort.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57222	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57223	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I want to continue there where I stopped while I was speaking on behalf of the club and look back at some more important moments in this law. First of all, it means that the obligation of the recycling yard is no longer for the municipalities of up to 3000 inhabitants and for more than 3000 when they can have a mobile recycling yard, but then every 25,000 more have to build one fixed recycling yard and I think it helped a lot of small local self-government not to invest, especially if they are in a smaller space, on some scale apart from each other not to spend that money to create such spaces, and it will not be used since there are many and too many. So here's what I say, and that's good. As for the minimum public service and the pricer itself, it is clearly prescribed and not much different than it has been so far, but clearly defined as being a household and not a household. The price-making procedures, so there's nothing on the government or the minister, there's no consent. What's also good is that you've abolished waste management plans for local self-government. They are now and so more or less all the same. So the new mayors other than the mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb should not bring waste management plans. For that concern they took on more levels, these are regional self-government and county. How will you determine the price list? Now there's every single person's leader, first and foremost the director of the municipal society. The price list shall be determined by the director of the municipal society. It must be made in accordance with the criteria that are written here. They're quite similar to what we've been through, but they're giving a lot more opportunities not to have an unwarranted burden on the household, and once again, the government is guilty because it's the price list. the prices of waste management in our area have become higher. That's not what this law offers. Anyone who calls the law and says that's why they're gonna say it wrong. Why? Because once again, the director of the municipal society has to look at the total costs in its own space of waste management at the annual level. That's the cost he has to settle through a new price list. How's he gonna handle it? He writes here with the consent of the executive body, which is the mayor and mayor of the city, but after having conducted a public debate. That's the most important message. So, citizens will be and must be familiar with what's going to happen in their space. All those who argue it's someone else's fault again say it's wrong because it doesn't say it here. And clear powers have been given to each of the local self-government leaders what to do. This is the process in the following years which we will see both in the City of Zagreb and in the City of Zagreb, and in the city of Sinj and in other cities, let us see these policies as who manages the waste in their space. What's worrying is that today we're still talking about getting a bucket after 10 competitions. So there are people who aren't interested, local self-government leaders who aren't interested in this story, where you've got 85% of the grants to get your own people's cans, that you've got cars, utility vehicles that empty and take those cans, that you've now been able to co-finance funds for what hasn't been charged so far won't be charged any further, and these are all kinds of waste other than mixed municipal waste, meaning plastics and paper and glass, metal, etc., everything you've been driving is in that let's tell the other part of the price list to the minimum public service. The variable part depends on you and writes here clearly either you will per kilogram or you will per volume. How much will it cost your 120-litre bucket determines the director of the municipal society with the agreement of the mayor and mayor if it has the care and transportation of waste to the Waste Management Centre. We know what the cost of recirculation, plastics, paper, etc. is, these are the same costs that go into the total cost of waste disposal. What's the state offering? Contracts with the Fund for each category in co-financing of costs. Is that a good thing? I think so. These are final aids to local self-government by the fund. Why would he be against this law? Then I'm against every leader who's ever made that expense, and there's no one to pay him except for local self-government or community society itself. So we give a lot of opportunities, but there's life down there, there's waste taking care of it, and down there's going to be activities who know better will know who doesn't know they'll have to work hard under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57224	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Danica Baričević is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57225	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, dear fellow Boric, you have made it very clear in your presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, and now also in the individual debate of this bill, and it is evident that the procedures are being simplified and the framework of the law, will contribute and prevent waste, as you have also highlighted the co-operation between the ministry and the fund, which is regulated by this legislative proposal visible from the competitions which were already under way that the fund, since we are being co-financed, co-financed and the transport of waste from the island, the supply of container and other municipal equipment and the rehabilitation of wild dumps, and these are all the significant funds that some JLS do not have, and they will certainly help...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57226	Thank you. You could have finished your sentence. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57227	Thank you very much. My colleague Baričević, so here I remember amending the Island Act when we just, when we had a session on the island of Hvar, we said that we would introduce and co-finance the waste transport fund from the island to the mainland. And these are huge costs and we introduced it through a public call and a public tender as a fund and it works and that municipal companies that drive waste off land have the right to co-finance, of course it's not 100%, but it makes it easier and these costs are then less for a municipal society, and everything else that makes it easier here means now that local self-government does not exceed the possible cost, the new cost of waste management of households and citizens. And there are elements. Who's gonna use them and how? If you're a very simple chief and you don't want to worry too much, you'll transfer it to the citizens. If you want to worry, you'll find a way through this law and through your price list not to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57228	- Mrs. Crescent. Sanja Udovic is a second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57229	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, here I will look back on your presentation later in an individual debate, and now I would say a replica about your debate where these provisions mean some descending on local self-government leaders where you say that local self-government is responsible to make all the necessary infrastructure in order for the waste management system to function and where you highlighted the merits of both ministries and funds. However, I would like to point out that the fund carried out the procurement procedure or the award of contracts for certain containers lasted for a full period of 3 years. Why was it the fund that was going to run the public procurement? Apparently because he doesn't trust local self-government leaders. There's a lot of those who wanted to do it a lot, I think a lot before or as soon as conditions came out, and also the purchase of sorters and the purchase of composts. So why did the ministry insist on the central procurement process?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57230	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57231	Thank you very much, colleague Udovic. I don't agree with you because you couldn't get the cans without the fund if you wanted, but everyone was waiting for the state's help, and they wanted someone else to pay it with that commitment you still have as a local self-government. Whoever didn't pick up didn't get it. It's clear to everyone, and everyone had a chance. And that's why we're saying that this law concerns some parts of the Republic of Croatia differently. We know what we have in some areas of the Republic of Croatia. And I single us out in the Primorje-Goran County and in the Istrian County and some other counties that are the whole system that was based on the laws more or less brought to an end and we have the cost unlike others that didn't do it, which doesn't mean that they won't because now they come those provisions of penalties here, there are penalties here, too, for those who won't, don't want to, etc. And they think it's different, that it's someone else's problem, not those who live downstairs and who are legally obliged to take care of municipal waste, as they are obliged to add. give the household water or take care of the storm drain or drain. It's their duty. So I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57232	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, you were saying that there is actually a lack of political will among certain local self-government leaders to secure financial and implementing capacities in order to approach waste management responsibly. I would actually ask you here to help me find an answer to one question that really bothers me because if we know that 444 kilograms of waste is produced annually by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia as it is possible that no one can ask themselves why individual citizens or individual households never hand over waste because I suppose it is not about them that they are self-recovering this waste and that this responsibility is at a large level but that this waste is being taken care of in an inappropriate way, so who is responsible, who must follow such procedures and sanction them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57234	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57235	Thank you very much. What I can say from experience means that an orderly system recognizes those who don't give away waste. So if you have buckets, if you have vehicles, if you have chipped cans, if you have a system and price list and everything else in your account for the first six months or in a year you'll see who didn't hand over your junk. That's the kind of municipal society he's talking to, and there are penalties. They will give you 10 explanations as to why this waste is missing, and we know that it must be and that it has ended somewhere else and that that is what happens then those wild dumps that come back to the expense of local self-government and yet it is twice the cost of what is offered through the possibilities given by this law. That's why he's on local leaders, not because I have something, I have nothing against them and I've been... We have as many of them here as you want, as we want them to recognize what this law offers them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they recognize it very easily they'll put together both the price list and everything else they already know, they have experience of how much their system costs over the year, the costs haven't grown too much, but they'll grow if we have a mess all over the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57236	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57237	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, we all know that the biggest problem is actually unclassified waste, and that's the problem then it's overrun at the Waste Management Centre and we're kind of going round and round, we're constantly missing that primary waste selection that would reduce that share of unclassified waste. We have light examples not that we do not have them too Prelog and let's say the city of Osijek, the island of Krk etc. Not to mention, but we still have a problem that is also related to our main economic branch, which is tourism. So tourists, when they come to their good habits, are mostly left at home, and that's what all the research has shown that tourists don't behave the same way when it comes to sorting out waste at home and on vacation, and that's what research across the EU has shown you there are bright examples, but the vast majority doesn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57238	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57239	Thank you very much. I can accept that there is that, but there is, if there's no system means if there's a system in private homes that deal with renting, if you have five bins where you put the waste in, every tourist will ask you where they're going to put the individual. If you have only one bucket he can of course do nothing but put everything in that same bucket that's it, and then research can confirm that. And this again pulls back what I'm talking about, how many of us or how many local self-government leaders want to set up a system because it requires certain costs, and when it's established, we notice everything very quickly. That's what I'm saying from experience, five years ago and today what's happening on my island. So that's possible, and the primary selection happens on the doorstep. In the house, whoever wants to postpone will put, if he doesn't want to take ten steps he'll put it all in the same bucket and then go into mixed municipal waste, and then end up somewhere in the waste management center Or on some hill, and it's empty down there and it costs nothing. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57240	Thank you very much. And finally Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57241	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. The law also lays down jurisdiction over the issue of a waste management licence, means the Ministry for the Processing of Dangerous Waste and hazardous and non-hazardous waste for waste use procedures, and the County Authority issues permits for non-hazardous waste and all other procedures for the use and disposal of waste, and states that it is prescribed that the authorisation for waste management is issued within a period of ten years. So I'm interested in this because I've been coming from Varazdin County where we've been having a problem for 30 years and I'm asking you if that deadline is enough or should it be reduced or increased? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57242	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57243	Thank you very much, colleague. I think it's ten years enough, ten years is a pretty long period and it's almost three seats from a local leader. If you want to solve the problem, you're going to have to deal with this problem and apply the laws on sublaws and solve the problem. If there is no waste management centre, it is regional and they have an obligation to solve it. I think there's a lot of time gone by and things are still going on, no matter what we think is going on, it's happening and we've got deadlines, but we've got fines and pens that are going to be paid by the state and all that someone has to say is put in the system. This law puts it in the system and gives the highest authority to local self-government because it is also the original authority of local self-government to take care of both water supply and disposal and waste management. Well, it can't be done by the Ministry or the Minister, anyone, but the City of Zagreb or someone else will show time, let's say they're in county status, which will happen with waste management in the next few years in this space. Is this helping them or not? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] I also mean great help to the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57244	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. We can say that avoiding waste production is the first choice we have in environmental protection, but everything we spend sooner or later turns into waste. Therefore, in waste management, waste prevention and reuse should be our priority. According to the available data I have from 2017. 46% of municipal waste in the EU is recycled and composted. Croatia unfortunately does so in a significantly smaller percentage. However, we must say that practices differ from state to state and that some countries still use in most cases the disposal of municipal waste to landfills. The wealthier countries of this tourism-related country produce more waste. Although municipal waste accounts for less than a tenth of 2.5 billion tonnes of waste produced in the EU each year, a complex problem is visible, primarily due to the composition of the waste source and the link to the consumption patterns. The EU has set very ambitious targets for the recycling of disposal, but it has placed dumps itself in order to boost the transition to a circular economy and a new action plan has also been adopted in this respect, seeking additional measures to achieve carbon neutral, ecologically sustainable, non-toxic and complete circular economy by 2050. including stricter recycling rules. Member States should increase high-quality recycling, remove waste disposal and reduce combustion to the minimum possible extent. In Croatia, there has been an increase in separate waste collection by 11% and a reduction in delays of 18% over the past four years. So we're still moving forward. But the effects of current climate and environmental consumption patterns are high, energy consumption is increasing, CO2 emissions are being increased and, in fact, the introduction of a circular economy principle would reduce environmental pressure, increase the security of supply of raw materials, competitiveness and innovation, strengthen economic growth, even some of the assessments that I came up with to be 0.5% of GDP and certainly create new jobs, consumers would have longer, more sustainable and more valuable products. I am saying all these arguments because it seems to me that we are still not fully aware of why it is so important to have a sustainable and circular management of waste, and this is what the data shows, we see that we are lagging behind in Croatia for the EU's waste reduction targets, mainly because of the poor technical and financial capacities of cities and municipalities for the collection and separation of waste and the promotion of recycling. Turning waste into resources is actually the essence of the circular economy, if we re-product and recycle, and if the waste of one sector becomes raw material of another sector, then we can get closer to a circular economy where waste is reduced to the least possible measure and resources are used efficiently and sustainablely. By improving waste management, we can reduce health and environmental problems, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and avoid negative effects at local level, such as disturbance of landscapes due to waste disposal and pollution of water and air. Croatia needs to achieve sustainable waste management, in this we are all complex, speed up recycling, limit the use of landfills and create incentives for changes in consumer behaviour, and this law will also help us. So the state gives us a legal framework, but we, of course, must also put forth efforts and urgently change our behavior. I have already mentioned, I will say once again, at the local level, situations where, due to the lack of awareness of individuals on the one hand, due to the inadequate response of the system on the other hand, some of our citizens, instead of collecting waste separately, to be taken care of by municipal companies in an inappropriate way, to burn plastics, to throw waste into the woods, local water streams, all of this has far-reaching consequences, and if we know that every resident produces 440 kilograms annually on average of waste, then I am always surprised that someone responsible is not wondering where this waste ended, if it is not committed to a competent municipal enterprise, so I appeal to a stronger activity of municipal directors and environmental inspection in these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57246	Thank you. Thank you. You have replicas. The first line has Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57247	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. You were saying that there are those who don't take care of the waste, that's what you're talking about. They act the way they behave. In other countries, we sometimes see the enthusiasm of our citizens who go to, I don't know, Switzerland or Austria or Germany and say, the best controller of whether someone is doing right or not is the first neighbor, of course, because they've acquired a commitment through time to do something right. It's not there yet, and it won't be safe for a long time, which doesn't mean that neither of us will, as we say, get over it. But what's important in this law. So in this, the preparation of this Law and the final proposal, both in first reading and in second reading, was attended by a group of precisely those who depend on the provisions of this Law, these are providers of waste management services and they say, this Law is great for us, good for us. And at the local level, we have all kinds of political options, all kinds, and now it's unclear for me, that they agree, those who depend directly on this law and their business, that they tell us this is good, and that their political exhibits at a higher level say, This Law is bad or even local leaders and this is not good and it does not contribute. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There's just a little bit of a problem here, too. [[Thank you very much.]] I don't understand why they... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57248	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57249	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, I think this issue should really be deprived of all ideological divisions, but we see that it is not so, that many who have won the green elections in a very short time change their coats and behave completely differently, their calculation of corruption actually shows that corruption is an additional pile, and green topics and waste management have fallen to another plan. I understand and support the provisions of laws that go in terms of more sustainable waste management and which also give, as the secretary of state said, and additional powers to the communal directors. What I appeal to is that these communal monks do not go out on the ground only on application, but on their own, which is in their job description, go around the burden, especially in the smaller local environments and see what is happening, in order to actually prevent these illegal phenomena from being created.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57250	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57251	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, colleague Petir, you are in the opening part of your, that is, exposure to you all the time, individual responsibility, individual responsibility towards the waste that actually creates and irresponsible behavior further with this waste. And there's a terrible lot of truth, but what I think I'd like is some experience of yours, the importance of education. So we, from the earliest age of life, raise children in kindergartens, but I think that the importance of education is all the time, maybe some shows that are or possibly some videos to show what we do with irresponsible behavior. Those pictures, once a year they're those green cleaners that are made in the woods, they're constantly done from the submarines, and what you're left to be confused, that someone is pulling out some kind of fridge or some kind of oven or some kind of car, you don't know at all, what effort someone's made to get that junk out of there, where they're getting it from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57252	Thank you. Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Mrak-Taritash. Yes, I am also surprised at the efforts that someone wants to make in an irregular way to take care of the waste, and he does not want to make twice as much effort as possible to take care of it in the way prescribed by the law. I agree with you that education is extremely important, but I would say that there is an important lifelong education, if we can say that because if we teach children in kindergartens and schools how they will approach waste management, separately collect it, and create less pressure on the environment, if it is not supported at all levels, by local self-government and also by the household or municipal companies themselves, then we have a problem. I remember years ago, it was, though, but as kids, we got together and started collecting paper separately. Our parents had to pay for the container to be brought in to collect that paper, then we had to pay for that container to drive away and finally That paper ended up on municipal waste, so it's not a good message. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57254	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57255	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, dear colleagues. Every law aims to solve certain problems, including the one about waste management. In addition to the law, you said education is also important. However, users are not interested in either the ministry or the fund or the local self-government, they are interested in what this Law adopts, whether they will pay more or less for waste management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57256	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You are right, fellow Simicevic, people are wondering if they will pay for the waste as much as they produce, and the system must provide them with it, not to pay for other people's waste or what someone forgot to take care of or take care of in an inadequate way. But in order to encourage our citizens to approach this problem with full awareness and consciousness, I really think we must invest more in information and education at all levels and establish a system that will be effective. This is the task of both local self-governments and utility companies who need to know the number of households, the number of users, and ultimately, have feedback on whether everyone then cooperates with this system as prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57258	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57259	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. My intention in this individual debate is to look back, not only on the consequences and the way we deal with this law is the problem of the waste, but also on the cause. So I think I agree with this, too, with everyone who spoke before me, that we do not deal with the cause, or our way of life, our structure of the economy that is the main cause of this huge amount of waste that we produce. In fact, I'm going to go back a little bit in history, and I started working in 1990 in a food-processing industry in beer production, and at that time 100% of the packaging was a return packaging. So, just 31 years ago, all the packaging was a reverse packaging. When we went to the store, we were wearing baskets or how we in Slavonia say checker, yes, and it was normal for us. Now we're saying we're gonna ban plastic bags and it's drama. I don't know. Maybe we should all ask ourselves a little bit how our lifestyle affects in principle, and these huge amounts of waste that we produce. There was this famous PET packaging somewhere in the mid-90s. First it was soda drinks, juices and water, etc., and where did this technology come from, from the West. Very quickly we learned that comotion. To put your hands in your pocket like that, get your bags there, whatever you need, you don't have to carry any bottles, and in that period, in those 30s, in that period of 31 years, what happened? The CO2 emissions were halved because our industry was simple, closed, here. The plant chimneys in Osijek last year, but the amount of waste has doubled and should not be too psychic and argue that waste management is crucial in the time ahead. We had some obligations and units of local self-government still had some things to solve in 2014, they haven't solved until today. Not all of it, but some of it is now being transferred to the region or county level, but again, when we look at how it is solved in Kastion or Mariscina, we can't be satisfied and we can't be optimistic. In the replica of my colleague, Boric, I also pointed little to our structure of the economy. The fact is that tourism as an economic citizen generates huge quantities of unclassified waste. Taking care of this waste brings with it a number of challenges, I have told some about where we come from Zagreb mixed municipal waste and biowaste in Donja Miholjac and we have a serious threat, not only about air quality but also about the quality of the soil, because it pollutes that digostat with microplastics, then comes to our orans and goes into our groundwaters. See what happens in Zagreb when we generally go to this primary waste selection. I am personally ashamed, truly ashamed that the capital of all Croats and the streets of the capital of all Croats look what they look like. Nogostips are piled up with buckets. Storages for different types of waste can be kept nowhere further than on footings. Zagreb is dirty and Zagreb stinks. That's a fact. Maybe the new administration will do something, I don't see anything moving from a dead end. The primary selection of waste is something that is necessary and we all have to learn about it easily. The fact that we don't have the capacity to process plastics that's separated doesn't exactly stand because you have a factory in Osijek that makes one-time plastics and imports plastics from Arab countries around the world because they don't have enough raw materials here in Croatia. The changes this law makes, I think we'll only feel in our accounts. Honestly, taking care of waste costs and those bills are definitely going to be bigger than they are now. In some ways, we are being transferred to consumers and household users and the irresponsibility of individual units of local self-government that have so far done nothing. That's the same fact, and I've said a little bit in the replica to the secretary of state, and I've looked back on that tax that the EU has introduced since this year on non-recyclable plastics, and I'm afraid it's going to be a significant item at RH level because we don't separate and we don't recycle enough plastics. Here, I was trying to get a clean picture of what our life looked like just 31 years ago, so it wasn't that long ago. Consumer habits can change, but we need to work on it and we need to work on it. If we just solve the consequences, but not the problem where they come from, we won't get far because the cause is the one we really need to focus on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57260	Thank you. You have several replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57261	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Madam Representative. I followed your line to Mr. Secretary of State, but we couldn't get the information, so I'm going to ask you one more time, we don't have the current projection of how much tax on non-recycling plastic will cost taxpayers. Can you, as an expert on finance, give a close assessment here for the Croatian public? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57263	Thank you very much for asking my colleague Dretar. When the budget was being budgeted then I saw that at the position of the Ministry of Finance there was a certain amount, I think there is something about 800 euros per tonne that is not a small item in Croatia, and this year it is still in some preliminary phase, but I am afraid that from next year, it could come to life more significantly, and then Croatia, or the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, could go a long way if we don't increase that share of the plastic that is being collected and recycled. I didn't get the answer you saw, too, but I think we'll get it when we adopt the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57264	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57265	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. Here we are witnessing and we are aware that waste management is one of the problems in the Republic of Croatia and I hope by passing this law that we will solve at least those initial problems, but I would now question the responsibility of our Croats here. The Croats, when they go into the world and wherever they behave in accordance with the laws, adhere to the order, but we are the worst in their homeland. And can the law solve the problem of our consciousness? I don't think he can and we have to work on consciousness. If education is not enough, then I think it might be good and repression in these situations because it is the only way we can keep Croatia healthy, clean and beautiful as our descendants need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57266	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57267	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. I fully agree with you and on committees I have already asked several times what is with, we are constantly talking about these some affirmative measures, we are going to educate, but it is simply not enough and a certain penalisation should be for local self-government units, to get out of it, and then, frankly, I am doing some research among students every year about green consumers and how aware they are and the fact is that they know and affirmatively express themselves when asked, but obviously we should do a little work on this part too because it is not enough just to educate them. That's where we've already done a lot, and now there's all kinds of promotional messages going on and it's been going on since kindergarten, but I think we should start with, not very big, but a little bit repressive. The measures, yes, I agree. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57268	Mrs. Petyr's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the high expectations that a more progressive way of waste management would be introduced in the City of Zagreb, unfortunately that did not happen. This shows that it is still the system that must have the first and the main word, it will not be enough law itself if the leaders of the local self-government or any other system do not change access to waste management, but it is also important that one approach that we as citizens as individuals have. According to some data, the ministry has invested more than 53 million kunas in educational campaigns, campaigns that it wants to change the way it behaves. Now you've said yourself that it's obviously not enough to introduce some other mechanisms, and you've supported that for example when tourists come to shore, so if you can say more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57270	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57271	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. Well, here's my colleague, Boric, who disagrees with me, but the research is being denied really, and it was done in Sweden, Germany means in countries where tourists come from, I mean Germany, but also in countries that have a lot of developed consciousness when it comes to primary waste selection, just people and their good habits leave at home and here on vacation a little bit more relaxed, but then we're having problems, and that's the fact. And as for our capital, here I am walking a lot, I like to walk, and then I often walk, and now especially when the temperature is this high, it really looks terrible. It is to me that I do not know in Osijek which has a far higher percentage of primary waste selection you will not find on the legposts of the can, the waste disposal tanks in Zagreb is the most normal and it is really unacceptable for me. I hope there is still a short time, but I think if something is not done about this, Zagreb can be renamed cantograd.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57272	Thank you, Mrs. Vuciilovic, you have no more replicas. Now it's Mr. Josip Djakic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is a second reading of the Waste Act in which the law improves the goals achieved so far, and it is actually a novel of what Croatia wants to achieve in its objectives in waste management. The law is conceptd and defined to achieve public interest in the collection, transport and processing of waste. Waste is not only raw materials, not new products, it is also energy that, if properly used and through this law, it can be seen that the objectives in it are clearly defined and that the beneficiaries of this waste can be those who create a new product, raw materials and energy. The worst when some of our people in Croatia call energy burners, which is actually wrong and creates one mess and the wrong picture and impression. It's full of waste energy worlds and they're the most useful thing that takes care of and produces electricity. So I think this law will achieve one of these goals. But I would like to further improve everything that has been done well in this law and say that there are things that are defined in the objectives, there is a public interest in collecting, transporting and processing waste, so he is in some part and well connected, for example in art. 29 is even described as what should be and how this can be done, but in some other specific categories of waste it is not defined. So in art. 29th in 3rd, we have sub-paragraphs 1. "as a waste collector, start carrying out waste collection activities through waste collection processes throughout the Republic of Croatia", it is later in specific categories of waste, and I would like it to be prepared for control, transparency and clear insight into the collected waste, transported waste and delivered to the rectifier so that I have prepared a certain amendment in order to improve all of this better by the things that should look the next way. And since I'm not talking now about details and practices that are actually publicly visible and available what happened in the past tense, and we need to clearly remove it. My amendment to which I have referred to this procedure in Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It is the 59th century of the 1st century that it is obliged to obtain authority." I don't think it's pretentious or pretentious, but it shows more transparently those who collect, surrender so that one can't write to himself either severances, or blocks, or scales, or be self-control. And so, beyond Article 6. add a new item which should read "authorisation shall be issued to a person who fulfils the conditions as it also meets the requirements for waste management", and that authorisation shall be issued for five years and I think it is clear. There are other words of collection added behind the wording of the 11th century. Here is my whole problem that I see in this law even to bring it closer to reality, in order to be as efficient and better as possible so that the goals set in all the categories of gathering especially in the specific categories of collection and recovery of waste can come to what we want, and that is 85% of domestic electronic equipment or tires or some other products to gather or 65% to achieve the goal set in this law, and also European rules that we must reach. Croatia looks pretty nice today and I have to say that I am very pleased as a person passing by those formerly full of our paths, roads of paper, plastics and everything else, today it is quite different. The possibility of living in the Republic of Croatia, and it is commendable that this waste is actually becoming raw, becoming energy and becoming a new product, so please also appreciate what I have given you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57274	Thank you very much, you have no replicas, so you have no replicas, then this one. Mrs. Romana Nikolic, as long as it's cleaned up, it's her turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57275	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the final proposal of the Waste Management Act, which aims until 2025 to ban certain plastic products from being placed on the market. I will reiterate as well as in the right to read that the SDP club submitted a bill last year in February in which we requested a ban on the marketing of plastic bags and certain products for single use, all in order to reduce the negative impact on the environment, in particular on water, the marine environment, human health and the contribution to the establishment of a circular economy. The government then rejected this, although the European Parliament and Council Directives on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment were transposed. We have thus missed the opportunity for Croatia to be at least the first in something and present itself on the European market, that we are not only a country that cares about the environment but also creates a space for an innovative and new industry and to take advantage of this European market. It is only now that we introduce these changes that could have been brought to life long ago by the basis of our bill. With this final proposal only from 1 January 2022 will we prohibit the placing on the market of lightweight plastic bags with the exception of very lightweight plastic bags, 3.7.2024. ban products on the market that have a plastic cap or lid. It would also highlight the key problem of this proposal to exclude the public and deny the constitutional right of the local self-government area, and thus their population, because through this proposal, the law of the firehouse of hazardous waste is converted into state-important and interest facilities, and that the location of the waste management centre, dump and combustion facilities must be planned by means of a spatial arrangement document, and that these activities can be carried out by almost all, as well as that the location at which the waste management activity can be carried out does not have to be planned by means of a spatial arrangement document if it is located in the area of municipal service, economic or business purposes. In other words, local self-government units are obliged to take planned locations and bring them into line with multi-level plans while all other waste management facilities cannot be affected by any influence, but everyone can build them anywhere or even in economic areas that are often near residential settlements. I would refer to the process of removing waste status, to remove waste status, there is a need to attach a bunch of documentation to the process of abolishing waste for months. Elimination of waste status should be derived from the permits themselves to work and to elaborate because they cannot be obtained unless it is demonstrated that the process on the compost and obtaining composts of acceptable organic waste. Once again, I would point out the basic problem, which is the poor education of citizens with regard to classification and general awareness of the importance of biowaste collection. By dividing we save, preserve natural resources and reduce the amount of waste that returns to nature. Without separate waste collection and recycling, the waste management system is unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57276	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs Sanja Udovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57277	I'm going to continue this individual discussion of what I said and as the position of the SDP Representatives Club. In fact, as I pointed out, this new law continues to support the political orientation of the HDZ government, which is that our waste management system continues to rely on waste management centres, but this time along with waste burning plants that will also be able to be built but without consultation of the public and the profession. In fact, as head of local self-government, I am extremely concerned with the exclusion of local self-government in the work or in the planning of waste management centres, but not to say especially the combustion plant is now becoming objects of state interest and local self-government is, by law, bound by these same centres or buildings to plan in their spatial plans. So local self-government can no longer manage its own space given to it in part-time work. I also have to say that actually waste management centres as they're imagined or represent the last point I'd say in the waste management system. My colleagues and colleagues talked a lot about primary selection, we must also point out that instead of focusing on this last point in the waste management system, we had to put our focus on primary waste selection, but also on setting up the raw materials market in the Republic of Croatia, there is virtually no meaning that in the future waste management costs or costs for end-users will only grow, and they will also grow in those parts of Croatia where waste management centres have not started to operate because the very physibilities of the centre study show that they should have leaned on the combustion plants or energy plants that, according to that previous law, should have been built by the Ministry or the state, but in this past, it has remained, and now these same centres are paying more than 800 kuna for fuel treatment at those same centres. But also, the centres in their price must include what is called a reservation for planning the surface in the future business of these centres and the existing prices that amount to somewhere realistically means that the price at the entrance to the centre is slightly more than 100 euros, in fact, not enough. This was recognised by the Ministry or the Fund, which is how it plans to co-finance waste fuel management in its financial plan, but the question is therefore what will be when it is left behind, which will be when the fund no longer co-finances that supply price and what will be when existing centres have to plan for the future for its business development of new surfaces. One such flood comes to you slightly more than 20 million kunas, so it will all spill over to our builders who will then have to pay in the price of collecting and exporting waste because municipal societies will have to install it in their price. So, without further ado and focusing on primary waste selection, this upgrade of the costs of the operation of the waste management centre will put an enormous burden on our citizens. And that is why, in fact, by pointing to this, but also to all the other shortcomings, we cannot accept this proposal of the Waste Management Act because it does not work in the interests of our citizens, but in fact, it puts additional burden on our citizens, and that we are not dealing with the problem of waste management or environmental protection because it is a well-known thing that waste management actually represents the worst link in environmental protection. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57278	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Jure Bourkan's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57279	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Waste Management Act, so the second reading is already, from the first to the present day we talk a lot about all aspects of the proposed law, we are justifiably discussing all its shortcomings and the existing law and the one that is proposed. However, the same should also highlight the positive things that this proposal of the Waste Management Act brings to us. The most positive for me and the best thing that just continues to build a system of sustainable waste management, this law essentially continues all the positive things from the existing ones that have led so far to the fact that the amount of RH separates more waste than it did four years ago. Also mixed municipal waste tends to be taken care of in a normal and legal manner. We also say all this in the context of green transition and our obligations as EU members to move on to a green sustainable economy with the aim of reducing pollution and preserving nature and the environment. We can also mention what opposition colleagues have said about violating the provisions of the Law on the right to access information. If there is such a thing has happened to this bill in the sense that the Law on the right to access information in the context of giving an answer to the e-Consultation was not in line with the normative framework set out in the Law on Access to Information, it does not reduce the value of the law of this in waste management or the benefits that society will have on the adoption of this law. On the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, we have heard in particular in detail several times, and from the promoters all the arguments relating to the positive sides of this law. Also in our committee meetings, we had essentially participated in discussions and various ecological associations, civil society organisations, and on the other hand we would have professional economic organisations such as HGK, HOK. They basically broke the most spear around this decision from our law to remove single plastic products, and also to be around plastic bags to carry the thickness of the rock less than 50 micrometers. It was always a story of whether this should now be interrupted abruptly, environmental associations and civil society organisations mainly required almost instantaneously abolishing almost all plastic products. On the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce and they said how many people are employed in the sector, how many people will be affected by such a decision and how it is not yet ready to happen. However, it is clear to all of us that our obligations are clear to all of us that we want a sustainable green economy, it is also clear to all of us that what the promoter has said has been communicating with plastic producers for five years now, that this dialogue with them has long begun and ultimately to take effect 1.1.2022. and all of them until then have enough time to adjust to essentially adjusting to the ban on placing on the market of certain plastic products. In addition to this ban, new higher waste recycling targets were set by law until 2035. and new lower waste disposal targets so that, for the purpose of EU circular economy contribution, the following objectives should be achieved, I repeat, at least 55% of total municipal waste must be recovered by recycling and preparation for reuse by 2025, 60% by 2030 and 65% by 2035. This law also laid down the authority to keep records and eyewitnesses for waste management activities managed by the competent county administrative authorities, and also prescribed public service to collect mixed municipal waste, which makes all public service, who are public service users, accounting, public service prices, public service obligations and local self-government units. So a lot of new things that will allow our society to move faster, safer and better on to a green sustainable economy And I therefore see no obstacles to this law being passed as proposed. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57280	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57281	Thank you very much. Col. Brkan, you've done well with this part of your view of this law, but here I am constantly not functioning by this discussion by the SDP club in which a lady who is co-owner of a centre, let's say that, since the head of the Viskovo Municipality who manages the waste in our county and now the law offers the possibility of helping, that the fund helps in the part where the costs are being generated, and they insist on announcing here several times already announced that they will gather us and let's tell us about taking care of this waste at that centre for about 30 percent. So the law helps you, I'm against the law, but we're going to increase the price that's kind of a message for that debate. I don't understand it, but I let everyone think what they want. What's important is we finally create a system that's agreed with local self-government. with the leaders of the group who are concerned that this system can function and that it creates as little cost as possible. What are your experiences in your county? You were a recent leader. And is that close to what we already have in our county or what needs to be done there to make it better. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57282	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57283	As you said we are building a system and if we want to manage the system responsibly and well, it costs something. And we basically as JLS leaders were always aware and normal that this cost additionally did not want to be transferred complete to our fellow citizens. What you said is happy is the one who has a waste management centre available, happy is the one whose fund in this transport to the centre helps. The city of Makarska is unfortunately since 2004. There's no waste disposal. Our county hasn't yet built the Waste Management Center. Therefore, we have been struggling for many years and the city of Makarska co-finances the transport of waste from all over Croatia with a large, significant amount. That's what the fund helps us with, and we're grateful for that. However, we cannot say that all that the state has done for us now will suddenly collect further transportation and waste collection. If rational and smart masters can stay the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57284	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57285	Your Honor, I answered for two reasons. The first is that I saw Mr. Boric raise his line, so I expected him to attack the SDP and I was right. Hello, fellow Boric. This and to correct it immediately, so our colleague is not a co-owner of the waste, but she is actually the head of Oocina Viskovo, and the municipality of Viskovo is co-owner of this dump, so there would be no dilemma... Well, it's not the same. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Second, I wanted to, I wanted to...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57286	You're replicating this to the speaker now, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57287	Yeah, yeah. I wanted to draw attention and you were talking about bags for, for carrying goods that are actually being thrown, single bags and these bags that actually create big problems. I think it was enough time for those who produced these bags to actually change their production or to reorient and to work a completely different range with the same workers on other machines. However, the question is how agile they were and were willing to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57288	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57289	I'd like to thank the esteemed repatriate. As you said, in fact, Mr. Boric just thought, Udovic is a responsible person in the owner of the waste management centre. However, as you said, there is no ban on us, but a ban on placing plastic bags on the market... It's up to 50 micrometers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Each producer of such bags in the present period, meaning it is not prohibited, can export them if it has a market for it, and also adapts its products and manufactures for some different types of bags or other plastic packagings. But ultimately, this waste management bill, we bring it in so that our environment and nature can be cleaner, so that things like that don't end up in the environment. It is particularly difficult for us in Adriatic coastal cities that when such bags end up in the sea then it is difficult to pick them up more, they remain in the sea permanently and pollute our environment. That's why I think it's a good thing to break up and basically ban the placing on the market of such bags.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57290	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. So here yesterday, in front of a meeting of the association gathered in the Zero Waste Croatia initiative, this bill was not ambitious enough to help improve the quality of life of our citizens and protect the environment. These are associations that have been literally for years, some colors and 10 years dealing with the production and development of waste management programmes, following the latest trends and good practices from other countries. They continue to warn about the burning problems of this important segment of green transition and always propose innovative solutions, effective solutions that lead to reduction, reuse and recycling of waste. The main objections to this proposal of the Waste Management Act are to list just some, replacing the target of separate waste collection from 60% to 2022, a weaker target than 50% of recycled waste by 2025, although some cities and municipalities have proven that it can be better than that set target than 60%. The truth is that now it's also about recycled waste, not just separately, but we still think that the goal should have been at least 60%. Then persistently imposing obligations on cities and municipalities to hand mixed waste over to regional centres instead of environmentally acceptable processing in their own facilities, the centres expensively charge it after which cities are forced to raise their accounts to citizens. It is also problematic that the obligation to adopt waste management plans is transferred from JLS to the county, which is completely contrary to the principles of sustainable decentralised waste management that has been proven most effective and sustainable worldwide. They also warn that the proposal for a new law only transposes the EU's minimum requirements for a directive without greater and necessary ambitions showing more responsible countries such as Slovenia, Ireland, France, Austria, I think. A good example is measures to reduce single plastics, they are limited to only certain harmful and single plastic products, while for others no measures or reduction targets set out in that single plastic directive are prescribed. Also, although the law prohibits lightweight plastic bags, which is a step forward of course, it does not prohibit the rental of single plastic bags that are known to be one of the most definitely large pollutants. They also stress further concern by the fact that the law allows for different interpretations of a number of articles that can be easily used at that time and actually at the expense of both citizens and citizens. The best example for this, already mentioned, is how to calculate the price of public service. It does not define mechanisms to protect citizens from unfair price structures and in fact reward them for proper waste management. So there should be no expert on waste management to see how much expertise, knowledge and imperial public interest the association gathered in Zero waste Croatia is dealing with the topic of waste management. And that is why I find it unacceptable that public debates in too large a percentage do not take into account reasoned comments and proposals at all, not only Zero waste Croatia but also numerous citizens, civil organisations and civil initiatives, because why public debate, if there is no possibility of dialogue between law makers and interested public and professions. What, then, is the maintenance of some, so to speak, mere forms of unwillful cooperation that would surely produce a better bill that really determines the direction of waste management over the next 10 years, which is one of the pillars of the green transition, for which, hopefully, no longer needs to prove how important and urgent it is because the green development of Croatia has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57292	You, too. Now it's Mr. Tomislav Okroša's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57293	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished representatives of the ministry, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. As far as the Final Proposal for the Waste Management Act is concerned, I would like to highlight the example of good practice from the environment from which I come. The town of Vrbovec and the municipalities of Dubrava, Gradec, Farkaševac, Rakovec and Presek are co-owners of the municipal company Komunalac Vrbovac. One of the business's activities is to collect and dispose of waste, and to think smartly, talk about a project to rehabilitate the dump of Beljavina. The project is financed by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund as well as all 6 units of local self-government. The result of the rehabilitated and expanded waste disposal site is that residents from the area of the municipalities and the town of Vrbovac have the lowest cost of waste disposal in the wider area. As the entry into force of this Act prohibits the placing on the market of certain single plastic products and plastic bags, it is good to raise citizens' awareness of waste separation and recycling. We have achieved this by co-financing, often up to 85% of the construction and equipment of recycling yards. By obtaining mobile recycling yards, as well as by assigning cans for separate collection of waste to every household. It is also important to note that by adopting this Waste Management Act, the bonds of the production of the Waste Management Plan become the Republic of Croatia and the County and the City of Zagreb, not more units of local self-government. I find the law extremely important and important, so of course we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57294	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. The Dragon was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57295	Thank you. You are the head of the local self-government unit and are obliged to comply with the provisions and regulations of the Waste Management Act. I'm curious to know what you would do in your community regarding the separation of municipal waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57296	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57297	Thank you very much for asking. Of course we worked and participated in all competitions of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and obtained a mobile recycling yard that periodically collects and sorts waste in all 27 settlements in the municipality of Dubrava. We also built and released a recycling yard where citizens can take care of waste free of charge. We've got it, and we're going to share each house with the trash, paper and plastic cans. We have also set up locations with green islands in several settlements, and we have done a number of educational workshops for residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57298	Done? It is. Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Davor Bernardic has his next debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57299	Dear vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I said and the first time there weren't a lot of MPs in this room, an apology in voice, I think the climate in the car is less because of the delta soy. What I've said for the first time is that this law is at least a year late. So waste management in Croatia unfortunately shows that Croatia is in fact completely unprepared for the new EU paradigm, which is the Green New Plan. So the Green New Plan is a key EU document that simply requires all documents in Croatia and the EU to be harmonised, and it provides for the social and economic transformation of Europe by 2050, which means that the entire economy will absolutely have to rest on these very sustainable principles. Waste management is the first prerequisite for moving to a circular economy. So, in principle 3R, rare, that means reducing waste, reuse, reuse product and recycling, recycling. So Croatia will certainly, given the state of play, have to work much more intensively on transition from the current linear to the circular economy by adopting and disciplined implementation of the Green Transformation Strategy of Croatia. But what is the real situation in Croatia? Croatia is late in implementation of waste directives, which is why the EU Commission has already announced penalties, i.e. financial penalties for Croatia. I'll tell you just one example, so for one unsanitary dump, Italy paid a million euros a day, so these penalties can be so drastic. Croatia is also late in implementation of the Waste Pekic Waste Management Directive, Croatia is late in line with the Directive for specific categories of waste, Croatia is late, and we are particularly concerned by the alignment of the Landfill Directive, which provides for the resolution of existing dumps. And in Croatia unfortunately, no dumps, so I'll say again, no dump has been rescheduled according to European standards because all dumps are still being dumped, so it was waste along with other waste that makes gasses appear, which causes decay and simply causes the smell. Perhaps the best example for this is the largest Croatian waste dump Jakuševac, which has been smelling for 20 years to the inhabitants of the whole of Zagreb, and it especially smells like the inhabitants of New Zagreb, because Zagreb only has an eye on waste disposal and eventually all the waste seems to end up on the same pile. And I therefore welcome the announcements of the new city authorities of the City of Zagreb and Mr. Tomasevic and Mr. Klisovic as the president of the city's assembly who, even during the election campaign, pointed out that it is necessary to close the waste disposal site of Jakusevic as soon as possible. I call on them, of course, to make this smell of New Zagreb and the rest of the city not so widespread and to simply do their best to finally have a normal waste management system in the City of Zagreb. As far as the government is concerned, what should be said to the last 5 years. there is absolutely nothing done about waste management because unfortunately in Croatia all the time a ping-pong is played between JLS on the one hand, between the government on the other hand and thus the responsibility is transferred, and in fact there is no problem being solved. I have long spoken in this assembly that it is necessary for the state to take full responsibility for the waste management system because ultimately the one who will have to pay the penalty are at the end of the day Croatian citizens and that is something we cannot allow. Therefore, citizens could soon have twice the price of waste disposal due to their State and local units' irresponsibility. Dear representatives, we must not allow this, and it is therefore our responsibility to simply warn the representatives of the government here as soon as possible to resuscitate the dumps in Croatia and to apply all waste directives as soon as possible so as not to put our people living in our country into this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57300	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57301	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bernardic, you were talking about a smell spreading from the Yakushevac. So I'll tell you that smell from Zagreb is spreading all the way to Lower Miholjc because mixed municipal waste with biowaste is driving to a biogas plant in Lower Miholjc and there is taking care of in a way that is completely inappropriate. And as long as you say hello to the new mayor, I'm going to call him until he stops with this harmful practice that poisons the air, our fertile Slavonic land and groundwater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57302	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57303	I'll answer you. Well, here are respected MPs, of course, that the problems don't exist since yesterday, the problems are certainly piled up and when the City of Zagreb, but the whole of Croatia on the issue, and that's what I said, which you agreed with me, that in Croatia none of the waste dumps are actually recovered because there's this uninsured waste where this biowaste is mixed with other waste and it creates smell, creates gas, creates decay, and it's simply something that has to be solved in Croatia because I repeat we'll get foams. I believe that it takes some time to resolve the waste issue in the City of Zagreb, but I think it will be the priority of the future city government as it could become the priority of the Croatian government, because if we don't resolve the issue of waste not only will we be buried in the garbage, but what is worst for the citizens we will load on the neck exactly the higher price of waste disposal, which we must not allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57304	Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57305	Dear colleague Bernardić, you as well as many others mentioned the closure of Jakushec, but neither of you, nor of those many others, have I heard the alternative to Jakushevec at this time. And it personally seems to me that last year the City of Zagreb was much cleaner at this time than it was today, that there were much more depravated parks, that there were no leaves and that there was not so much trash in the streets as this year. By your compliments to the current mayor, I expect that something will finally move on that matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57306	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57307	Well, then, colleague Klaric, you've noticed well. First of all, perhaps Zagreb was cleaner, but it was a lockdown, so people were simply, there were not on the streets at that time as many as there might be today. Another matter related to executive power. So, I didn't praise them here, and I didn't let anyone down, but I just brought up facts. Therefore, whoever is most responsible for resolving the issue of waste at Croatian level is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in the City of Zagreb, I expect, of course, that everyone will act in accordance with what they said at the level of Croatia, and also at the level of the City of Zagreb, that this issue will finally be resolved throughout Croatia and Marašććina, but also in Marišćina, but also in the City of Zagreb and that this Jakuševac will finally be closed. That's what many have been saying, I believe there's a plan, there's an idea, there's an initiative, and what's most important is that there's a good will to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57308	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57309	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, the island of Krk joined the "Zero Waste" strategy for waste management, or a strategy for the maximum reduction of the production and increase of re-use, recycling and composting of waste. This opened the door to the society of best European practices in waste management. The island of Krk started again in 2005 when the rest of Croatia and much of Europe were an incomprehensible dream. When I say island Krk, I mean its citizens. I think of citizens who were first in Croatia to accept such a complete waste management system in the Republic of Croatia. Today, the island of Krk is firmly in the position of the most environmentally conscious environments, thanks to the will and understanding of these same citizens. They do not need punishment or incentive fees, such as were wrongfully punished, so to this day. The island of Krk needs to be helped in optimizing the waste collection system and therefore we decided to implement Zero waste strategy because we are responsible and because we want to be better. At the same time, we want to reduce the waste disposal costs precisely for us for the citizens who are responsible, who are responsible and who deserve their responsibility to be paid. In this context, I would like to thank the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for accepting my observations made in the first reading of this Act, which prevented the risk of growth or overcoming fixed costs to citizens who would have to pay them that the remark was not accepted. Also, thanks to this observation, on an island where 70% of waste is generated during the tourist season, the risk of not recording the waste has been prevented and therefore the unfair island with the best results in waste separation has been penalized. Of course, these foams would be paid from the budget of the local self-government unit, i.e. we must be aware of that, from the pockets of Croatian citizens of the island of Krk. For the sake of awareness of how much effort and money has been invested in these 16 years by these same citizens, in order to implement a successful model of waste management, I have also proposed on the Committee the categorisation of local self-government units according to the effectiveness of waste separation, and those who do not achieve the national objective, but who have reached that goal, should not pay the same price, i.e. the incentive fee at a ton of the same price as those who are miles away from that goal. I want the whole of Croatia to think like the island of Krk, I want the whole of Croatia to think as citizens of the island of Krk and to know that their responsible behaviour will be rewarded. However, the problem with this Act remains, the price of basic minimum public service. We're talking about a fixed fee, which is the same for all users within the household category and indifference. In the category of indifference, there is a problem because it is treated equally by a citizen who rents a room with a hotel of 2,000 beds. Also, it equals a small kiosk with a factory. Art. 66, however, it is possible for units of local self-government to adopt criteria for reducing public service prices for individual users, but art. 73 prescribed that these criteria must encourage the user to separately collect waste and, when possible, compost it. But that's not enough. Why is it not enough? Because these users, or users of impunity, and without this condition are simply incomparable. You can't compare the generation of waste by a pensioner who rents a single room and a hotel with 2,000 beds during the tourist season, which is the criterion that will allow them to, to prove that a separate collection of waste is encouraged? So they're light years incomparable. And they don't need any criteria for that incomparability to be seen. I would also like to take this opportunity and point out the failure of the bill to be corrected, and to what the SDP Club has tabled and the amendment, I am talking about uncovered financing of transport costs and the handover of waste to an authorised person and waste collection services in the recycling yard, which is not financed in accordance with the provisions of Article. 65th century 2 of this Law, but without burdening the debate, the amendment has been tabled and I believe you will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57310	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Bencic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57311	Thank you. Dear colleague Ahmetovic. You were also talking about some possible models of a fairer collection system on the Committee itself and why there will actually be.../incomprehensible/... injustices for those who are smaller consumers, who are small, have small crafts, kiosk, etc. And to those who are big, who really have to pay most of it, the larger fixed part. So can you please tell us, in what way would that system actually be fairer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57313	Thank you very much. As should be categorised, which should be categorised, units of local self-government which are close to achieving the national waste separation target and to be in a more favourable position, i.e. to pay a lower price of waste separation, or waste disposal than those far away from them, so categories that generate much less waste than those that generate a pile of waste, categorize and enable them should simply be lower prices. It can't be equal to a fixed fee, and we know that about 95% of the fee is actually fixed in all our public enterprises, equally to pay one small user who actually rents only one room and that big hotel of 2000 or more beds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57314	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Now we're going to the representatives' clubs, it's the first one, the first one's the Green-Left Bloc Club, and Mrs. Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57315	Thank you. So I'm going to state now a few reasons why the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives cannot support this proposal of the Waste Management Act. First, I would like to point out once again and thank you, in fact, for the efforts of Udovic, who showed us in fact through the Commissioner for Information that the process of e-consultation was not in line with the procedure and did not respect the Law on the right to access information, and one large part of the comments received did not receive a satisfactory answer, and they were also not included in the final draft of the law. Another reason is that waste management centres are still a fundamental strategy for the disposal of unclassified municipal waste, where in fact a very large part of the EU funds from the priority axis for the environment are spent precisely on the construction of pre-named waste management centres. By the way, when we're talking about pre-named, what are we talking about? We believe that if there is a need for waste management centres, and we will always have a part of the waste that we will not be able to classify or re-use, etc., that the prerequisite for each county or region where the waste management centre was planned should be set up as a complete system for collection, separation, reuse, sorting, recycling yard, etc. to actually ensure that then really these waste management centers are just for the rest of the part after we have used the maximum, maximum re-use and use everything we have from household waste and legal entities. At that time, in that case, we would not have the feasibility studies we have today for certain waste management centres that were made on the basis of the figures from 2018, 2019 and 2020 on quantities of unclassified municipal waste. And then what happens? You have an example that I have often talked about in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the Waste Management Centre is planned above Maloston Bay where there are serious risks that any, by any passing of wastewater from the Waste Management Centre into groundwater could end up in the Bay of Maloston, which would actually make it impossible to produce and place on the market stones and shells, other shellfish from the Maloston Bay which is a protected area, and we have also managed to protect those stones. So why? This is because it has been pre-named because it has been done on numbers that are either now or from 2018 and 2019, and this CGO would, for example, It should be finished by the time it's built in three years, four years. So that's the wrong approach. Second, as regards the prohibition and placing on the market of certain plastic products for single use. First, we think it should be more ambitious and cover everything that can be covered by one-time products. Second, but for each of these products put so-called. Catovdate, so when, when the ban goes into effect. That way the manufacturers would have enough time to prepare themselves. So we are absolutely to move all single plastics, but we are also to make sure that all producers and all those who use it eventually, for example caterinzi etc., have time to prepare. And not only that, more importantly, that we here in Croatia produce replacement products, that we produce replacement products, and at the moment when there are no more and one-time plastics we use our product and we employ an additional number of people, and we do not necessarily lose jobs. And that's what we call a fair green transition. We also believe that there should be a stronger proactive approach to the financing of government, local authorities at all levels regarding the installation of waste-separation infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57316	Sir, thank you very much, Mr. Josip Boric will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, also finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57317	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is final on behalf of the HDZ Club, since some new remarks have been made to the law, I would like to say the following. So never before in prices formed by local self-government. local utility companies, this lady who has one small room was not equal with a hotel of 1000 accommodation units. This was not simply possible, nor are the same conditions, nor are the same prices, nor are the same containers used, nor was anything equal in this relationship. So trying to use these household provisions and not the household is trying to re-create a similar story. Why is this law good? Because we'll finally see, for example. I will take the City of Zagreb, finally to see how the formation of green policies works on such a large city, almost 800,000 inhabitants. We all heard, we have a dump unsanitarily still in operation, which is a great advantage now given the cost of waste compared to the Primorje-Gorski and Istrian County where we pay for the transportation waste to the Waste Management Centre. Everyone promised in the campaign we would close it, we heard the first closure of 2025, at the end of the term, at the end of the term, not 2022-2023, at the end of the term of office. What kind of message is that? We'll continue to use unclosed dumps that die. Come on, you gentlemen in the green politics or the green-left block, close it as soon as possible and tell the citizens how much it costs and who's gonna take that cost. What has this law made possible? He made it possible for the mayor to very quickly form a new price list through the holding he has, through his leader who will prescribe the basis of these criteria absolutely all variables of that price list, including the hotel, I don't know Westin or any other amount of money he will pay, and how much will a citizen pay in an apartment of 40, 30, 50 square meters with one, two, four or six family members. You'll prescribe that. After that, you will come to the Assembly, after the Assembly first draws up criteria at the head of the SDP and brings the criteria for the basis to be formed by the price list by the director of the municipal society. Then the mayor will give consent. But you must always have in your subconscious that you are still taking care of a dump that has not been recovered. It's a daily waste, it's a little bit covered with a piece of land, and it works. And that's what we've done with our waste management in this city so far, unlike many other environments where it's not there. We don't have anywhere to put that surplus that Mrs. Bencic is talking about. That smallest piece of mixed municipal waste must be taken away. We don't have a place to put it because we've rescheduled as Mr. Bernardic says, there's not one that's been rehabilitated. There are resolved landfills fully in accordance with what the European Commission and the European Union and the Funds are asking for because you cannot get a useful permit on that facility if you have not done what you are prescribed. You can't have it. If you got it means you did everything. We have a problem that's easy to approach, which is composting. So it's no problem to make one compos. It's a big problem to make today. You'll do everything you can to resuscitate and load and recycling and sortery. Compostana, that's a bit of a bigger problem. And there's very few of them. Why? Because it's a problem. How it works, how it is taken care of, and how it breaks the cost of building one such composite on the back of those who pay and these are citizens. Those who were or were already willing to participate in the creation of the system, and again I am talking about citizens and my county, the Istrian County, etc. We know what costs us. In my community, every household has a compass. Having a compass means one bill a year to pay less, because you have a discount of 8 to 9% on each account. It saves you one bill a year. You want to compost? Composit. We'll give you a compass, pay less and that's fine. I believe that we have good experience that we can learn that this law has finally done so in cooperation with local self-government and again mention a group of service providers in waste management who have said that this is both helpful and beneficial. And that's why I find it unusual for those who are leaders of green policies today to speak against this bill, and we'll have a chance to say very quickly whether that policy was successful, whether it solved what she promised in the election campaigns or just leaned on that explanation that would be the easiest. It was a bad law, it was the government's fault, and we were doing the best we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57318	Now Mrs Mirela Ahmetovic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club also finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57319	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So since in my debate, I have presented the problem quite clearly, i.e. the problems and negativity of the laws that remain despite some improvement in the law and my colleague, Boric, has made some claims here that do not correspond to what the law says, and I have a need to correct it. Therefore, mandatory minimum service is charged, and I am talking about fixed fee, is charged within a particular category of users, users are not households and households alike. Therefore, everyone in the household category and everyone in the disability category pays the same price as the minimum public service. When we talk about an imaginary pensioner who rents one room, even though he's both a household and an indifference under this law here will be treated as an indifference. Within that category, the same one that rents one single room is identical to the one that rents 2,000 beds to the hotel and they pay the same price as the minimum public service. Read the law and that's the illogicality I've been talking about. And while one of the articles of the law says that there are criteria that allow units of local self-government, representative bodies to bring discounts within a particular category but the criteria that must be achieved is to encourage users to separate collection of waste. And by what criteria will you encourage this one person who rents only one room to separately collect waste, while at the same time not encouraging the hotel to separately collect waste. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, the laws serve to be enforceable on the ground, to be logical and to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not only to be adopted in order to bring them into line and to implement the European directives. The island of Krk does not need anyone's directive to be an ecological island. Citizens of the island of Krk implemented a complete waste management system 16 years ago. They do not need to be aware and responsible for punishment. They need help to optimise their system, to be better than the best in Europe not only in Croatia. But let's not do this over the back of citizens who have invested not only effort, not only time, but also their own money, because let's not forget the funds and the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency and the ministries and units of local self-government and public enterprises. Well, it's not the funds from Andrej Plenkovic's pocket or any other prime minister. These are the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Krk in this example. And let's not put them in the same basket with the irresponsible. Let's not say what doesn't stand. The law is very clear, I read it very clearly and ask that this kind of injustice be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57320	Thank you, too. Now you must first tell me Boric or Boric because I heard Boric here just before. All right, Mr. Boric, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57321	Thank you very much. Article 238, in the part where my debate is disrespected by my colleague Ahmetovic, I have not looked back on the island of Krk in one word, nor on the citizens of the island. I respect them in every way and everything they've done. The fact that you tried to give the impression that I was mixing something there in view of that relationship, I'm saying I'm right because you have a joint venture that cares. We at Rab have two businesses that care about waste management and everyone has their own experience. I argue responsibly that neither this individual nor the hotel settlement were in the same category until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57322	Please, it was a replica. I have to give you a warning. Mr. Mile Horvatt will, the Secretary of State will speak on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57323	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. So, at the end of this debate, I'm going to thank you all for your opinions, your views. We listen to them, we respect them, and we appreciate them. Of course, we don't all have to think about the same thing the same way, but we need to do the same job and go the same way so that this law that hasn't even brought a little bit of a simple life needs to change many ways of acting, ways of thinking. We need to educate the citizens, we need to educate at least the people in the whole thing. And, of course, local self-government leaders need to understand that their role in waste management is now much more complex, more constructive, more creative and responsible. The amendments we got, we're gonna look at them today, tomorrow we're gonna get to the bottom of them, and I'm just gonna finish. So, not to remain in the air, however, about 305 dumps were rescheduled 210 in a professional, technically acceptable way so that nothing could be in the air, that no dump in the Republic of Croatia was recovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57324	Thank you, too. You've got three replicas to stay. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57325	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore this law will be passed on Thursday, there are no secrets there. But you've been the secretary of state in the ministry for a while, no matter what his name was. We are all struggling with waste, we are struggling with the state, we are struggling with local self-government units, and among other things, citizens who must be adequately educated, and we are stressing it all the time. I'm interested in you as Secretary of State for Waste Resor what would you do, which result do you expect at the end of the term of office of this government? What are the improvements, and what is the step in terms of waste and the attitude towards waste that is to be expected? When we take some percentages we see that it is simply not good and that the different parts of Croatia are in different condition than the island of Krk that does excellent work, to some other and larger cities that do not do excellent work. What would be the result that would satisfy you, or that you might say that the job is well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57326	Thank you Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57327	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. So you asked me a very difficult and complex question what would please us? So we set ourselves goals, mathematical goals in this law. If we're going to get close to those goals I don't know, we'll see. I'm an optimist by nature. Digression one. I wish the city of Rijeka would be more separate from the waste, if it were to move away from those 12, 13% and then the situation in the Marines would probably be as the center of something that is not good, which is unsuccessful, it would be quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57328	Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So once again, I thank you for listening to our debate, which you are constructively thinking, and for probably realizing that it is necessary and necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the law, that the collection is defined as special, and the use or processing of waste as proposed in the amendment. I believe that you will also accept it, and then the law will be complete, transparent and look at all the things that are needed in order for the collection to also have a five-year permit as well as the use.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57330	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57331	Thank you. Honorable representative, therefore, the gathering is part of the entire system. Collection is a segment that organizes, controls, financial monitors etc. Environmental protection fund as our operating body. We set the criteria in this law within which all collectors and users should behave. I hope that this system will function in the best way because in a broader debate we could conclude that the past time was not, in the past time it was not exactly ideal behavior and correlation between these two essential segments and entities in the management of specific categories of waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57332	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57333	Dear Secretary, I hope we will agree that unfortunately the island of Krk and the people of Krk are in fact regarding the disposal of the waste of exceptions in Croatia. There are few of them. In Krapina, we trained our inhabitants to separate waste, and after that, only two buckets of blue and green – blue for paper and green for the rest of the waste. Now those who are a little more aware of the green islands drive glass and plastics and drive to the recycling yard even the composting material, but only those who are more conscious and the others know how to wash. It is your Croatian reality and there is something you need to do about it because otherwise we will end up where we do not belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57334	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57335	I thank you, Your Honor. You are absolutely right when you detected that this is a Croatian reality and you could talk about it very much, about different habits, the behaviors of people within the Republic of Croatia. But the last sentence you said that we should do something about it you skipped, you need who you are in charge of local self-government, you first need to do something that you are in direct communication with citizens, with users of public services, with public service providers who, as a state, we as a ministry are authorized to prescribe measures within which to behave. Therefore, measures to be implemented by certain entities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57336	Mr. Pavic's breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know how it will end, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57337	In violation of Rules of Procedure 238, I am not a local leader there, the local leader is a colleague of HDZ and he's doing what we said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57338	Mr. Pavić, Mr. Pavić, I have to stop you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57339	If they were sharper, more severe punishments would be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57340	I have to stop you, I have to stop you, and I have the right to stop you by the Rules of Procedure. You have a warning. I'm closing the debate, voting, because it was a replica, of course, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Break to 1 hour and 5 minutes. Open the windows, please, for ventilation. Thank you. It's 12.55 hours. We're out of position, moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, first reading, P.Z. Number 160. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the economic and sustainable development minister's representative Tomislav Ćoric like to take the lead? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57366	Honorable Vice President HS Mr. Radin, respected MPs and MPs at HS. The HGK law dates back to 1991. During its 30-year application, many circumstances have changed both in the market and in the chamber system, and therefore the economic chamber should be adapted to new trends in the economy and the needs of entrepreneurs that have changed over time. The main objective of adopting this law is to increase the engagement, proactiveity and quality of the HGK and its transformation into an efficient and efficient service facing economies. In addition, in the past period it was necessary to bring the harmonisation of still valid but outdated terminology of terms in this law that no longer corresponds to the applicable legislation in the Republic of Croatia. HKG is an independent professional business organisation of economic operators established to promote, coordinate and represent common interests and resolve their disputes in the country and abroad. The chamber is set up according to the territorial principle of county chambers with the possibility of establishing representation offices and offices abroad with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and mixed chambers with foreign persons based in the country or abroad. Membership in the chamber is mandatory, and members are legal persons who carry out economic activity based in the Republic of Croatia. The obligations arising from their membership in the chamber shall be proportionate to their economic strength, which shall be determined by their classification in groups according to the data of the total assets, revenues and the average number of employees over the year contained in the annual financial report of each member or member. Members on a voluntary basis may be institutions and other right persons engaged in social activities, professional and professional associations, scientific and educational institutions, associations, and other legal and physical persons who show interest in this. The funds necessary for the operation of the HGK shall be provided from membership fees, fees incurred in carrying out their own activity, income from assets, and other exceptional revenues. Most chamber members, or 96.7% of them, pay membership fees of 42 kuna per month for which they have the right to the unlimited use of most services. It is about databases, legal information, logistics and lobbying and marketing services, looking for partners on foreign markets, organisation of business meetings, consulting services for funding projects from eu funds, etc. A digital chamber web portal has been developed that provides a new dimension of services to its members. According to the classification model, we now recognize three groups of HGK members. The first group includes members of the chamber who do not exceed two of the following three criteria, that the total assets are up to 7.5 million kuna, that total revenues are up to 15 million kuna and that the number of employees is up to 50. The second group includes members of the chamber crossing two of the three criteria of the first group, but does not exceed two of the following three criteria, that the total activity is 30 million kuna, that total revenues are up to 60 million kuna and that the number of employees is up to 250 million kuna. The third group shall comprise members of the chamber who exceed two of the three criteria of the second group. The group members shall be assigned each year on the basis of the information contained in the annual financial report and the membership fee for each group of chamber members each year shall be determined by the Chamber Assembly by a separate decision. The amount of membership fee for members of the chamber who volunteer to join each year shall also be determined by the Chamber Assembly by a special decision. Having in mind the long-standing dissatisfaction of part of the chamber members who experience membership as parafiscal imposes, and in order to reduce and abolish parafiscal burdens in the Republic of Croatia and to relieve economic operators and improve the business climate, we decided on a model that frees the first group of members from membership. This group is the most numerous and includes about 96% of the chamber members. The introduction of the possibility of membership without paying a membership fee by this legislative proposal for the first group of members representing the most numerous memberships, aims to stimulate and modernise the chamber system and offer new services that would attract new membership and motivate the old to retain membership. This is particularly important for members who wish to achieve adequate representation in the authorities of the chamber, which is the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the position of the President. Subjects who decide to retain their membership would receive the necessary representativeness by the size, income and activities of the management bodies. In addition to existing services and chamber products, it must design in the next period and a range of new services for the benefit of its members and further recognition of the chamber in the business world as a reliable partner who cares for the interests and well-being of its members. The ultimate goal of these amendments is to improve the entrepreneurial environment and increase the quality of public service provision, increase the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs on the domestic and foreign market and contribute to the creation of an e-business platform and increase the level of digital internationalisation of the Croatian economy. Consequently, this law will improve the operation of the chamber and change the perception of the chamber by the public and part of the members as an institution which is our own purpose, as many times in recent months we have had the opportunity to hear and also make it a function of development and the well-being of the economy and its holders. It is predicted that improving the services that the chamber will deliver will achieve better results, greater benefits for economic operators or chamber members, and will ultimately reflect on the Croatian budget's revenue side. We believe that this legal solution brings us closer to achieving such a goal and a business model that will also not compromise the existence of the chamber system. It is undeniable that the HGK represents one of the oldest and most influential organisations that advocated the mandatory membership model prescribed by law because it thus ensured its political neutrality and independence as well as financial stability. However, the Croatian chamber system set up this way 30 years ago has caused, as I pointed out at the outset, dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction or was no longer sustainable in the existing form. That is why we believe that these amendments to the bill will succeed in restoring the trust of the businessmen in the chamber system and the HGK as an institution that will support and monitor Croatian businessmen on the way to their development and expansion. The reform processes attached to this HGK bill bear the financial discharge as I have already stated, but also the functional and organisational reorganisation of HGK's work. Dear MPs and MPs, I hope that this proposal of the HGK Act is acceptable to you and that you will support it in your discussions and that we will eventually come out of the HS with a new HGK Act which, as we have once again stressed, will do everything possible to ensure that the HGK in the Croatian economy has a place that it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57367	Thank you, too, stay here because you will have replicas. But before the replica Mrs. Mariana Puljak asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57368	Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS club to not only consult on this law but also to advise the Minister to withdraw the law from the debate, since it is not a respected article. 11. The law on the right to access information that says public consultation must take 30 days, and this law has been withdrawn from public debate and public consultation and counselling, which was first laid down for 15 days short for five days. This gave no opportunity to all interested parties, all those entrepreneurs who were here and waiting for the law and had objections to this bill to make their remarks. There is an impression when he felt a tone of remarks that initially arrived to feel and anger of entrepreneurs and simply that counseling was interrupted. So it's completely incomprehensible why it was done, it wasn't law-abiding, and here we suggest you pull it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57369	Thank you, of course, for the break and for Article 293b. We'll continue the debate. Replica now, we begin with replicas, first Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57370	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you mentioned that the purpose of mandatory membership was to keep the chamber from any political influence of any political stakeholders in Croatian society. So it definitely didn't happen in HGK. I think that everyone sitting here more or less knows that she has always been under HDZ patronate from Vidosevic to Burilovic, but not connected to it, but I'm interested in something else. You're coming from the academic community, why you let two I'm going to say procedurally large mistakes in the adoption of this law. The first is the one that Mariana mentioned to you, and this is a reduction I don't understand why we should call it the Institute of Public Advisory, and the second one that may be even worse, I don't know if anyone noticed it, so you're going to be doing a fee, an ex post assessment of the effects of this law, so you haven't done it in advance, which is very dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57371	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57372	Thank you very much for your remarks to Mrs. Honorable Representative Puljak, so do you, Mr. Representative Hajdash Doncic. Therefore, the briefer public debate under this law was caused by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, as the legislator of this text, had committed itself to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament earlier than this year that this legislative proposal in the parliamentary debate would be before the end of the session, or this summer break. That's exactly the reason we had to shorten the public consultation procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57373	Mr. Zeljko Pavić, here's your replica, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57374	My dear secretary, you're probably aware that this law doesn't change anything, absolutely nothing. The membership fees you said you'd cancel didn't cancel them. Right? You said you said in the law that membership fees would not be paid by the poorest or the smallest users, the micro and this small entrepreneurs. However, their membership fee was 42 kunas, and they are not paid not to pay that membership fee. If they do not pay the membership fee you still remain, or the chamber remains 65% of the funds because these 10 and 6.7% of the members pay the membership fee of 35%. So the vast majority of membership fees remain, but you didn't say anything about quality. Don't talk about service quality, you didn't force this law chamber to do better to offer something new.../incomprehensible/... better, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57375	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57376	Dear Representative Pavic cannot agree with your opening thesis, since this legislative proposal clearly highlights the fact that there is no obligation to pay membership fees for over 96% and over 13,000 legal entities, respectively. The fact that the HGK in the next period, as you yourself stated in your presentation, will remain without 35% of its membership fees in itself is the strongest assumption of reorganising the work of the HGK, further reducing the number of employees, and ultimately all other rationalisations in, increasing the efficiency of their action. This is not something prescribed by law, however, it is clear that in the coming period, the HGK will, as well as until now, partially seek the absorption of European funds, cooperation with the economy and ultimately exercise public powers for which it will be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57377	Mrs. Mariana Puljak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57378	Honorable Minister, your answer to why the shortened public consultation is, and I'm not going to say funny, but actually scandalous. So it is not your fault to conclude the assembly when the law should be brought to a public debate but it is your ministry's fault that did not prepare the law in time. So, you can't send in a parliamentary procedure something that didn't work before that procedure. So from that assessment of the impact of the regulations to here's the public consultation that you initially defined 15 days to 17.7, and then you made it more clear that this could be done in a procedure. It's actually quite scandalous and unacceptable. And here's what I was going to say is that in this very reasoning of the law, you said it in the introduction, so you yourself admit that the chamber is currently inefficient, inefficient, yes. is also a purpose to itself. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57379	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57380	Allow the honourable MPs of Pulak to respond in several parts to your replicas. So, first of all, the fact that something changes assumes and the fact that it doesn't work optimally. And we recognized ultimately the fact that HGK has not functioned optimally in recent years or decades. As for your observations on the public consultation concept, bear in mind the fact that this is the first reading of the HGK Act, that we will have the opportunity to see the latter during the autumn and that all those interested in the work of the HGK, the chamber system in Croatia will have the opportunity to respond very agilely to their counter-proposals, critics whether positive, whether negative. If your only comment on this bill is the fact that the public consultation took a short or shorter time than was originally declared, then I think we've made a substantial guess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57381	Thank you. Mr. Dario Hrebac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57382	Dear Ministers, after 30 years, we have been given the opportunity to finally reform an economic chamber with which no one is satisfied. Now, we can deal with this administrative, technical matter now, or we'll deal with chamber reform. I've heard a lot of criticism now about how there is no reform at all, so I'm wondering if you have any information as to how many people have already left the Chamber of Commerce just because of the fact that the reforms are moving and just because they know they're going to be overnumbered in that same economic chamber, my information has been saying that it's over 250 people in the last few years, and especially since we started announcing that the Chamber of Commerce is going to reform itself. So, however, there is some reform, fewer people will have to work, have to work more efficiently, and fewer people will have to turn to the market because they will not simply have another means to survive on that same market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57383	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57384	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrebak. I will agree partly with your findings, and a small number of employees will certainly mean rationalising the increase in efficiency if a certain level of service is to be reached. As regards departure from the HGK, it should be borne in mind that the HGK is in the period from 2015 to '16, respectively. To date, about the number of employees from 560 came down to 384 people, that's the last piece of information I have. This in itself meant a significant reduction in the number of employees and rationalisation, however, it is obvious that there is more space. I will once again highlight the fact that a large part of our small and micro entrepreneurs saw this membership fee 42 kuna as being too large, too high, too excessive, parafiscal, for which they did not receive counterservice, and that is why we freed them from membership fees or payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57385	Thank you. Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57386	Dear Ministers, so I don't understand the grief of the opposition, they failed in destroying the institution, now they're hunting for administration, for administrative and technical matters, obviously the bill is of quality to them and good to them. And good is it compromises, gives the future of the 170th tradition of HGK, which also gives a lot of quality services and which also wants what we last discussed to become like the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. The second thing may be to explain to the opposition colleagues that both in the congregation and in the board of directors and supervisory boards are primarily to the economics. It is not at the assembly and the government to impose on them fellow Pavic anything, it is up to the government and the assembly to regulate, and this law will regulate 96% of the members will not pay membership fees, and also what you have pointed out, but this administration has reduced from almost 600 to 380 employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57387	Thank you very much. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57388	Thank you very much, Reverend Pavic. I'll agree with your thesis. Therefore, it is not on the Croatian government or HS as a legislator to influence the process of elections within the HGK, it is up to us to edit the legal framework, and HGK, as I pointed out in the opening part of the address, is a chamber that includes all legal entities in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore as members of the chamber, it is possible that within the body of the chamber the best possible solutions, including for the functioning of the chamber in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57389	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57390	Thank you. Dear Minister, what will happen to these 11 public powers that the HGK has such as issuing various certificates, keeping a register of real estate or a permanent arbitration tribunal, in what way will these obligations be fulfilled further?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57391	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57392	Thank you very much, very much, Mr. Jeckov, for your question. Therefore, as the HGK itself said performs a series of public powers, I believe that it is carrying out them successfully and in this context the functioning of the HGK should not be questioned. What is under consideration is, in fact, more public powers to be exercised by the HGK in the coming period. It should also be financed by the Authority of the State Administration or the Resor for which these public powers are exercised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57393	- Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57394	Dear Ministers, I am also afraid that it is a bit inconclusive thesis in the bill's proposal that the model of mandatory HGK membership ensures its political neutrality and independence. Well, you're really being denied by reality. We also know about Mr Vidosevic and Burilovic sitting in the front row or who was sitting with them in the front row, not to mention how connected it is, how it is possible that Mr Vidosevic under heavy suspicions since 11 November and 13 years passed. and eight months and no charges have been filed, so I would not say that our chamber is politically neutral and independent, and especially that it will be if it is mandatory membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57395	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57396	Thank you very much, well-respected representative Borić, for your comment, i.e. on the replica. Let me theoretically connect you to the concept of some other institutions. Their political, most often personal independence is achieved by financial independence, and financial independence has been generally posted with the HGK by compulsory membership. As for the people you mentioned or the former presidents of the chamber, I have not had the opportunity to meet Mr Vidosevic, Mr Burilovic, as president of the chamber. I have to admit, I wouldn't argue with them. As regards the appointment of the president of this chamber, as well as any other chamber in Croatia or any other institution in the system, that appointment is clearly prescribed by the Election Regulation. Don't start pulling parallels with some appointments in the City of Zagreb over the last few days, it wouldn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57397	- Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57398	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you are referring to the principle of solidarity, as well as the fact that part of European countries has kept a model of mandatory membership with which not only cannot be measured in economic strength and not even the arrangement of the support system of the economy, but you also do not want to take a credible example of our neighbouring Slovenia that introduced a model of voluntary membership for all not only for some, but the chamber has survived without any problems. The system operates on the principle of a free market economy and the price payment for the requested service. Col. Pavić also pointed out and told you that the chamber was left without, you said that the chamber was left without 35% of the income, but your colleague Pavić told you why he would not lose the amount simply because the membership fee, which freed the membership fee for at least 42 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57399	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57400	I thank you, honourable MP Nikolic, for your thesis. However, that last one is completely wrong for you. If you release a membership, it is he who decides whether to pay for membership or not. So, we freed 30% of the funds as a parafiscal charge paid to HGK from this release of membership. You and Mr. Pavic promote the wrong thesis that has no foothold in logic, but let me answer the other part of your question. As an example of a successful chamber, you could take the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which is mandatory, not Slovenian. The GDP per capital in Austria is slightly bigger than the one in Slovenia, so maybe you could go that way. The chamber system as such has its advantages, of course it has its shortcomings. We can speak from a completely liberal position that every businessman should seek his place under the sun for a completely independent deprivation of any association. However, in the small open economies of the global market, it is just as successful and not working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57401	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57402	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, after 30 years, we're getting a new law on the chamber. So, the old one's from '91. years of basic and there was one change. This chamber law that's under discussion is somehow forced by your coalition partner, but then. We got it right where we got it. I'm interested in one thing. So, the debate she had on the proposal of the MOST Club was based among other things on the fact that we try to consider that membership in the HGK so no one disputed the importance of the HGK, but that it was kind of academic. You have continued to decide on a provision that is an article if I am not mistaken in 19th, which says membership in the HGK remains mandatory. Why did you choose this mandatory membership model? Why didn't you think about trying after 30 years of stepping on which everyone said we needed it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57403	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57404	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dark Tarritate, for your replica. So, that contrary to the positions of the Club of Representatives of MOST and their proposals, we have decided to continue to make mandatory membership in HGK because we think that the chamber system and the HGK as an institution of such, first of all, such history that has for decades integrated shareholders into the Republic of Croatia in one place should continue. Negative, above all, media circumstances and in fact a kind of lynch that was created around the position of HGK several months ago and in the Croatian Parliament, as well as beyond, did not lead to the fact that the HGK would, in the event of academic membership, have given itself, seem to me to think that it would survive. On the idea of reform, the idea of a positive change, we are also building this bill, not on the idea of destroying institutions, which could possibly be achieved in this variant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57405	Thank you. Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57406	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I really think this law is needed at this point because you yourself said that a few months ago we really witnessed a kind of lynch compared to the HGK and created an impression in the public as if it were really a parasite organization that does nothing. So I think for another reading maybe more information on how much the chamber actually did in favour of the economy. In the economic chamber, a permanent arbitration court works, the center for calming down, it's really important things to prevent that large number of procedures that are in front of courts that would actually develop and one, a new culture of communication within economic operators, where we would not go to court but solve things by arbitration, things would work out at this peace centre. So I hope you make sure that these smaller incomes It doesn't matter that it won't affect it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57407	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57408	Thank you, well-respected representative Bošnjakovic, for your replica. Indeed, the public powers carried out by the HGK can be characterised as more than successful and precisely on the wave, or on the platform of these activities of the HGK in the coming period, with the necessary rationalisation as we have said and functional reorganisation which is missing part of the revenue, and we have also talked about it in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57409	Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, no one doubts that the HGK reform is necessary. On this trail is this law that you are proposing today in the Croatian Parliament, which literally releases 13,000 businessmen from membership. Of course, this will result in a reduction in revenues of around 35%, which will also target the chamber according to some other sources, perhaps a stronger communication and establish a link with the economies themselves, as well as European funds. You said public authorities wouldn't question you. But we know that the chamber, apart from public authority with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is working on economic diplomacy, opening up space for our businessmen in other countries, having its own offices, but the chamber is also the owner of one trade register that Croatia has with other countries. I wonder if in this sense something will change and whether she will be able to continue with this new view and a different chamber system with those activities she's been doing so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57411	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57412	Thank you, well-respected counsel Petyr. First of all, and at this clarification, we see the strength and importance of the HGK, not only for stakeholders or its members, but for the entire Croatian economy from statistics that you have cited through economic diplomacy, which today is an inevitable tool in promoting, above all, the trade in goods and exports of a country and its production. This is exactly where we see the strengthening of the HGK in the next period, especially in those markets that have been in the big expansion phase for the past 10 years. I believe that the next period will also take place at the moment when the HGK is consolidated with new circumstances and its step into new markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57413	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57414	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I would like to remind the public that the question now is why membership is mandatory. Membership is mandatory in most European countries, both in France and Spain and in Germany, Austria, Montenegro, etc., so I don't think this should be an obstacle and the reason why this law should not be supported. I think it will be much more important that the chamber strengthens it so much that it produces its services to provide entrepreneurs in the way it has done so far, and that it also co-finances exits to international fairs and domestic fairs, as well as to support them in achieving certain aspects of the opening of markets in other countries and in Europe at all in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57415	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57416	Thank you very much, well-respected representative Peric on your replica. Putting into the proportion of the number of countries where there is a mandatory membership system and those which do not exist are fully deplaced. Each country or every system in view of its functioning and its development certainly deserves to think about both. What we can definitely expect in Croatia from HGK in the next period and we need traditional tools from which some of you have mentioned such as the financing of exits to fairs or co-financing and promotion abroad, to be combined with new HGK steps, above all, in its activities to attract European funds. Of course, in cooperation with other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is a step that we expect and, of course, in the new service of HGK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57417	Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57418	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed Ministers of HGK is an organisation with a lengthy 170-year tradition, it is professional and business. The existing law is from 1991, which certainly requires changes, but also additions. The laws are made of course and changed and each new one brings something new, better quality and more modern, which will certainly be passed by this new Economic Chamber Act. We know that HGK organisations are divided territorially into county chambers, their wide range of actions. Personally, at my old job, I had excellent cooperation with my county chamber on the alignment of the timetables, which is certainly one big job doing the chambers. I am sure and of course we will transform our HGK by new law, that it will be an even more efficient service to all our economies. In your opinion, however, how quickly our HGK can transform itself and Croatian and county chambers, expand its beauty of services and, of course, be more functional.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57419	Thank you very much, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57420	Thank you very much for your replica, distinguished MP Maximchuk. The transformation is very fast when it is potentiated by the lack of financial resources. Let's face it, the fact that the HGK will lose some of its revenues in the coming period which have so far been unquestionable in themselves is the alarm that already, when presenting this proposal, the laws of the people of the HGK are considering both how and how this reduction of financial resources can be reached, both at the level of the county and at the level of the economic chambers and at the central level. This reorganisation must first of all assume and assume that it will assume the merger of certain functions at the level of the county chambers or central offices. We'll see which way it goes. I believe that step is possible. Partly he'll feel in reducing the number of people, and that's unquestionable. However, rationalisation in itself and carries such processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57421	Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57422	Honorable ministers, which is why discrimination against medium and large enterprises. So the 17th article of this bill of yours says that the HGK will support internationalisation and integration into global value chains. So in Croatia, if this is indeed the case, then I will ask you to tell the Croatian public what HGK has done, for example, in joining One Equity Partners and investing in Infobip, which, for example, has done in investing.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... what it has done for the opening of new markets to these two companies, for example, in the US and Europe, so that is question number one. And question number 2, why don't you tell the public that actually the membership fee of HGK is actually a tax because let's say these others who are going to have to pay a type 1,083, 3.973 kuna if a company doesn't pay it, the IRS sends a solution that there is a tax debt and that the company can't apply to So public procurement. [[Thank you very much.]] There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57423	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57424	Thank you very much, Mr. Troscott, for your replica. I will assume that your economic knowledge extends so far that you are able to distinguish membership fees in HGK from taxes that according to the RS tax system exist in our country. So then that second part of the answer here you take as my appeal if you're not, to study it, the economist you're a graduate of the Faculty of Economics unless I'm wrong. As regards the second part of your question, the functioning of the HGK or chamber system in Croatia at the promotion of the Croatian economy, the assistance of the Croatian economy abroad is something that happens continuously. The cases you've mentioned the most prominent cases in the past few years are certain they were far ahead of their time in response, I'm talking about stakeholders in these processes and that they're not requiring HGK assistance. If that's what you're asking for in response, I'm giving it to you. As regards HGK or placement in a negative position of medium or large, they are not put in a negative position. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57425	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57426	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, a 30% reduction in income from any organisation, businesses, entrepreneurs is a significant procedure and it will certainly entail a new adjustment once again, perhaps providing new HGK services, using and finding new sources of funding because the fact is that this is a huge reduction in revenue. And I therefore support this particular intensity, which is designed by Article 40, where it is said about the ex post impact assessment based on the evaluation, valorisation of work, the work of the chamber after this new law, and after that may go into further discharge. We will see how these two years as long as this article provides that we will carry out this impact assessment of the law itself as it is and in what way. Maybe after two years we'll go into further reform, further reorganisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57427	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57428	Dear Representative Bačić, I agree with your thesis, and it will actually take time to see what the effects of this new model of HGK function are, not only on the chamber and its functioning, but on the whole economy. Let us use time, evaluate these effects, and I believe that we will bring out from that evaluation, come up with certain conclusions for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57429	Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57430	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, why do you think this law will change the perception that the chamber is dealing with itself, that it is the purpose of how you state this reasoning of the law, that it is not in the function of the economics and members, that it is not political staffing, etc. You've speeded up the law, we've seen how short the public debate has been. There are many objections to the work of the HGK, to communication with members, to the leadership or to the number of durations of the term of office, the leadership has not been limited. So you will hardly change and reform the work and role of the chamber. If the law is passed because of perception, not to reform the HGK, to be functional and to help the economies, then it is really a question of what this law really will do to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57431	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57432	Dear Representative Maric, I would like to thank you first of all for your replica. The topics you have presented have been promoted in the Croatian public over the past months several times. Yeah, perception is one of the reasons for accessing these changes. The perception of the public or part of the public was such that micro and small entrepreneurs, precisely those paying membership fee 42 kunas, do not receive enough of their membership fee from the HGK or receive the counterservice they would deserve, that the HGK does not, with its diapazon services or services, touch them slightly less than the medium and large ones who generally do not complain about the functioning of the HGK. And in that context, the membership fee for this first group was in our focus in these amendments to the HGK Act. Is that perception going to change if you have a group that's been lying around all the time we don't pay anymore and we don't want to pay now with no pay? Now he's not paying, so we believe he will because HGK shouldn't bother them now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57433	Thank you. Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57434	Thank you. Dear Ministers, here I am interested when we approach the reform of institutions such as HGK which still has some 30 years of tradition behind it, ever since we are an independent state, I think it would be good just because of all the problems we've been talking about here, and that's the question of quality of services, but also the price of these services to make an external evaluation of such an institution and based on the conclusions of that evaluation to start preparing a new law. So we're talking about not just a question enough to solve the issue of compensation and payment to the HGK but also whether their services satisfy the needs of our entrepreneurs. We've never evaluated how familiar it is to me, or if you know it, you can tell us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57435	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57436	Thank you, well-respected representative Bencic, on your replica. A thorough evaluation, a systematic evaluation that would certainly take some time would be part of a process that would take some time. I will once again emphasise the fact that, in the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government was obliged until the summer break to release this bill and present it here in the Croatian Parliament. As far as the reform process itself is concerned, I believe that financial rationalisation or reduction of finance is very common in itself, if not in general, I don't know about the exceptions that went in the other direction, in the best way possible for the processes to be organized and functional structures of an institution or systems to shake and in some other way to be arranged. And in this particular case, I believe it will be. If not, if the future period shows that the results are not optimal, there is no reason not to approach again to change and thus show direction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57437	And the last replica of Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister Portal Telegram did a survey on a sample of 500 entrepreneurs from various dams in February 2021 and were devastating results. I'll be very brief, 86% against mandatory membership, 78% not satisfied with HGK's work, 60% almost estimated that there is no representation of members' interest in making changes to the law, a high percentage of 60-70% argues that there is no HGK's engagement around their various needs at all. So, and you've shortened the public hearing for about five or six days. Don't you think it's 30 years later that we don't have a new Economic Chamber Act except that it was necessary to respect the law that it was really necessary to provide a broad and public and professional debate of 30 days to really bring one quality law in this sense of change. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57439	Thank you very much. Answer. one quality law in this sense of change. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57441	Allow the respected MPs of Raukar Gamulin to in two parts respond to your replica. So, first I'm going to refer to the back part. So this bill will be in its final form in front of the Croatian Parliament sometime in September or October. So, we have three months for the Croatian public to be interested in all possible ways in considering this bill and ultimately it is referred to by both parliamentary representatives and representatives from individual parts of the country and through associations of different types. If you're asking me to comment on a survey conducted by a portal or research you said, please don't ask me to, don't ask me because you referred to it in the first part of your presentation. The first thing I should ask you is whether that sample is representative, and then on. But here's where you and I stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57442	Mr. Minister, you're relatively free for now. Here you go. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Zvonimir Troscott, who will speak for the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57443	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce says for itself on its official website. The site is an independent professional organisation that promotes, represents and coordinates the common interests of all its members in front of state and other bodies in Croatia and abroad. It should also find, therefore, our members of foreign partners for entrepreneurs who want to be export-oriented and thus help to go to foreign markets. And there's an immediate question here. If the principle role of this institution is so positive, why is it that most of its forced members, even among medium and large enterprises, still do not want to be obliged to this membership? Point 1 I would like to discuss here today is why discrimination against large and medium-sized enterprises if they do not want to be in the membership itself. So, Article 17, as I asked, says that Croatia's economies, Article 17(1), that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce supports internationalisation and integration into global value chains. So if this is indeed true, the minister himself answered Gideon Brothers, Roman cars, NanoBIT, Infobip, Q Agency, Microblink are all companies that have been present for more than 10 years on the Croatian market, but also other successful companies that have managed to profile themselves on foreign and most demanding markets with their knowledge and skills without any interference from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself. So they didn't find that new market. Two of them didn't find these venture capital funds that would actually capitalize these companies. They didn't go to negotiations with One Equity Partner, they didn't go to talk to... who then invested conjecturely, so Infobip and Gideon Brothers. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] If, therefore, according to the scope of the activities of the HGK, in Article 16 of all these companies, but also others that have come into operation are actually their internal departments and are not satisfied with this service that they do not even receive, then why would they pay compulsory membership fees regardless of what this new Bill Proposal is in the middle, category of medium and large enterprises? So the minister says it's just a 170-year tradition. One and the other called for it. There are other countries that have a long-term tradition, and therefore these proposals do not work on destructive settings and ideas, but simply improve the business of such an important institution within the Croatian economy. How is it best to see it? Well, through the indicators. The first is, say, goods exports through employees. So, during 2020, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce managed to reduce the number of employees to 419. Good, but not enough. And she managed to cut the marketing costs by 50%. Now they're at about 20 million. However, by comparing 9 European Union countries Estonia, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Belgium and France, Croatia still has the worst indicators in terms of exports per employee in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, where one Estonia creates a commodity export equal to Croatia with three times fewer inhabitants and where the Estonian Chamber of Commerce today has 30 employees in the Chamber of Commerce unlike ours where 419 employees are employed with 31. 12. 2020. I deliberately took these countries all that I listed because they were systems where they were mandatory and where they were, and therefore, university membership fees. The second indicator is, say, the number of employees per million inhabitants. So when we talk about the number of employees of the chamber per million inhabitants, then we can find that Slovenia has 55 coefficients, Estonia 24 employees in chambers, and the rest of the countries in the European Union have France 16 and Austria 90. Croatia has more than Austria. Now it is according to these indicators that an important and most interesting conclusion is being made in this area, which is that the most efficient chambers are exactly the ones in small countries such as Denmark, Slovenia, Finland and Estonia, where membership in chambers is not mandatory, but is entirely voluntary for all categories of companies. Let's move on. The efficiency of the chamber’s operations, for example, is an open office that costs at an annual level of 1 million euros and 7 and a half million kuna respectively. Corruption like that here isn't just bribery. Corruption in the broader sense of that word is, in fact, a measure of the efficiency of the public sector as being best seen in determining the way of employment, opening unnecessary agencies or, say, opening up an HGK office in countries where we have our own embassy, number one, and a department that deals within that economy neither less nor more with economic diplomacy. So, again unnecessary employment or employment without results that have no evaluation. We have HGH open office in Shanghai, okay, but in China we also have our own embassy and office dealing with economic diplomacy, which is as such responsible for the Department of Economic Affairs and Development Cooperation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When precovid exports are compared, I deliberately saw, in 2019 and 18, we have a decline in China to the second largest market or the world's largest market of 20%. Entrepreneurs, but all of them, regardless of which category of companies are asked the question, who will be responsible for the 20% drop in exports, will it be in a Shanghai office because it is actually the only task they have to do or will it be an office within the embassy itself in China that should do the same? However, at the end of the day the Shanghai Office and the general promotion of the Croatian economy are financed by mandatory membership fees and those large companies that must pay for it by those members. And since it's not a problem that Shanghai's office as such is already a work, responsibility for the result and the result as such. Yes, I studied economics, that I am both here and outside, and I understand both the tax and the parafiscal imposition, but it's not obvious to be a minister. Art. 31. The law and I purposely asked that question, the Chamber of Commerce Act is paid to the chamber under the law of the bill of law which we read here today, however, the member's entrepreneur pays the bill, but the control and payment is carried out and verified by the Tax Administration. Let's say as an entrepreneur I don't pay $1,083 kuna as in another group of entrepreneurship or 3,973 in the third group of large companies, the company from the Tax Administration gets a negative confirmation that there is a tax debt. So there's a certificate where by not paying a membership fee, the IRS gives you a tax ruling that there's a tax debt. And then what does membership have to do with the tax debt? Well, everyone asks, that's what I asked the question, so then there was the doctoring. In any case, when this company wants to enter the public procurement process, the company has to submit a confirmation, something similar to this vaccination today from the tax office that it doesn't have long. If the company has not paid membership fees, it is automatically disqualified as will be the vast majority of Croatian citizens in the public tender because it has a tax debt to the HGK. Public powers, Art. 11. The proposal for a law on HGK states that the chamber is operated by the centres of calming the permanent arbitration court and the Court of Honor and the fact is that certain public powers have been transferred to the HGK in the form of an arbitration court and a peace centre. However, the fact that, as such, the HGK can not be an exclusive market entity simply does not drink water. The first reason is that the HGK can function without these bodies that I listed because they themselves removed these bodies during the crown in the 10th month of 2020. And I quote Mr Burilovich because there were no financial resources because, for example, the Court of Honor was financially unsustainable. And it is questionable how many members of the Chamber of Public Authorities themselves are asked by the HGK when it is known that in the case of serious misunderstandings or problems between companies there is commercial law and commercial courts. The government's argument does not stand so much that it would mean that everyone should then be members of a police, judicial or teaching chamber because there are courts, police and schools with public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57444	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57445	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. If the chamber of the last 20 years had functioned normally and had not actually been under the buds of HDZ who created from that chamber a public authority institution, but which is problematic to me today might not have talked here at all because if we were looking at the essence of the association, he mentioned something Mr. Ćorić, so in this part of Europe there is actually this public legal model here, there is a mandatory membership and it might not be bad at all, it might not be bad at all, but still because of this hell of perception, and all of Croatia unfortunately in perception and destruction of institutions has proved to be not good at all. And what exactly do we have here today? We do not have a law that essentially tries to reform an institution that is of some kind of Croatian economic heritage, which has dozens of valuable properties in Croatia, which has something to say, a historical and intellectual heritage that could work much better than it does. But someone destroyed it, someone created that perception in public. And then we have 2020-2021, so the third attempt to remind you, the third attempt to reform the chamber. The first is now perhaps the current HSLS representative remembers either at the time of the SDP and HSLS government in 2007-2008 or something even... with HDZ it was already irrelevant, meaning where you tried to reform it so the crisis came and you didn't, and then you arrested Vidosevic and then you tried reforming the chamber again and it didn't reform. Now here you are again and what your coalition partner is doing let's do something like we're doing something. You're actually doing what? You're cutting off one piece of membership, nothing else. So there's no such thing as a fundamental no idea of change, changes that will have some kind of... that the chamber will now evaluate something, that the entrepreneurs themselves will say ok we're fine if we go, I have no idea in Moscow to some set that we've increased the export of parquets, no matter what I'm talking about right now. So it's not in that law. It is a simple administration and satisfaction of probably a minority coalition partner. I repeat, therefore, redefine the role of the chamber that even there should be no mandatory membership on paper yes or no can be discussed, and this should be a fundamental document that has passed a broad public debate. Because let me remind you, I will also remind Mr. Coric that a public debate is possible before the second reading. It is very, very rarely used and has been applied very, very rarely so far. And then you've got what I'm talking about, that's what someone said. Well, we're supposed to have some sort of impact assessment of what's going to happen with that law. It says here on the first page of the argument that it will work later. So, you do something and you have time. You have time. You've had how much? Three months, four months when we talk about it. You had time to prepare it much better and actually have some sort of essential time for a good transformation. So from what I'm saying, there's no need to waste your time or mine or yours. So we won't support it. I'm sure we won't support that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57446	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Daniel Spajic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57447	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Recently, the finance minister sladfully boasted to the Croatian regiment that Croatia would, of course, grow at rates of 5% to 6% per year next year if everything was okay with tourism. What he failed to highlight is the fact that in 2020 the fall of Croatia's GDP was recorded in the European Union, so we will hardly exceed the 2019 GDP at the end of 2022. So three more lost years for the economic development of Croatia as well as those of the past 20 years. Even the government's strategy in the opening section clearly states that the Republic of Croatia was one of the most developed in Central and Eastern Europe in the early century while today we are struggling with Bulgaria for the last place by economic development. One of the culprits for these catastrophic economic trends that later turned into even worse demographic trends is the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The biggest damage done to Croatia by the HGK is not the budget they spent through wages, travel, corruption and a variety of bananas, but a missed opportunity and a contribution that had to be made to Croatia's economic development. The HGK also served the rulings as a means of further destroying the Republic of Croatia because they had shelters in the HGK to imprison their personnel. For a number of reasons, the situation in the HGK is unsustainable and needs to be changed urgently as stated in the HGK Bill's proposal, the current law is in force for no more than 30 years, nor is it sufficient to encourage the urgent and concrete amendment of the inherited system which is not in any way adapted to the current economy, and in particular to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 49, the declared foundations of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, which are both entrepreneurial and market freedom. The proposer of this Act himself states that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce advocates the mandatory membership model, because in this way it ensures, observe this, its political neutrality and independence and that the analysis has shown that membership in the Chamber ensures entrepreneurs to use a number of services and achieve goals that could not be achieved independently without institutional support of the Chamber, which is used by the principle of solidarity. And then there was a swing and he wrapped chocolate in paper after this sentence. The fact is that the current president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is also a member of the current ruling party, as well as a member of the Supervisory Board of INA, Podravka, Badel and what information is available from the public register. Is the very fact that a person authorised to represent the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has an interest in those companies does not question incompatibility with the declared political neutrality and independence. The fact is that the main economist of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is also a special adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on economic issues without employment. Can we really talk about political neutrality in the order of all these things? We find such functions incompatible. The legislator cites the principle of solidarity and calls for the fact that part of European countries has retained the mandatory membership model. It is but only 8 countries that are Austria, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain. So we're talking about only 8 countries, with which it's almost impossible to pull any parallels in terms of economic strength and regulation of the economic support system. However, there is no mention of the introduction of a model of voluntary membership in neighbouring Slovenia and that the system works much better, because it operates precisely on the principle of market freedom, economy and price payments for the requested service. When we speak in solidarity, there is a question of justness of the criteria for dividing economic operators into three categories depending on their economic strength and the issue of huge differences in the prescribed amounts of compulsory membership. The second group has a mathematically 4 times more economic power than the first group. However, he pays a membership fee that is 25 times higher than the first group membership fee. During the debate on amending the Law, many comments focused on paying the lowest membership fee. Well, no, gentlemen, it's not about paying 42 kuna a month, but it's about the fact that for the amount paid, these entities don't get declared access to information and services, and that's exactly why they insist on a system of volunteering in the chamber. When the amount of compulsory membership fees is added, the other charges are indeed questionable whether the country's goal is to stimulate the economy and entrepreneurship or a prioritization of discrimination? The basic reason for advocating mandatory membership is stated in the public legal nature of the chamber. So we're asking a question. Did the business analysis show that the chamber really acted in the public interest with its objectives and prescribed actions? And is such action above the individual interests of individual members as well as in what particular way are members protected? The proposed amendment to the Law of Article 39, which is contained in the transitional and final provisions of a given category of membership of the 1st group, leaves a period of 30 days from the date of entry into force of the law within which those entities must declare whether they wish to use the possibility of membership without payment of the membership fee. It is unclear to whom and in what form they must be declared and how entities that are yet to be registered in the court register will act. If they take advantage of this possibility of membership without paying the membership fee, any use of the service will be charged to them at a valid price list. Therefore, these members will be treated according to the principle of market economy and their rights and interests will be protected when they pay for the service. So the chamber will not treat everyone equally, but rather a certain category of membership will condition the use of the law guaranteed rights and services by paying them, and bearing in mind the principle that ignorance of the rules does not excuse the fact that no one knew about that 30-day deadline will help anyone. In addition, it is important to note in this particular place that the fee chamber does not issue an account. The proposed amendment to the Law introduces very few changes on how to choose an internal functioning body. The chamber remains closed and non-transparent. Members of the Economic Council and members of the Assembly shall not be elected, but shall be appointed as similar candidates confirming their decisions without question. It is exactly how the HGK leadership is chosen and how the institution is managed the main reason for all the problems we are talking about. One of the possible role models is much closer to us than those countries is that the colleague Troscott said it could be Estonia whose Economic Development Agency is one of the key reasons for major economic growth and jumping into competition in 31st place, while Croatia is reminded of 63rd place. The agency has a budget of 91m euros. It has representations in 17 countries and concrete objectives whose implementation is checked at a quarterly level. The objectives are related to the growth of the economy in the following areas: economic growth and growth in innovation, export growth, foreign investment growth in the country, attracting foreign talent and tourism growth. In each category, concrete and measurable objectives are set, and objectives are realised and supervised by the management and supervisory board, which are composed of entrepreneurs and representatives of the authorities. We can talk about good world practices for a long time, but these examples do not want to be considered or followed, because for many years the HGK has been an ATM and a storage facility for party arrests. It's just one but very important segment of the mosaic of our economic setback. The domestic movement cannot support such a proposal to amend the law because it is not aimed at solving the real problems in the HGK, nor is the intensity of the HGK created by one of the stoppers of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. This way, with the cosmetic alibi changes necessary for the dying public of the HGK will remain, unfortunately, what it has been so far. As the HGK advocates the work of entrepreneurs, how it protects entrepreneurs best says that Croatia is the country with the largest share of GDP in Europe. It's only in communist countries. It's nowhere else where the free market is. It all shows how much the HGK is worth to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57448	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice, and will be spoken by the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57449	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the first current morning in this term of Parliament and my first current morning, I asked the Prime Minister a very decent question when the government will begin to abolish mandatory membership or membership of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the tourist communities. Then instead of a decent answer, if we're going to cancel, we won't, or we're going to end it then, and then I got... He's attacking the Prime Minister because apparently these questions are very annoying for him. [[You don't understand.]] So, he is deeply irritated by the suggestions that some of the prominent institutions in this country whose members wonder what it is for to move on to voluntary membership. So, not to abolish the institution, but to make membership voluntary. Here I will now read about the Chamber of Commerce and present the results of the research published on a portal which the minister here said were unrepresentative or insinuated that they might be unrepresentative, which was actually done by the Agency that deals with market research on a sample of 500 entrepreneurs, members of the Chamber of Commerce from different activities and categories, so on one representative sample. And what do the results say? So, even 82.4% said they wouldn't pay HGK membership fees in case the obligation was lifted, and only 17.6% would continue to pay the membership fee. As regards the assessment of the quality of work, 77.4% of subjects were not at all satisfied or not satisfied with the HGK's work, suggesting that the HGK would not have survived in this form if there was no mandatory membership fee. This research was also important because it shows and points to what we have been warning for a long time that entrepreneurs who are members of this institution and finance it do not feel that it is benefiting from doing business already serves themselves, we have already said this several and countless times, so it serves itself, the party who is in power to retain power and to use this institution for employment-like jobs and well-paid jobs. 86.8% of those who pay the HGK membership fee believe that membership should not be mandatory and such a high percentage dissatisfied with the work of any institution in any system or state could not be tolerated unless the institution serves the ruling ones. So the key research findings are a fundamental problem not understanding the roles and services of the Chamber of Commerce, engagement does not recognize two thirds of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have no contact with the Chamber of Commerce, even 91% does not know who to turn to at all in that chamber, 87% of all HGK have never contacted, only 7% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have ever spoken to HGK. The reason for the address is to address urgent problems that are not part of the business daily, and almost no one is talking to the HGK to improve business. The amount of membership fee is not perceived at all as a problem, but rather as a key problem is the value of the services, so the quote of the respondents here says, "if there is no relationship any price is too high". So, it's not 42 kunas but if you get anything for those 42, three kunas. Therefore, in order to increase value and justify its purpose, the Chamber of Commerce should increase the knowledge of services through interaction with entrepreneurs, primarily improve the understanding of business consulting services and representation and adapt to the needs of activities. So, those accusations that we received from the opposition that we were destroying an institution like the HGK here in this study show quite clearly that the institution had already collapsed on its own, in fact the party that manages it with its parapolitical influence. When it comes to any strategic development of the HGK 2017-2022 which is still in force, it is therefore evident from this strategy that no strategic objectives set before the HGK are met. The government itself has minimalised the role of the chamber by developing a series of parallel institutions that have performed and assumed the role of the chamber, for example. Hamag-Bricro. If more than 51% of users of any company or institution's services believed that the company did not receive any support, it would have collapsed very quickly on the market. Such unhealthy subjects fail everywhere in the world except in a country that has artificially protected and maintained a system in which citizens do not trust. Here we now have a law in front of us, which is what I said in the search for a break and in the replica, so he did not follow the legal procedure on public consultation. The minister says, well, we were in a hurry to conclude the Parliament that said the law had to come before summer, and that is why we rushed and shortened public consultation. So it's not the Minister's conclusion that the Parliament is guilty, it's you and your ministry that you didn't start on time. So we got the law that has here when you count all 12 pages, of those 12 pages almost 10, 11 as in the previous law. So it took four months for the ministry to write a law with one new page of text, so four months. I say, here's the Act of Access to Information Art. The 11th public consultation must take 30 days, we got five days, and in those five days two people managed to make some 25 remarks, and when it was seen how they were going in which direction these remarks were going, none of them were accepted, some of them received notice, here it was said to cut it short for five days, and here we will stop all these remarks. Secondly, this first reading is actually completely incomprehensible and subject to various interpretations. Here I am, in reading the law itself, consulting with various people, I don't know three, four people give three, four interpretations in which direction this law goes. So, who is responsible for the suspension of membership is this the HGK Assembly or does this law prescribe the abolition? So, it doesn't seem clear to me that the article on the 30th, 31st, 32s is somehow being called to each other, and it's not quite clear who is actually who whose authority is it, so can the congregation decide to abolish the HGK Assembly to cancel membership? Why isn't membership being lifted for everyone? Other than that in Art. 39 members must apply for the release of a membership fee 30 days from the adoption of this law. So is it an obligation for everyone or is it just until the end of this year? Then will they be freed permanently? What if they miss that deadline? What if new legal entities appear with them, do they have to apply each time for the suspension of membership? So these are things that are unclear from this bill and I say here's the thing with all the people I've consulted with each of them has some interpretation of it. So that should certainly be explained. What I want to say in the end is that we are in favour of abolishing mandatory membership, not membership, but membership in the HGK. Therefore, in fact, a single amendment or a proposal that needs to be implemented here for change would be that in Article 4, this membership, which is defined as mandatory, says here: “Membership in the chamber is mandatory for all legal persons” that membership should actually be changed voluntarily for all legal persons. So whoever wants to use the services of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is free to apply for its membership and then pay and use all services to a full extent. So here's to the end of this bill we certainly won't support not just for formal reasons how someone wanted to impute here that formal reasons are now important. They're important. Therefore, it is not possible for all those interested parties who wish to make comments on this law to be able to do so. But this bill of law, too, is said to be rather vague, subject to different interpretations, and what we advocate is the abolition of mandatory membership in the chamber itself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57450	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDSS, and a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57451	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Reading this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I was returned with the unfavorable winter scenes with the collapse of the quorum and the media bickering that ended with the adoption of the conclusion, which was given to the Government or the Ministry to propose within 6 months to the Parliament a reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The most controversial thing in those days was not the level of mandatory membership fee of 42 kuna per month, but the issue of what is specifically obtained from the HGK and whether it has become its own purpose. The common conclusion was that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce can work better, that it can be more useful, better and accessible to economic operators, and that these 42 kunas are monthly in times of difficult economic conditions only trigger for changes. This is not the first time a mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has been spoken of. Some political ideas were born before and in 2008 very seriously talked about it in order to happen, but then the economic crisis and recession occurred, and somehow the topic was put to the chase. So today, after 30 years in front of us, a new proposal on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and it is not out of the question that our legislator decided on the so-called so-called 30 years ago. a public-law continental model that draws its roots from medieval cevasive associations and such a chamber model marks the obligation of membership and regulation of the work of the chamber at national law level and is in fact this model is the most characteristic for the area of continental Europe. Even 9 European Union countries have mandatory membership in economic chambers. It seems to me that one of my colleagues has already counted them all. Some of these countries are Croatia's most important trading partners in exports. Even 6 has mandatory membership in economic chambers. In the event of the adoption of this Bill, we will be classified in this particular combined model or combination of the public continental model and the private legal Anglo-Saxon model because, in this case, the chambers are therefore established by national legislation, although they operate according to the model of voluntary membership. As we've heard, the government has committed itself to making it to 15. 07. submit a bill aimed at ensuring the reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in a functional and material sense and further discharging Croatian businessmen and empowering their market position. The most important paper adopted by the proposed law concerns the application of the membership model according to which members are classified as three groups. Of course, everything you should have said was Mr. Minister. Thus, according to this new Bill of Law, the members of the 1st group will not have the obligation to pay membership fees, but will pay the special services and products to HGK at the price list of special services and products. It just remained unclear and did not indicate which services they would be and which they should actually offer in that transitional year after the adoption of the Law. The first group of members so far paid membership fees of 42 kuna per month for which it had the right to use most of the services unlimited: databases, legal information, logistics, lobbying, marketing services, search for partners on foreign markets, organisation of business meetings, consulting services, etc. It should be said that during the past period a significant part of the HGK member was released from payment of membership fees. Newly founded companies last year were preceded by 32,000 264, while more than 22,000 additional members were released from membership as part of measures to mitigate the damage caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. It is, of course, temporary suspension of payment of membership fees for business entities based in the area affected by earthquakes which have been prevented from doing business on a regular basis, which is also completely understandable. However, the members of Groups 2 and 3 remain in the mandatory membership fee regime, with each member group setting each year's Assembly of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by special decision, while so far they have paid a thousand 83 kuna or 3 thousand 973 kuna per month. What I fear is the fact that the exemption from payment of a membership fee of 42 kunas or 500 kunas per year for micro and small entrepreneurs will not have too much positive impact on their business and will certainly not become more competitive since that amount has not been a significant burden so far. This law would also abolish the obligation to pay membership fees, but there remains the possibility of voluntary remuneration and payment per price list of special services and products, so I am asked how much these services will cost and how much more will it cost than an average of 42 kuna or will micro and small entrepreneurs be able to afford them now? If the HGK’s revenues were achieved on the market in the fullest sense, then the services it provides would also have to be at market prices and would thus become inaccessible to many who may be using them today. It may be necessary to see the consequences of abolishing mandatory memberships in some neighbouring countries. So we have examples of countries where compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce has been abolished, and given the many negative consequences that this decision has had for the economy, mandatory membership has been returned to provide stronger support to the economy. All in all, the HGK had to experience reform, but the question was whether the problem was only mandatory membership. 30 years is long enough to assess whether something is good or not, whether it's functional or not. These changes must awaken the leadership of the HGK and position it as a leading service for entrepreneurs in all respects because now the HGK will in some way fight for entrepreneurs on the market at the same time be affordable to entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57452	The next club of MPs will be that of HSLS and Reformers, and the respected representative Dario Hrebak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57453	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honored Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. HGK is one of the oldest institutions of the Croatian state, we heard 180 years old, the last 30 years of numerous affairs have been tied to HGK and it has been a symbol for the Croatian public of art, nerada, nepotism, and, unfortunately, it is now subject to research by various institutions. All these 30 years from the chamber, most entrepreneurs had little or no use, and they all had to pay membership fees. For years, the ruling both left and right governments promised reform and nothing. What is crucial is that today we can influence it and that the reform is right on the parliamentary benches ahead of us. Today we will discuss the first reading of this law and I know that things will probably not be perfect, as we could hear through the debate so far and that the law can certainly be further improved, which we will probably all do through public debate, through right here debate in HS and I am aware, and I will personally listen to all the good suggestions and try to make some contribution as a Parliamentarian to make an even better law on reading in September. The issue of abolishing mandatory membership payments has always been an issue before each election that has been offered on the political menus of many parties, but nothing has ever happened in terms of the reform itself and the amendments to the law. I stress that HSLS has never been in favour of abolishing this institution, but we have insisted for at least 20 years on a thorough reform and abolishing mandatory membership. When in HS a few months ago, together with our partners, we launched an initiative on the reform of the chamber, we did it because of our sincere desire to reform the chamber after 30 years and we did not want to succumb to the political populistism of the parties whom this topic exclusively served to capture political points. The proof that I am right today is that these representatives who at that time personally insulted me today are gone, so much about how important the HGK reform was to them at that time when today when this law did not come here in HS at least express dissent with this bill, they didn't care. They didn't care then, they didn't care today, but that's why they knew then to use it to catch their usual populist points. I hear today is also a grudge for colleagues of Hajdas Doncic and other colleagues related to administration, related to public consultation, why we are up to 15.7., why this has not been done yet in counseling, but gentlemen of hypocrites it is not your problem that three months ago we should have changed the whole law in one day, with one sentence without any advice. So much for democracy and democratic processes and procedures. So, in one day, we needed to change everything completely, and why don't you say why there was no public consultation at the time? After 30 years today we have the opportunity to fully reform the HGK. A colleague said, there's nothing about quality and improvement of function, so should the quality of the law be achieved? Quality can be achieved by reforming the HGK, telling them you have so much money, 35% of the resources are less so you have to cut yourself, you have to be better, faster, more efficient, more digitized, otherwise you won't be able to survive like you can't survive maybe even some companies, so you'll have to share the fate of those you should worry about, and that's just fine. Today we have a legal proposal, a few months ago I was personally verbally offended by the same colleagues in the opposition,.../The speaker does not understand. I see we don't have them today, just because as a party we wanted to sit down together with our partners calmly, soberly, and agree that after 30 years we should go into this reform. Many people know how to crash especially when they are in opposition because they have no responsibility, but building a society in liberal democracy is not easy, it's often painful, it comes to misunderstanding of the environment, but from building society and its institutions HSLS will certainly never give up. Our goal was never to bring down the HGK and today our goal is to reform the HGK. Unfortunately, in a public parliamentary debate, as I have already said, a lot of cheap and irrational pulsism could be heard, and a little responsible approach could be seen. And I'd like to say that even today in the debate, we're much more based not on catching some political points than we are on really getting involved and that after 30 years, we're literally changing. One of the points of criticism concerns mandatory membership in the chamber, in this sense it should be first pointed out that, on the basis of this, as well as a number of other specific laws, the HGK performs a number of public tasks and powers, as we have already heard, and has the status of representatives of its members with regard to state and other bodies abroad. Today we have before us a law that, after 30 years of talking, concretely reformes the HGK and abolishs the obligation to pay membership fees for 96% of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, 96%. Someone's gonna say it, but why isn't it 100%? I don't know, after 30 years as a liberal, as a person who cares about the adoption of this law, I'm satisfied with 96% because we'll never be able to reach such a consensus that we're all absolutely satisfied. We have coalition partners consisting of both HDZ and minority clubs, and reformists, both the CNS and other parties, and all together only agreed together by compromise that this is the only rational common sense solution and will never, if it really wants to be reformed, and if it really wants to achieve something, we will never all be satisfied, but it is crucial that after 30 years someone tackles all this problem. And that's why I'm proud that what HSLS was looking for was what we talked to our coalition partners about, and we insisted that we end up delivering it to our voters. Someone doesn't like it, someone doesn't like this pragmatic model, but I personally am such a politician that every day I always have what it takes to agree to do it, not just talk, philosophy, that years go by and nothing happens after all. Of course, there will always be those who criticize, there will be those who will say forever when something is not golded because it is not silver, but it will always be against everything, such as do not build society, such as always break it up. The truth always comes out, now we see things changing, three months ago I was practically personally crucified on the cross, we saw how hard it is when power and responsibility are taken over, we have no problems with HSLS, but when things in the campaign promise it's always easy, but changing something isn't that simple. In any case, the HGK will reform itself, improve as an institution, and thus improve it will certainly benefit its members, it will have to turn to the market, it is inevitable, after the suspension of the mandatory payment of membership fees, but it should be, it should share fate with all those it represents, with its entrepreneurs, it will have to deal with them more, it will have to deal with its members or their members, so entrepreneurs will punish them for it. This law will get our support, we will vote for it if I repeat, it abolishes the mandatory payment of membership fee for 96% of entrepreneurs in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57454	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and Rada Boric will speak to a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57455	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. 10,814 days or 29 years 7 months and 9 days have passed since the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia adopted meetings of the Council of Joint Works, the Council of municipalities and the Social Political Council on 4 December '91. HGK law. Therefore, the great responsibility of both the Government and the Parliament and the ruling coalition and coalitions over the past 30 years towards the outcomes of such a 30-year-old cemented law, as well as the answer to the question whether we are now introducing only certain changes in the system quotes "as the Government states in the proposal or indeed it is time for deep changes in the functioning of the HGK". It seems that no matter what otherwise he wanted to show Mr. Hrebac that we are about to get a cosmetic change again because the government is only calling for two goals, according to the Government's first goal of passing this law is to quote "adjusting new trends in the economy", with the second aim of quoting "coordination of expressions of terminology according to nomotechnical guidelines". How unambitious if you want to, except it's formal, it's even just accusing. Under this legislative proposal, the government acknowledges that new trends in the economy and in new terminology barely know anything else in this long 30-year period that it was not worth changing. Once again, I must say that exactly the inconclusive thesis of the Government from its proposal to ensure its political neutrality and independence by the model of mandatory HGK membership. Well, really, you're kidding. The reality has denied it and we have witnessed whoever has ever seen Mr. Vidosevic and Mr. Burilovic sit in the front row at all congresses of the party, and of course we have seen how some of the processes last towards Mr. Vidosevic. But the government's thanks for the successes of the HGK seems indeed an insult to all who have paid a chamber contribution regularly for 30 years, and while the self-grate continues with the words, I quote, the analyses have shown that membership in the chamber assures entrepreneurs to use a number of services and achieve goals that could not be achieved independently without institutional support of the chamber. This is where the minister dared to say that what kind of research it is, and here the nice government speaks analysis has shown, so what analysis. What research can you show, colleague Raukar said, but a colleague of Pulak later added that Telegram did research as a magazine he did not do it as a journalist and journalistic research. That was the agency, my colleague Pulak told me so check out Massmi Adriatica, so someone who's been doing market research for years. And these 500 entrepreneurs so come as Government and tell which analysis the chamber itself has been doing and the evaluation of its own services and the satisfaction of the chamber members with the services which the chamber, which the chamber provides. Your colleagues are already here and listed what it means to you if 86.8% of your entrepreneurs are against mandatory membership. Yes, we're going to give it now that 96% doesn't have to pay it, but the fact that they're paying for it and it's not our generous decision here, but it's probably the result of someone being aware, which means such dissatisfaction. If a huge percentage of entrepreneurs from 54% to 93% claim that there is no engagement of the HGK around, I will tell you what, so it should be the reform of the chamber, facilitating access to funding through education and individual consultation, lobbying and providing support for new markets, promoting research, developing innovation, establishing new and transforming existing companies. You'll say it's not in the chamber's jurisdiction, so you want to modernise something in 30 years. So they say encouraging the development of technological infrastructure and better informing the economy. Like what? Yes, the Chamber of Commerce could be that heart that would inform our economy if I didn't already know who informs us of our judiciary. 87 entrepreneurs claim that no one, as stated by their colleague Puljak, has ever contacted them in the last year, has, of course, been related to research and 93 has said that never knowing that they can't get anything in the chamber did not even ask for help. Of course for information we are always whether one side and the other side are responsible and do not ask for help someone would say so they themselves are guilty of not asking the chamber, so what experiences some others have if the results on both sides are equal. And here's what the government says in its bill of law. It shows from the above that by developing its activities and designing services and products in the past, the chamber has become a serious partner to all members and is as such ready to support entrepreneurs in their growth and positioning on the market. Behind the chamber are numerous successes. It's a quote. All the worse they were suggesting, what they needed from encouraging research to support the development of technological infrastructure, the government dares to say that this shows that the chamber has been developing activities, designing services and products in the past. Well, if she had been developing them in that time, then surely she wouldn't have gotten that much in the end, and we decided she wouldn't be a mandatory, mandatory chamber force. Okay, and we agree, and we're in favour of strengthening institutions, but this should only be the first step to start a deep reform, and we've seen here that this step has come about because of the pressure of a coalition partner. And thanks to him for having her after all, some kind of power. Of course, as a green-left club we also welcome the fact that this is exactly what introduces the possibility of membership without payment, but it is also conditional. Therefore, for those covering the most numerous part of the membership of those 96%, these are companies with a total activity of less than 7.5 million kuna, with a total income of less than 15 million kuna and less than 50 employees. So we've limited that, too. But we agree that this should only be the first step, but then that first step is not done with such a coercion regarding the kind of political positioning, no matter how anyone starts the story. For 30 years things haven't changed, you've given five days for a public hearing. So will tomorrow at the proposal of some other law also give us as citizens of this country that we have exactly five days to see what we think of some extremely important laws. If the HGK does not succeed as well as the HOK that needs to be discussed, designed, firstly self-remained from political influence and improve the quality of services, the solution should not be required to increase the number of public powers that someone can give to those chambers or their direct funding then from the state budget because if we do not, they will not receive funds from, of course, the membership fee will have to help because they will be in the interest of having a chamber. On the contrary, it is the right way to take public powers away from the HGK and the HOK and to transfer these powers to other public authorities that may be better able to do so. But hopefully this process we started won't last 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57456	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ representative club will support the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Act. Before I say a few words about the law itself, I would agree with the conclusion of Mr. Hrebak who, who remembered that on February 5th in HS we voted on a proposal to amend and supplement the HGK Act which he was, and then I was saying the same thing, on... a way of reckless, unthinkable, motion to amend the law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which consisted in an article with one sentence and I can understand that the opposition in the debate itself spoke of the need to reorganise the HGK, that the opposition spoke of the need for a new law, but that the opposition had voted as little in the past year in voting on this one reckless, unsuspecting act,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 11 months since this assembly of parliament was established with 65 votes, about something that is not even like the law, I must say, unacceptable now in the context of this debate because it is disputed, this law contests for 5 days, only 5 days of public debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree that five days is little, that the law on consultation with the interested public said... I therefore think that the Government and the Ministry should find another reading which will be in the autumn way for entrepreneurs to be involved in this Law, all interested in making further suggestions to the better quality of the text of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's unacceptable for me to be able to support one sentence that would essentially solve or not solve HGK status, and here, in one whole, quality, good law, it's polarized in this way, so that's absolutely out of line with one another. The second thing I would like to say is that, that the Chamber itself, which has almost 170 years of its own tradition, is something, an institution that is on similar grounds, and in more developed countries of strong economies such as France, Germany and Austria, where it is also a mandatory membership for entrepreneurs there, and I believe that the Chamber has launched certain initiatives in the past 5 years, certainly to agree that most significant number of Croatian entrepreneurs are not satisfied with the work of the Chamber, and I think that this proposal of the Law makes us enter into a certain, reform or reustration, reorganization of the Chamber itself. So I would remind you that, in the last 5 years, the Chamber has carried out certain reforms through its HGK Development Strategy until 2022, certain steps, which are marked to a significant extent to reduce the number of employees and almost 300 fewer employees in the Chamber compared to 2014, which nevertheless says that the Chamber is of one massive dispute of the institution, is slowly adapting to today's market conditions, speeds, activities, reactions, etc., so that, except except for the reduction of the number of employees, there is talk of digitisation, internationalisation of business, introduction of a dual system of education, takeover and management of the Court Register, etc., etc. It is not necessary to interfere here with the mind that other than the transactions provided for by the Law in Article 1(1) of the Law. 16 and 17 which are the activities of the Chamber, there are 11 significant public powers that the Chamber is working on, that I do not now count them, I do not have enough time, but these are extremely important public powers which the Chamber as an institution, organises and enables, clearly, the business of its members or members. The chamber, too, reacted at the beginning of the corona of the crisis in a way that freed the membership fee, reduced the membership fee, etc., and so that in that part of the Chamber it did react well. To return now to the law that is before us. So, this Law, most importantly, abolishs membership fees for over 95% of entrepreneurs and millions of them and 334 thousand almost, which pay 504 kuna annually at the Chamber's level of income of around 67 million kuna. According to the 2019 data, which means that if we know from the Chamber of Commerce Report that membership is more than 70% of the total income of the Chamber itself, this proposal leaves the Chamber of Law without 30% of the total income. That's very important. For any debate on this law, the fact is that the Chamber is practically subtracting 30% of the total income. So here it should be said that these are entrepreneurs whose assets do not exceed 7.5 million kuna, who do not, have less than 15 million kuna per year, have fewer than 50 employees. Another group is, say, medium-sized entrepreneurs who have to meet, who go beyond 2 out of those 3 criteria that I just said, but their assets do not exceed 30 million, the total incomes of 60 million and the number of employees 250. They pay at an annual level of 13 thousand kuna. There are 3,306 of them, and they are the members of the Chamber 43 million kuna and the third group, they are the great entrepreneurs they have in Croatia 1418. They pay about 47 thousand and 640 kuna a year and theirs, their contribution to the Chamber membership fee is 38% and 67 million kuna, respectively. What I would certainly like to say, therefore, is that I also supported this in the replica at first, that I agree with a single paragraph provided for in Article 40, which will determine the effect, the impact assessment of the law itself, and that for 2 years will make it possible for the government, but that the chamber is also to be transformed and indeed becomes an efficient service turned to the economy. It is likely that from 2 years of experience we will be able to further consider new releases, new benefits for Croatian entrepreneurs, because the chamber will be able to significantly reduce revenues to be in a position to reorganise, to completely change its way of doing business and to turn to new sources of funding, to turn to the European funds, to be better, to be a better service to the entrepreneurs themselves. I read from this law exactly the government's wish that the chamber would absolutely adapt to the new, new way of doing business, the new conditions, and these conditions were significantly defined by the coronary crisis itself which changed business and above all in trade, in mode of work, work from home, etc., work from home, so that, that the chamber itself in such a new way of doing business must, be well adapted. So, let me finish at the HDZ Representatives' Club, we're going to support this, like this, motion to amend the law. We expect that by the second reading, the Government will carry out further consultations with both the public and entrepreneurs, and then we will pass exactly the law that we predicted when we planned and reached the conclusion that we had committed the Government to make a proposal by July 15th to amend the law that would go towards the financial discharge of Croatian entrepreneurs, which would go towards the restoration itself, the HGK itself, in order to become a real service to domestic entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57458	Thank you. Before we move on to an individual debate, I would just like to inform you that we will vote on the debated points on Thursday, July 15, at 10 o'clock, so please make sure that all clubs get the notice, but please pass it on to your colleagues. And tomorrow we're also going to discuss another point, and that's choice, appointments and resolutions. Well, here's the thing, just as a notice, and now we're going to have an individual debate and first they're going to speak to the respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57459	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and my colleagues and I am one of those parliamentary deputies who I am really quite neatly discussing points, I read bill proposals, I'm interested in all of this, and I don't have a problem staying up until late evenings if all this makes sense together. Why are we here today and why are we discussing this law today? Just because one club from the opposition, so the MOST Club didn't go undercover with the bill on HGK and see wonders then one ruling club said we'll support the bill. That's what he said from this pay phone on behalf of the club that ruling club. Of course, when you have 76 hands in the assembly that you are in big trouble and then you must not support the proposal of opposition, and to try it I would indeed have one, Zvonimir Majdak has one determined book that is written and could be quoted as the name of that book, but I will not do so because it could really be inappropriately related to this debate and only because today we are discussing this chamber law. There's no reason, there's no reason. On several occasions, it was already debated whether, if mandatory membership in the chamber, whether optional membership in the chamber, whether or not, was the case and why the debate was so brief. For the simple reason it came into tea. With the 15th, the work of the assembly stopped, it happened that it had to be made out of obligation to the coalition partner, and today we are discussing this law only for that reason. Otherwise, the respected Mr. Bacic has a certain custom for some proposals that foreign opposition say article. Use the word "office." I never use that word, I never use that word or a bill, but now I really feel like a single article where now, you want to show me by ruling that it's some kind of reform. There's no reform, there's nothing. I still think Croatia should have HGK, I think the tradition of chambers in these areas is extremely important. In this case, the first one was the 1447 Zagreb tailors, so we have a long tradition, but one of the only provisions that you should have told, which is that membership in HGK is voluntary. And then we don't have any more of this behind, but make it good, make it a success, let it be that I want to join the HGK. I'll just give you a comparison with not so long ago. From the building chamber, at one point it is still absolutely unknown to me, it is said that the construction heads and all that is related to the construction site that membership in the chamber is voluntary, not mandatory. I thought it should be then for different reasons that it should be defined differently. You know what happened? The number of members has not decreased because membership in the chamber means something to you. If you are a member of the chamber first you must know why you are, you must have reasons why you joined that chamber and you must know what you are getting from that membership. If you get something from these memberships, you'll get that membership in a certain way as well as when you're a member of a fishing society and you know that you're a member of a fishing society because of a license or any other reason or good company and you'll pay that membership fee at a level of 200 kuna for a year, now I'm really talking out of the sleeve. Therefore, no one is against shutting down the HGK. Membership in, therefore, the interest of HGK should be to have as many members as possible, to be successful, to help them, and not to make up jobs why they should be there. And indeed, I rarely use any more difficult words, but today we are only here because of a coalition that was 76 hands and one coalition partner came for this pay phone and clearly said I will support this law and it all collapsed together. It could have been an option and different. It could've been said okay, let's go to the second reading, and we'll be between the first and second reading, as you're telling us now, okay? It's been a public debate for 5 days, but you'll say something there too, so there'll be some public debate in the fall. Why aren't we all together in the assembly ready for such a step, let's all ask ourselves that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57460	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrak Taritas, you voted twice in the Croatian Parliament for a law that would be abolished, abolished the obligation of membership in HGK. I will remind you in 2017 when the SDP is in opposition and you as.../incomprehensible/... proposed to abolish mandatory membership fees and other times this year in January. But it is signifiable when you were able to really implement it, you were against you as a member of the HNS whose minister was a minister of the economy, remember, and the SDP minister who was the minister of the craft proposed the abolition or to establish that membership was optional then you as a minister and your party were explicitly against such a law to abolish membership. Well, according to that. When you're talking to me or to us, then I remind you how it works when you perform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57462	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57463	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Yeah, you're partly right, so when you're a member of a party then when you go out for this pay phone, you always say what's agreed on by party bodies. You can say other things in the towers and stand up for other things, but you as a responsible member of any party will very rarely go counter, almost never, show someone who will go against what is agreed upon. You'll also point out, that's why the parties are there, and you're pointing out that some things aren't good and I'm just as good and I'm pointing out that some things aren't good and that you and I both know very well for the simple reason that you can't look yourself in the eye every time and you can go to something and you can't. But I was also in favour of the option that HGK should have some changes and that these changes should be. As I was then and now I am. I don't think it's ever good to go with an axe, I think we're going with that, that's what we should go with. gradually. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57464	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57465	Dear colleagues of Taritash, it is clear to all of us that we are discussing this law because of the pressure of the Association The Voice of Entrepreneurs but also because of the law which our colleague Troscott referred to in the procedure when the ruling coalition was divided and when Mr Hrebac said he supported this proposal so that he would withdraw later and wash his cheek, then we have such a partial proposal where you do not actually go in the direction that you advocate, and with which I agree therefore that membership in HGK will be voluntary and that those entrepreneurs who want it and who benefit from it are paying that membership. But it's going in this direction to forgive part of it, to re-determine the arbitration where you have to apply for release, so the question is what's going to be, where we have a situation where these big companies won't be released, so maybe they'll beat it over the back of these smaller co-operatives, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57466	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57467	Thank you very much. So, I can always use one sentence used by informers here. You know, you've got a computer now, and now you've got this computer thing that's wrong, so you're starting to get these icons, and then you call the one that's holding your computer, and then the usual word is, "Give it to you now and turn it off." I also think, so this story with HGK is not an exclusive right or a colleague of Troski's didn't think of it once. So, the debate about what kind of HGK we want, what membership we want in HGK, has been going on for many years. Here, let's be fair and clear to the end, you know what's the problem with HGK at ours, the property it has, the property on the property which in Zagreb, which somewhere else. If you become that membership is voluntary, if all of this decreases together, then it will be a problem and who will own these properties. Whether or not the owner of the Republic of Croatia Well, this kind of discussion has been going on for years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57468	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoke by the respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57469	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's something I want to say about this HGK Act because what we certainly think from this debate seems clear is that no one is in favour of abolishing the HGK, and here we all agree. Now that we're not in favour of abolishing it means that we have to give her a certain way of life and that it can somehow work in time ahead because apparently that institution has its long history I found somewhere in 1952 the creation of then a commercial crafts chamber that was both a pre-run and a Chamber of Commerce, and apparently also a crafts chamber, that it's about 169 years older than me and my colleagues Bauk and from Hajduk and from Grmoja, and should continue to live. I think that's where we agreed. And now, the reform potential, it has also shown itself in this time, means there are reformers who are moving into reforms, who end up with criminal applications or reform with one word, through one article, and there are those who still give it a little bit more and try to solve it with, that it can work and secure life because, if we had accepted a reform through one word, the question is anywhere we would talk today and how we would have talked about exactly that Chamber that can live, what it does and why it's even important. Why in 1852, people had the need to come together from some of the worlds to a higher level of the Chamber and to try to achieve some of their interests, business interests in some countries or plants of that time, etc., and that today we do not need it in this time which is much more dynamic, faster, better, etc. It means we're not new or we've invented anything but it's been a long time. Now, what have we been through these 30 years? Obviously, this is the first attempt to change that bill of '91, which doesn't mean there weren't any, but what was wrong with those attempts? There were some agreements and courage missing, just those who criticized. In 2014, you have one minister on the run, Mr. Maras, if you remember, who was the Minister of Entrepreneurship, and on the other hand, Minister of Economy. They had a fight. They had a bill that was supposed to go out for a public hearing that was, well, when we look at it, a little different from today. He had certain activities, but at no time was he what Mrs. Poirot was saying. You're telling me there's no mandatory membership. At least for some groups. For some groups, it means at no time, not then. But today, here, we represent a completely different position as an opposition representative, and we can think differently, and that's allowed. So, what happened in 2014? The shifts took place in certain functions and someone was very angry with the elected member at the time, which was a move, let's immediately reform this entire Chamber in a way, that we will prescribe who will be voluntary, who will be mandatory, how we will choose the president, how long his mandate will be, etc. So not that there was no attempt, there was no courage, and then there was no courage, but they had a fight. Now that's the difference between what we have today, so these reforms and those reformers, the people have changed. He simply didn't believe that they could do something right. And today we heard the data, so we heard that we have a total somewhere in the first group up to about 133 378 business entities that pay 42 kunas a month or 504 kunas a year. There are some 67 million kunas that will be fired by this bill to business entities. There are 2nd and 3rd groups with what we have from the data, where we have in the second 3306 and 1 418 business entities in the 3rd group, these are the strongest who have more than 250 employees, simply paying the most, there will be some 110 million kunas there somewhere. And then what are we doing? Let's compare. Who do we put first? Estonia. We hear 90 million euros in budget. Well, we're bad at 110 or 150 costs or whatever's already going to happen through that system and, we say, there are no states that have mandatory. There is a country with mandatory membership, both Austria and France and Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, Spain. They're not good enough for us to compare ourselves to them. We're always something different or more special than all of them and we can't agree our own, let's just say, our own self-determination, our own self-loathing and say what we want, here, now we've said, for the first group membership mandatory, and you won't pay for it. And that's not good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57470	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative, a colleague of the Grmoi, you are late, the respected representative of Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57471	Thank you very much, dear fellow Boric. Well, here, I think you've seen it well. One sentence, although I still remember your interpretation well, one inaccurate sentence that doesn't essentially change what colleagues thought was changing the reform by emergency procedure, and the whole law in 2 readings, it's not reform. But you just said that if we were looking at the tradition, given that the Chamber was 170 years old, let's look at Austria, in the end, 170 years ago, we were the same state. Personally, I was also in Vienna, visited their chambers of commerce, visited the WIFI Institute, what the HGK and direction which, especially in dual education where they annually educate 15 to 20 thousand people, is that direction in which they should also go. So why look at Estonia, let's look at Austria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57472	A fellow Grumo has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57473	He's been injured. 238 as it is said of a bill that was instigated means the ruling that they are going with this mini reform at all, as one inaccurate sentence structure. So this inaccurate sentence structure has prompted you to at least suggest something, so you see how this was, well, to go with this inaccurate sentence structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57474	Comrade Thunderbolt, it's extremely incorrect of us to do what you've just done. You were too late to lift your replica board and then you abused the conscious institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I, of course, give you a line of art. 239 warning, but don't do it in the future, please. ... Yeah? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Did you get it up again? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57475	He's been injured. 8, therefore, the Honorable Chairman. You can't interpret the motives of my raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't pick up because I was late, but I've done some damage to my Rules of Procedure to correct my colleague Pavić, and you can give me a warning, and that's all you can do, and you can't comment on my motives and don't allow it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57476	I'm going to allow myself quite a bit, and now I'm going to be the foundation of your article. 240th century 1 says a reminder by subtracting a word. Here's my colleague, Boric, to the answer to this, to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57477	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Grmo... So you can't make me, say, you didn't give me another warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57478	He's a friend of Grumo's. This was your second warning, that you know the Rules of Procedure, that you have no idea what it says in the Rules of Procedure. You'd know that. The 240th century means only a reminder by taking away the word of that hour. [[I got one warning.]] But now you're arguing with the chairman, so now I'm your foundation. In 240th century, I give a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57479	Thank you very much, Vice President, this is also the best solution since my colleague, Grmoja When there's a little bit of it, I answer [[I know I'll fight that it doesn't suit you that I'm here, Boric, that you can't discuss Boris.]] I'm the only colleague of the bush who... [[/Intruder:... because I know I'll fight that to you, that you'd rather silence me completely, but it won't work, I'll fight.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: It won't work, it won't go to Boric.]] [[/Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57480	Please, be courteous, please, be courteous, do not shout from the place [[I'm not yelling, I'm just talking, I'm not yelling at all.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57481	I'm out of time, hello. Well, it went to me, and I went half a minute on my fellow bush, and I'm the only one who defends him when he's being attacked from the green-left block, but I was going to say, fellow Pavic, when we put the time back a little bit and the second month of pre-election activity and everything, I remembered Mr. Thunder who's going to be pushed into the front row, it was Mr. Troscott and ended up at 4%, what is the rating and gentlemen from the Bridge presently, and that's why it's going to be lower in view of their reform potential. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] But when we go back to the Chamber of Commerce, we have a situation that obviously we all want that institution to survive. We have offered the solution we are discussing today. Those who have given up their opinions can join, those who want to contribute, let them help us declare this in another reading even better, if they have suggestions or let them join and contribute precisely to our employers who they love very much and who they always swear to, that they also make their own interest through this Chamber that we are talking about today, but also through the other, the craftsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57482	The next replica of the respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57483	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, in public this debate wanted to appear as if it had something against the institution, i.e. the Chamber as an institution, and I really don't think anyone has it, and we all agree that the Chamber should stay as such. But the way the Chamber works is something worth discussing. What's here, what's going to happen here with this bill, is that the Chamber will lose 60 million kuna, or 1/3 revenue, and it's quite certain that there will be an increase in the amount of compensation for certain services that the Chamber exclusively and only as a monopoly provides on the market, which is definitely not good, and I think we can agree there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57484	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57485	Thank you very much, colleague Vukemilovic. We can't agree because this law doesn't say that it's going to come to this or that, so that's your thinking that needs to go into the favorites of your some debate here, but it's not exactly how you wrote it because it's just clearly set up here who needs something and who doesn't need it. If you don't want to, obviously there will be some other rules so you'll think about it because I think it's okay, but let's talk about whether something voluntary or voluntary is mandatory, there's a debate... We said we'd fire the membership fee in this first group where there's most of them, 96%, and I don't think that the cost of 67 million kuna that's constantly being talked about is insignificant help if we talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's still 130 thousand business entities. Do they still want to use the Chamber services? I think so, that they and those favors and now they've won. Now, there's a lot of these institutions called the Chamber, I found them around 14 in different forms, where people team up through chambers to solve some of their services and issues in common, from the foresters, geodes, I don't know, doctors, etc. And they have certain rules why they do it, I don't know if they have it all for free. I don't know how they even work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57486	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57487	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS, colleague Boric. There's never that late or whoever's waiting, welcome. It would be concluded from your debate that you were eager to wait for 2014 and 2015 to come to a new law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that you could support it at that time.../incomprehensible/... as an opposition to the motion of the ruling and to vote with your heart on this law and in fact, you would be very affirmative about what would be a great surprise, so I assume that your debate was only because you were sorry that you didn't have the opportunity to do so in 2014 and 2015, but here, in 2021 you have welcomed and you will have the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57488	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57489	Thank you very much, colleague. We were waiting at the time, but we didn't welcome because you had a fight with the two ministers who were in charge of the economy and entrepreneurship, they had a fight because they made a proposal that one minister advocated a voluntary membership of the first group, and the other one stood up for mandatory and there was a problem in the coalition, if I, here, colleague Bauk was a minister, he was a witness there, no. He probably handled it at the level of the Ministry of Administration and didn't solve it and eventually gave up. It gave up and the time came when those responsible, which is this government, wants to solve this issue, and again, we are not changing one word in a way and we have made a reform, but we are trying to lay down a system that it has its function in the future because these dozens of public powers are not insignificant in the business world, by us. If you want to do them in another body, then it's costing something again and we have to say it, not.../incomprehensible/... there's something just charging, no one gets anything, and that people listen and think it's like that, and it's not like that. That's why it's your solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You're against him now. [[Employee: Dear Representative Petyr.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Boric. Arguing the importance of the Chamber, you said how many years it existed and you even compared it to Hajduk, you said it was older than Hajduk, and you forgot to say that Hajduk lived forever, but the Chamber almost survived those reforms and reformists, well, I just wanted to remind that when entrepreneurs appealed to the Chamber reform, they weren't for its abolition, they wanted a better service. A better favor. Through some discussions, I'm not really sure what conclusions she would have drawn today when I listen, because I have the impression that some of the most preferable that the Chamber is gone because it is referred to as the source of all the evils in Croatia. So I wonder if this Chamber has done anything right, and can it, in the future, after this law is changed, continue to do some good things?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57492	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57493	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. You and I know that what we have has many other countries. So here we are talking about those who have mandatory membership and I don't know what we are weaker than any of Germany or France or Austria or any other country. They have it as a mandatory membership and there's no problem. They're doing their job. We constantly question especially if there is something like this, and I say in addition there are some 14 or more chambers that bring together many other experts in certain branches or in certain professions, and those between themselves are solving the issues of certain services they provide and they have the right to do so and no one discusses them. As no one discusses, let's just say, associations that spend a lot of money, too. Some have made Ph.D.s, and no one asks them how they work, how they choose bodies, etc. They also function as Croatian citizens and work programmes and contributions, etc. So we always find something. This, I think, was more or less when I see it now, is what my colleague Grumois said was pre-election to push a candidate but he didn't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57494	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57495	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, today we are discussing an organization that has a long tradition that you mentioned in your debate, of course. We can all agree that surely the reform of this law after 30 years is welcome, but what I cannot agree with is a public perception. We could hear it today from some debates, and again it's mentioned art. I think it's certainly the perception. Maybe the chamber didn't present its services well enough, and I'll just mention something I said in the previous replica, and what's positive and good in that part of the job that I was doing and that I worked along with my county chamber we had at the annual level harmonizing about a thousand timetables, about two and a half thousand were objections of course to those timetables. Before joining the EU 6000...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57496	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57497	Thank you very much, colleague Maximchuk. I understand what you want. It also means that we haven't done anything with this law in this system, and something's been going on for a few years now, so when we look at that period in 2013, 2020. Only in the number of employees of 640 at the end of 2020. 390. So almost 250 people work less in that system. Something's going on. Business is being rationalized. It is likely that this law will also contribute to further agreeing, rationalising and imposing this system with certain new activities. It is up to us to help them survive, to have as safe as the source of funding that is being solved here in the way that is proposed and not to end the ways that others have designed, that they don't need it at all. And when we put the word willingly or willingly to bring it down on its own and that no one else has any responsibility anymore. That's not what we wanted. It was a policy dispute that led here five or six months ago. And now we see that they were actually by MOST, given the way they're discussing pre-election activities in order to be someone else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57498	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57499	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned no one to remove the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but here we can easily conclude that none of the opposition will even support this bill outside this item. Outside this sentence, the introduction of a voluntary membership fee has not been heard of any other proposal to reform the HGK regardless of the proposal to abolish 95% mandatory membership fees. There's no support again, and we're not going to get it. Now on the one hand, we have an opposition initiative that started about a year after the election. We have a government solution on the table, but we still have a huge dissatisfaction with the opposition, and in their performances today and tomorrow it'll look like we haven't solved anything and we're back to square one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57500	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57501	Dear colleague Bacic, I don't know, I listened to a colleague from the SDP in his speech on behalf of the club. I had a feeling it was a waste of his time actually this law and he said he'd be against it. When there was one word they were all in and it was gathering to be in. When they proposed as a government or an option when they had the opportunity, they suggested similar and they were likely but two ministers got into a fight. So today we can be difficult to understand what they really want to be when we talk about this bill and this Chamber of Commerce at all. So that's that vague attitude. And then everyone else fits into that story, forget what they were, what they suggested and, of course, the opposition is against it. We'll vote this, send it to another reading. I hope that if there are any good proposals to be respected, so that we can discuss it again in the second reading and that it is good, that we should not be Germany, Austria and Estonia, to be Croatia, to ensure the institution and its normal functioning, to add powers to them if we think we should and that it makes sense. And not that, here's one word, we're reformers, and the rest of you don't know anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57502	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57503	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. One of the most interesting things in this law is that its title is the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the National No. 66/91 and 73/91. So, the constitution has changed several times, the County House has been abolished, we have entered NATO and the EU, the government has changed several times, many changes have occurred in Croatia but the law of the HGK has remained the same 30 years. In fact, the question arises whether the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is an economic chamber of the Republic of Croatia or whether the Republic of Croatia is a state of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and they are a state in the country. It can be very, very open a very interesting philosophical debate. Now something about the law. Some colleagues spoke about the lack of public debate. This can be corrected in the second reading to then make one public, one longer consultation with the interested public since we have two months of summer breaks and probably some other proposals that will be more at priority level than the HGK Law. But Article 2(1) is a little incomplete. I'll read it and read what's missing. Therefore, the Chamber is an independent professional and business organisation of economic operators established to promote, coordinate and represent common interests and resolve their disputes in the country and abroad. And what is missing from the leadership is somehow found by a member of the Croatian Democratic Community. That's missing. And I think that because of the completeness of the law, this should certainly be given in the second reading, where the last member of the president from, a prominent HDZ member, until he ran for the presidential election past HDZ, Mr Vidosevic also had some contact with the law enforcement authorities, along with a number of HGK employees. That's the one thing that's missing. Now a little more serious. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Statute of the Chamber shall be adopted with the prior opinion of the Ministry responsible for the economy. Here is my proposal to be the preliminary opinion of the competent working body of the Croatian Parliament. So I'll try to explain. HGK has a lot of public authority. And I am not prone to the institutions which are prescribed by law to have public powers, that only the adoption of this law, which prescribes public authority, be the only contact of the Croatian Parliament with that institution, and as you can see, for 30 years, the law has not changed, but that even in the organisation, the way of the elections, etc. when they already have public powers, so if they want to be organised freely, the same people and groups can be organised in the Association of Citizens based on the freedom of association when they already have public powers and certain incomes from then and a little more debate on their work in the Croatian Parliament. As for what's the most interesting part, and which is why there was one debate, and the membership fee, I would say it like this. So, I'm never a fan of those great ideas and ours, and yours. So, by law, we commit certain entities, economic operators to be members of something, to necessarily pay a certain membership fee, and then to completely and autonomously leave it to someone else to organise it and to decide in fact how the funds of those who pay for that membership will be spent, therefore not voluntary. And that's why I think this proposal is in that sense also I won't call it a clock but also incomplete. Therefore, in order for certain control mechanisms to be laid down in this case, regular control mechanisms, external control of the work of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to the extent to which it is entrusted with public authority. Otherwise, the other option is that these public powers entrusted to the HGK laws are checked as regular tasks of state administration bodies which are also controlled by the Croatian Parliament and the Government, but at least for them are held by democratic elections every four years or more often if you fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57504	We have one replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57505	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, do you deliberately or intentionally forget a colleague from your club who also contributed to that Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I think he's also a representative at this club now and you always name someone else and you say HDZ is behind something. Well, there's some SDPs out there. But that's not the point. I'm interested in something else. I am interested in why when the proposal came for a debate in the Croatian Parliament of the Honorable Mr. Grumoje in one word there was no public debate and that was not the problem. When the government sets a five-day deadline, it's short, no one can answer, etc. There was no answer here except for us here in the assembly and we were arguing. What's so problematic about what we have here in a direct procedure? So we can discuss it, it's not the biggest problem, but that's what bothers you. And secondly, I didn't understand... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57506	Anyway, it's been a while. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57507	To paraphrasise Minister Beros, thank you for these questions. So, as far as the fellow MPs you mentioned were concerned, I was talking about Presidents of the Chamber. Of course, members of other parties, including members of my party, are sometimes found everywhere and even in the Football Federation. Sometimes they help everything go wrong, so they do a little bit of repairing what your party colleagues do, so I hope it was this case too. And as for the public debate, that I don't think it's some big problem that public debate, that consulting with interested public for a law that goes into first reading takes five days. Besides, it's better for me to say it than for you to dig it up somewhere or someone to give it to you. And some of the laws that I proposed when I was a first-reading minister came without any public debate, and then there was a consultation with interested public for second reading, so I hope that this will be the case with this law. So in that sense my remark was just that this was missing to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57508	Thank you. Now she will speak to a respected representative, Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57509	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The country's movement, and I myself myself, who often talk about these economic topics, I point out that our country's overpriced entrepreneurs are simply overloaded with a number of different duties and we have had these tax discharges but they go mainly, these are these horizontal measures that apply equally to all. These vertical ones are gone, and we're still waiting for them. It's not just my opinion. There are a large number of documents in which we have committed ourselves to abolishing and reducing the number of parafiscal burdens, and we expect it to be significant. The fact is that this debate over the Chamber of Commerce and the proposal that came from colleagues from MOST has been constantly trying to make public appearances as a debate that is a blow to institutions, even saying what is next. Are we going to cancel the tax now? So there was a comparison to the tax chamber. No one has anything against the Chamber as an institution. All EU countries have a chamber system that is most normal. What bothered the opposition and what the opposition wanted when it supported the proposal was simply to say the way the Chamber works is something that has to be reconsidered. Besides, here's a colleague named Bauk who said the law hasn't changed in 30 years since '91. I'm going to point out that pre-election time is not good for this kind of initiative. And I think that using this to position a candidate as Robin Hood who fights for entrepreneurs is not good and in no case contributes to the quality of the debate and the quality of the solution that we as a Croatian Parliament will have to bring. Because now we have a legal proposal that's what it is. What bothers me the most here is that membership remains mandatory. So what's my personal opinion is that membership in the Chamber must be on a voluntary basis. And I'm also convinced that absolutely nothing spectacular would happen, and now I'm going to prove it to you by having over two hundred crafts, OPGs, cooperatives and associations decided to join the Chamber voluntarily because they recognized the action Let's Buy Croatian. So they have no obligation, the vast majority of them do not have to be members of the Chamber, but they are members of the Chamber because in the action Let's buy them a Croatian recognition of something that is useful to them. So voluntary membership would encourage the Chamber to perform on the market by developing programs that are useful to entrepreneurs and where they will recognize some interest. Now this division into three groups that are de facto prescribed by the Accounting Act, when we're dividing companies into small, medium, large, so we're going to forgive these, we're not. They'll probably cause one big part to withdraw, but then when they see that they have to pay this, so this and these prices will very, very likely go up because the Chamber somewhere has to compensate for that revenue that makes up a third. So it's over 90% of the members, but it's a third of the income. Let's not go after grandmas and frogs. So I know that all of us in the debates like to use those numbers that somehow give more arguments for what we stand for. But that's a third of the membership fee. What I find a little disputed are Articles 31 and 32. So the level of membership fee will be determined every year and it can also happen that those who have an obligation have to pay higher membership fees, and the services of the Chamber will then very likely experience changes in this price list at a higher rate because the Chamber has to make up for these 60 million kunas somewhere, as long as this legal proposal actually leaves them without.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57510	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57511	Dear colleagues, Vucimilovic, one question. Research in Europe shows that just the countries that were in transition, for example one Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, who moved on to a voluntary membership system and voluntary membership payments actually became the most efficient Chamber. The position of the ruling is often heard by this one destructive argument that it's destructive, that there is a fear of destroying our Chamber. As you see it and whether such a step towards the market, as a orientation towards the market, would it really be something to worry about or think that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce could also be placed as one Estonia, so as one Poland, therefore other chambers that have made one step and therefore are very market-active.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57512	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57513	Thank you very much for asking. Comrade Troscott, you know we share the same opinion. As far as the Chamber is concerned, I think membership should be voluntary. What would be good, we haven't done in many segments, it's not just the Chamber. So one part of the Chamber is experiencing as part of some southern communist heritage because that membership was mandatory there as well as a number of other memberships. And for that reason, I appeal once again for membership to be on a voluntary basis, and the Chamber will definitely earn on the market enough funds to function normally. And we, when we went into transition, were the second economy in power. Now we're at the beginning, and it tells us a lot. So the Chamber is not the only institution that needs to be reformed. We inherited many more institutions from those times that kept the status they had.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57514	Thank you. Honorable representative of Wooden Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57515	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague. We discussed the subject today and in the morning on the Committee on Economy. Here it is, I have a chance to report the need to say just after 30 years some law that, in some ways, 96% of small businessmen releases, so it can be decided not to pay that membership fee. And as I said on the board, I think we should make sure they see what they get, and what they lose with that non-payment of membership fees in that Chamber of Commerce. But I think it's Article 40. It tells us that within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Economy is to implement the compensation of the impact assessment of this law because I think that after two years, it will be seen whether some of the decisions of this law are good, which should be amended, which should be adapted and, ultimately, I hope that they will be communicated with large and small entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57516	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57517	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, we had this discussion on the board this morning and I'm saying we all agree that the Chamber as an institution still needs to keep it. If this is some kind of interstep, that's good. We think it's not enough unfortunately because it's been too long when there hasn't been any change. And what the Chamber definitely needs, because we see that, in public, some kind of picture has been created that it's a bunch of people who don't do anything that doesn't stand the same and it's not true, let's be realistic. But what the Chamber should definitely do is do some kind of survey among its members as satisfied as they are. And it wouldn't be bad for them to do it every year, so all those who have ISO9001 are doing a measurement of customer satisfaction every year. If companies can do that, I don't see why they wouldn't do that to the Chamber and to all those who use the Chamber services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57518	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57519	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. So, indeed, the debate that was not so long ago turned into that it wanted to abolish the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. At no time did anyone say that they wanted to abolish the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but said the time had come to place these things in a different way. Since the Middle Ages, then, people, or craftsmen, have been teaming up to protect their interests. They joined together voluntarily because they wanted to, because they saw their chance there. And I'm kind of really convinced that what would make sense now 30 years after we have this law from '91. that the time has come to be a voluntary membership and that the Chamber is making sure that the services it has are such that members want to join, that through this voluntary membership and the compensation they pay for it get much more than some. And that would be the meaning of both this law and this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57520	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57521	Thank you very much, dear colleague Dark-Taritash. I couldn't agree more. The fact is that we have been waiting too long for the reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and what most of our entrepreneurs are actually suffering, I have talked to many of them. It's that the Chamber has no problem with the payment of claims. So it's mandatory and you have to do it, you can't do it in your card. You, when you go, means when an entrepreneur goes to the bank to get credit if he has some outstanding debt, in this case to the Chamber, he has to solve it. So by law, it's pretty well arranged as far as the Chamber is concerned. But what I must mention and stress is the fact that it would be good if we were just waiting for a reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We have been waiting for many years and for public administration reform, judicial reform, health reform, education reform and a whole series of reforms. But here they say there are over 100 and something in this new National Recovery and Resistance plan, so they lived to see. Let's hope some of us can finally come to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57522	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vucilovic, you spoke about the fact that you believe that membership in the Chamber should be voluntary. I remember these processes and attempts at reform in 2012 when however it gave up ideas for the Chamber of Commerce and crafts, but it actually applied to the Agricultural Chamber because no one cared, so from the membership of 176 000 farmers as they were then enrolled in the Chamber membership, that membership became voluntary and came down to only a few hundred farmers. We can say that at that moment Croatia's agricultural chamber literally whispered, because the authorities at the time did not respond to strong farmers, their strong associations that would articulate their problems and their views. And from that moment on, she never recovered. I think that we should be a role model in other Member States that have strong agricultural chambers because it has proved that these chambers are the negotiators that allow for a better position for farmers on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57524	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57525	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr, but honestly, I don't think we all can be the same denominator as each other. So, if all the Chambers have the name Chamber in their name, it's not the same. For example, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of crafts are not comparable because they have a completely different cleavage and diapazon of action. It is similar with the Agricultural Chamber, but on the other hand you always have some contrasting arguments where you have a Croatian Association of Employers and a whole series of professional chambers that very well exist and exactly on that voluntary basis. You always need to weigh which is plus, which is minus. I personally believe that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce would lose absolutely nothing, because here you can see that there are a whole series of OPGs, crafts that are members and do not have to be. But also when this public debate took place, a large number of large companies that will remain, which will have to pay membership fees, did not rebel. In fact, they argued to remain a mandatory member and did not see any problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57526	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57527	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation, you said that you support the position of voluntary membership for all entrepreneurs in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that you believe that nothing important would change because there are even craftsmen who are happy to include and pay membership fees and are part of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce because they provide some specific services. Further when you spoke about this bill of ours where more than 90% will be voluntary membership you express fear of losing more than 60 million kunas of income. Why do you think that all those who can be voluntary members will give up membership in the Chamber when on the other hand you think there are some benefits that also make craftsmen join the Chamber itself. I believe there won't be any revenue cuts just for these reasons that you've listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57528	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57529	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So membership remains mandatory, membership for no category is voluntary. The basis of this bill leaves only certain categories of entrepreneurs going into this category of small and medium-sized people with the possibility of paying, being members and paying membership, or not being members. But then they will pay those services that the Chamber offers them at some market price. Personally, I mean, it means it's gonna come as I said it would, and then when they see that they have to pay far more, they'll probably come back. So there's going to be one original blow and there's going to be, of course, a reduction in income at the start. Whether it'll be 60, 50, 40, 30 million kunas that I'll assume are some projections and made at the ministry, and also in the Chamber because I don't see any rationalization that it'll close down the office in Shanghai or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57530	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by respected representative Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57531	Thank you, colleague Reiner. In his debate, colleagues and colleagues, Bauk mentioned 30 years in which nothing was touched in the Chamber of Commerce Act and therefore there was definitely one suspicion that it is so important now that we will actually try to solve it under the auspices of the night and achieve a major reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We only took those few steps to say why we were brought into this situation today. Because we had that interesting debate a few months ago when it obviously came, and now because of the pre-election or the ideological shooting in the ruling coalition, which the present MOST proposal apparently found unprepared or not communicated enough amongst themselves. And he asked whether at that time HDZ's ruling majority could reject the MOST proposal, which supported the entire opposition. Today, we do not have this problem after colleagues of Hrelja and potential new chips, so we are going to do better than we promised then, which is that before the summer break we will make a big reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Now, it has been mentioned several times that we have a history in the economic chamber system that lasts 170 years. The question that each of us must ask if something works 170 years in the years in which it has tried was part of building or creating the foundation of Croatian identity. What we've all done together is we've never had any lower confidence in that institution and we've even come up with a debate about whether or not membership is necessary, so if it's someone to end it. Does the Croatian Chamber of Commerce have any sense at all? Now with this law of changing some let's be realistic cosmetics it is certain that we will not restore confidence in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We also ask ourselves why this Croatian Chamber of Commerce, apart from the analyses that were usually done in the direction of ruling policies, has never given clear answers over the past 30 years, to what is done and done wrong in the Croatian economy in the last 30 years, and that the Croatian economy, including the policy with its proposals for the law, should be done in some 30 years. Because I'm afraid that if we now scratched on the Romans and other new companies and unicorns that formed in the Republic of Croatia, I think that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce had the least interference and the least contact with their successes. Now, maybe we should go back to what are the results we expect from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? What is it that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should carry the economy, and, of course, it is only one place for all of us and for the citizens of this country to clear up once and for all, with the fact that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce leaves that taste in its mouth that it is actually one place where people who have been in love with people in some of the policies of the past time and who are new people unrelated to the parties now, although counterpart Arsen here said that it usually ends, which can bring this new spirit and a new breath. Everything we've been looking at in the last 30 years isn't enough and it's not good. And I can say that it seems tragic when we know what is the perception of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, we know what has become of the past, including the current President of the Chamber of Commerce, and then it turns out that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is the main staff member on the supervisory boards of our important Croatian companies. We today from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that we are arguing about today which is its purpose and purpose in general, which means that people there are not doing a good job we have even two representatives on the Podravka Supervisory Board, which is allegedly a very important company for the Republic of Croatia, for the development of our food and agricultural industry. Now, if these people aren't able to run a chamber that has a better perception, the question is, how exactly can they contribute to the work of Podravka? And what my colleague Petir said in one of her replicas, Hajduk lives forever, and the Chamber will probably live forever if she survived the SDP government. I will say if she survived both Vidosevic's arrest and Burilovic's diploma and Burilovic's health threat and vaccination over the ranks of all norms, then we can really say that she will live forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57532	The Honorable Representative Troscott has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57533	Dear colleague Jaksic, my question is next. You mentioned unicorns, this bill discriminates against actually medium-sized enterprises for reasons that they will still have to or will be required to pay membership fees. When you mentioned unicorns, so these are all the guys and girls who were moving from the garages themselves, they created companies, they themselves with their knowledge and skills, so they came to the most demanding markets, and they got to know each other and they made contacts with venture capital funds, and under these assumptions, so there was absolutely nothing to help them, and on the other hand they still have to pay that fee monthly. How do you view this and such one treatment and discrimination of large businesses?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57534	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57535	Well, it's a classic Croatian story, we didn't help you, you jumped out on the way, so now we'll give you a little hug, if we can get you anything else to serve our parafiscal duties we'll do it. It's a story with Croatian unicorns, but here I'm going to mention Podravka again. Podravka is a company whose international network branch is certainly something that can be used by the Republic of Croatia, which we all need to be proud of. Now the question arises that Podravka, which has so many economic diplomats in countries not only of Europe, but also of the world will remain the same in a package of those who will have to pay for HGK's fat money as it has done so far. And the meaning and help of the HGK was given by the director of a strong Koprivnica company, not the Podravka in the crown crisis when he said, they called me from the Voice of Entrepreneurs, they called me from the HUP, they called me even from some other border organizations, they kept sending us what was changed in the crown, they called us from the HGK after a month and ask the little one if you're still working. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57536	Thank you. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57537	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, so here we are in the Croatian Assembly witnessing systematic pulsism and weakness of institutions. Two, a few months ago, in the middle of the campaign, we were exposed to the link, it started with HGK, so the HOK, so the tourist community where the goal is to weaken institutions and get political points. We can see that now. I remember the debate here, I remember the rite of painting at 2:00 in the morning, we're fighting for entrepreneurs, and here's the empty assembly, the opposition is almost gone. The HGK is a valuable entity, there are 170 years, what we forget, and this opposition forgets that on the one hand they complain that there should be a full removal of membership fees, and on the other hand they talk about further regulation forgetting that it is an association, the Ceva Association of Economys, where most of the businessmen decide about themselves. It all came down to memberships somehow, and in general it forgets what the Chamber of Commerce provides to the economy, tradition. Can you do better, always can do better. I spoke in person, and in the second part of my speech, I'm going to refer a little to the Austrian model. Most modernized these membership fees, this law will not pay 96% of the users. But we can't say that the current administration hasn't made a major reform since 2014, the membership fee has dropped from 75 to 56 to 42 kuna, no one has said that. Membership fees do not pay new companies for the first two years, and membership fees have been released from companies that had to suspend activity in the middle of Covid. The number of employees from 640 to 380 has been reduced almost halved. And whoever says that the absolute abolition of membership and compulsory membership is not in this Covid crisis de facto elimination of the Chamber of Commerce is lying, it speaks falsely, and the one on the wave of populism wants to weaken institutions. Article 39 clearly provides for 30 days, so 30 days will allow those who will pay, but let’s talk about quality and what all the chamber provides. Of the 12 delegated powers, Mr. Bošnjakovic spoke in his presentation and replica about the centre for calming, the court of honor and how much this relieves the legal system. No one in today's debate mentioned a digital chamber, no one. It provides e-Learning, e-Laws, e-Sams, e-financing, Member's e-Economy Information, all data, macro-data and searchers of business entities that will be free of charge to all members and continue. And the vision as I personally see through the cooperation he had as Minister of Labour and in charge of the European Social Fund is exactly the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. When someone says which one we should, so we traditionally belong to that circle then even in the common state, we were 170 years ago when I was fascinated by the chamber's actions on dual education. Already now, in the last Covid year, they had 15,000 educations. 15,000 people have passed education. 20 grand a year ago, Covid. 300 to 400 companies at foreign fairs ran, 700 to 800 companies at fairs in Croatia every year. What I'd like to see is a step up, and that's what I said, you're going to cry if we end all these institutions, and that's what I was saying because the main problem today when we listen to entrepreneurs is the lack of labour. The economy is recovering, labour shortages are our problem, reach and labour force, reaching new markets and education will be the key to solving this problem. We have a system that allows 15 to 20,000 educations a year and now needs to be destroyed. This reform will allow exactly that 96% of the members do not pay membership fees, but what Mr. Hajdash Doncic does not understand will also be something called the Institute, there is an ex post impact assessment so let's see what happened in two years. And to your colleagues from the SDP, you've had two amendments. You're crying that nothing has been made since the '90s. You had two mandates to do something, and the ministers were arguing with you. And here we have to get the HDZ government to take a step in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57538	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57539	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pavić, we have on one side a cry for opposition to reforms, here is today on the wallpaper of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and we are watching what we will achieve by this law. If we just look at what we're saying in some way, and that's the suspension of membership by 95% of the members we're not talking about, but we're going back to this percentage that we're going to reduce the income of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by about 30, over 30%. And that's a big amount when we look at millions of kunas, but that's one start of reform of that facility. Because in order to make up for that amount of a third of its budget, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is about to have to improve the quality of its services, perhaps name some additional services, come out stronger on the market, and this will in one way be the beginning of this reform. The improvement of the quality of a particular institution cannot be solved by law, but by just such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57540	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57541	Thank you very much. So I see this law as the continuity of the reform that the Chamber itself has implemented so far. I said they were reducing the number of employees themselves, but they were opening up to new markets. The opposition criticised the opening of the Shanghai office. So, we have a situation of large investments by Chinese companies in the Croatian market, we have an opening, we have a Chinese prime minister in the format of China +17 in Dubrovnik, we have a big opening of that market and a big demand for their companies to enter the Croatian market and then someone has a mind to open an office in Shanghai where only here is the Pelješki bridge that we see now ending is one big investment. And in the end and through China, we received the invitation of Prime Minister Plenkovic to the Chinese prime minister all masks and respirators. Of course there was economic co-operation, too, so I don't see in this direction...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57542	Thank you. A colleague of the Troscotts has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57543	This Regulation shall enter So when Mr. Pavic spoke about China, I would just like to refer, so it wasn't criticism that went in terms of opening an office, but doubling administrative costs, because there is an embassy there with an office of economics. And the question was more focused on a concrete drop in exports to China, and we're talking about a 20% decline in pre-covid period. Who's gonna be responsible? But we need to have an office. We could have opened it in the U.S., given that we're entering that market now, but no one as an office as such has criticised it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57544	You know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. .../Troscott: Here I pull./ You know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so I'm telling you, in accordance with article 239. [[/Pavic: What did you spend your lines on?]] We have a replica of the respected representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57545	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Pavić, I will take a closer look at this and explain this reform of yours. You've reformed nothing. You once again played entrepreneurs in the last 18 months, and by shortening the public debate, you humiliated the profession again and thus turned your back on the entrepreneurs. That's how you reformed this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57546	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57547	On the contrary. You're the one who supported the Troscott initiative that one sentence was supposed to be in an emergency procedure, we're going in two readings. And entrepreneurs well know how much support this government has with 11.7 billion kuna covid support, and that's why we're more than double your strength. Vox populi, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57548	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57549	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear fellow Pavic, as you said today, we are mostly talking about membership fees, and very little is said about what the Chamber can do. We forgot that in fact 96% of entrepreneurs are just small entrepreneurs, so these are those with only a few employees who can't in their composition, have their company a financial and tax expert and staff and legal advisor and so on. And all this can and must be provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I am sure that this proposal of the law will also make it possible for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to take a step and improve the quality of its services, and on the other hand, every small entrepreneur to know why he pays the service and because of those 42 kunas he has so far will, on a monthly basis, safely turn that number over and receive the service, or the information he needs, and may be related to the arrangements for excise duties, support, minimum technical conditions and other things that need to be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57550	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57551	Thank you very much. Well, you're absolutely right, and I think that's the balance right now. On the one hand, the biggest criticisms and several months ago were to small ones who do not necessarily obtain the countervalue of the services they pay because they are just developing. On the other hand, the middle ones said that they were particularly satisfied with fairs, educations and everything else, and this reform is going in that direction. 96% of the young won't pay membership fees, but they'll have access to all the services. Most services will be free, and I believe that one and a good part of them will decide what you said in your replica to be members on a voluntary basis, and this is also an incentive for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to formulate a package of services for them, to attract as many members as possible. At the same time, we do not shock the Chamber of Commerce to put an end to an institution worth preserving and developing for the last 170 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57552	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Pavić, you said well that institutions should be preserved and developed. We're just talking today about how we're going to end for small and medium-sized more or less membership fees. But I ask you who will organise, so for one such small and open economy all those activities and promote our economy in the external markets, that's the key to that whole story. So the big ones will be able to already have their own operating channels on the external markets, but the kid will need a strong organization to promote them on, on these external markets. We depend on providing our services and products on the European market and I think that the role of HGK is significant in this respect but just as we do today, this means that it will be much more demanding to work than it could be Such amounts shall, however, be retained in the chamber portfolio. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57554	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57555	Thank you very much for the replica and comment, I think that's exactly what you said. It's a question of who's going to organize it. When we talk about unicorns, I was also personally on a project by the British Embassy that 2010. 20 of the biggest Croatian startups took to London to find the financiers, among them was Mr. Romec who was just developing, Mr. Samodol who has photos, so 20, Mr. Prpić, so Cvetojevic, so all the big names that are worth today. It is the role of the chamber to do such things, and I would remind you that we are currently a member of the EU and that our market is essentially 500 million people plus all the third markets we have and who want to trade with us because we are a member and that is it. And that's why we need to ensure the development of the Chamber of Commerce, and we think this is a good balance of law, but it's not this criticism and the removal of the chamber. It shouldn't be... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57556	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57557	Thank you very much. A respected colleague is more than clear that when the law was in fact initiated, there was more talk about destroying or challenging the value of institutions than the content itself and the values that the chamber has been doing all these 170 years. What we can see very well when we are looking at the chamber pages and exactly this digitisation and the ability to see how many products through the original Croatian quality are really branded and how important it really is that institution to break into all of the world's markets. And surely, this very economic diplomacy is very important to care for through the chamber institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57558	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57559	Thank you very much, so here I am, personally, staying until 2 a.m. and discussing, and when it was the issue of HGK and HOC and all the other institutions because I think we should keep them. That we should preserve them, strengthen them, reform them yes but not end them on the wave of pulsism I will not glue the labels of my colleague Troscott this time, but we do not need to end them. And just what you said, here's no one mentioning today's action Let's buy Croatian. So, awarenessing our citizens about the value chain and investing in our own products, creating new products that bring value to going to IT industry, additional values and stepping up about it today, no one said anything. And a very valuable, very faithful campaign that eventually attracted a large amount of OPGs voluntarily to the HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57560	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57561	Dear Chairman, fellow Pavic may not be so mentioned today by tourism, but let's say that the association of communities operating in the tourism department is covered by the tourism sector's economics, the total number of members in the sector is 16700. So, we're talking and wondering if anyone besides the chamber is currently engaged in, say, an adventure tourism community, river tourism, diving tourism, wellness tourism, cultural tourism rather than this very economic chamber. From the experiences I had at the Ministry of Tourism, we organized together with the Chamber of Commerce the days of Croatian tourism and evaluations and Green Flower, Blue Flower etc., etc., so from the legislation we sat together and prepared both analyses and legislation, hence the far wide circle we worked together with the chamber and the HOC. So here is the value and importance of cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57562	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57563	Thank you, fellow Cappelli, so here we are sitting together in the government, I remember many of these activities and your initiatives precisely for promotion and Croatian tourism and on the EU markets and on third markets. Of course, there is Croatia and the Chamber of Commerce, as well as the tourist community played some key points. You could hardly afford such trips, not only financially, but contact. And I'm sorry that she, say, then these meetings are organised by foreign embassies that then have, which have a clear interest, and that interest that our unicorns and startups, who when they start to move their business to their countries. So I congratulate Mr. Romec and Infobip and everyone else to stay in Croatia and keep their jobs here. And the action Let's buy hrvatski is just that, let's keep jobs here and develop jobs of added value that can pay big wages that young people stay in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57564	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57565	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate you said how important and important it is to preserve institutions which, of course, I fully agree with you, is the easiest and simplest thing to end. We could all agree today that after 30 years of need and this law, but what I can't agree with is that it's a false perception, and right here in these discussions, before we talk about some kind of art, so I'm going to try to count in this very short time in just one small county chamber as much as we're doing it. So the alignment of the schedules on the county lines before the introduction of public service up to 1000 compliance, 205 complaints, before the entry into the EU were issued over 6000 permits, again speaking at the county level, is now around 2000 and over 100 cents, certificates of origin of goods, entry into the eyewitness, real estate, movables, processing of statistical data, economic movements towards the activity of course and number. Further Promotion Of course the organization and a lot of.../Speakers speak simultaneously, not understood. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57566	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57567	Thank you very much, so you listed a lot of functions that a county chamber, here you will remember when we started the competence centers the idea was that the workforce was educated in the workplace. And there's the key, there's the key owners, and then there's the key chambers that will provide the system for it. Connecting future employees or young people who want to gain a particular profession and education at the workplace is the concept of dual education, and I think that the chamber can make a big step here especially in the lack of labour. I would remind you that in 2019 nearly 100,000 people imported that now unemployment of 125,000 yesterday, 16,000 advertising jobs and precisely these concepts financed by EU funds, here nobody said that the HGK has a few dozen million kunas of active EU projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57568	Thank you. Now she will speak to respected representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57569	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing the HGK Law proposal, and should refer to the suspension of mandatory membership fees for the chamber, and a new application of the membership model according to which members are classified as 3 groups. According to this proposal, the first group was released from payments unlike the second and third groups. The question arises why only small companies, why only small companies will be freed from payment of membership fees and why not fully abolish membership fees or introduce voluntary membership for all. However, as has been said so far and several times, these amendments to the law introduce only the possibility that the HGK Assembly will eventually abolish membership fees, but not just for some. If their membership fee is also suspended, they shall submit a request within 30 days. The bill is according to all this is confusing and unspeakable. Thus, we have a disputed Article 38 whereby members of the first group chamber referred to in Article 30(2) who use the possibility of membership without payment of membership are obliged to make themselves known within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. I think it is necessary to either dismiss this obligation to plead within 30 days of the entry into force of the law or better to define it. In particular, it is unclear what happens to those who do not enter into force within 30 days and what will happen to any new small business that opens up the company after 30 days of the entry into force of the law. Therefore, either the revision of this article or its total suspension is necessary. The proposed amendment to the law introduces very few changes on how to choose the body of internal functioning, the chamber remains closed and non-transparent. Members of the Economic Council and members of the Assembly shall not be elected but shall be appointed as similar candidates confirming all decisions without question. I believe that the proposal for this law should go in the direction of liberation from the parafiscal burdens on Croatian entrepreneurs. The crisis that hit the Croatian economy due to the virus's coronary epidemic further stressed the need for costs of discharging Croatian entrepreneurs from the charge. The beginning of this economic crisis confirms that compulsory membership in the HGK is not necessary to demonstrate the behaviour of the HGK itself and the emergence of alternative associations that have much better articulated the needs of entrepreneurs than the HGK itself does. According to the associations themselves, which emerged as a response to a slow reaction by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding economic measures, they have far more fulfilled their purpose than the HGK which has clearly become a purpose to themselves. Also mandatory membership is not necessary because there is a great interest of Croatian entrepreneurs in association on the basis of voluntary membership. We have an example in Croatia where one of the organizations in just a few months of existence managed to gather several thousand members who at this difficult time voluntarily pay membership fees if they see the purpose. Monopolising the representation of entrepreneurs that are not actually made by the HGK does not make sense and should be given to Croatian entrepreneurs the opportunity to decide who and whether they want to be represented at all and, accordingly, to pay or not to pay membership fees. In this way, the HGK charges around 300 million kuna annually and I believe that entrepreneurs have the right to decide what they will do with this money. Whether to save it for their business or invest in association. This example enjoys the great support of Croatian entrepreneurs and the long-standing practice of HGK which shows that their work has no excessive benefit for the business of our entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the HGK has become more of a political organisation than is supporting the Croatian economy. Insufficient transparency of work, criminal activities within the HGK itself, and political involvement have also contributed to this public status of the institution. I therefore believe that this institution should be reformed in the direction of voluntary membership and greater functionality, and in accordance with sound market principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57570	The next one will be spoke by Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić, pardon Marijana Puljak, I'm sorry. Honorable representative Marijana Puljak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57571	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues here I will only use this debate for a few comments on the presentations we have heard here. I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Bačić who have been troubled by the fact that the opposition in February supported the proposal of the law of the respected representative of Troscott here as, here I will quote him who said which of the laws does not resemble. And so the opposition united, 65 votes were for what it has never said so far, and now here's the law that proposes this reform also an opposition that criticises the law. So I'll just say here's the one, he had, that proposal in February so he had broad support for both MPs and the public because he actually very simply solved that problem, and that's the problem of mandatory membership in or mandatory membership in this chamber. It was also the first reading, you could have accepted it, so perhaps if there were any proposals to update add amendments to the second reading, but here it happened as someone had already said, there was an interesting game with this, balancing on the majority of 76, so it should not have been allowed for someone in the majority to support one opposition proposal. But right here in front of us, we have a law that you call reform law, as I said in the opening statement, the law is inconclusive, and I've asked a lot of questions, it's incomprehensible to different people, it interprets it differently. So who has the power to abolish membership fees, can the HGK Assembly, by its decision on membership fees, say that the membership fee is zero or this law prescribes it, why not for all categories of their members, but above all, what we are interested in is not lifting the membership fee but abolishing mandatory membership and that is what is problematic. Here we have heard the representatives of the majority who went down in this and here and just now, fellow Pavić, descending in the performance of good things and good roles of HGK, I don't know "Digital Chamber", "Bought Croatian", "Green Flower", "Blue Flower", etc., is all, some good examples and good activities of the Chamber of Commerce. However, here is the only serious research conducted so far among members of the Chamber of Commerce, so among legal entities that should use these public services and all the services of the Chamber of Commerce, it says that 77.4% of the members are not satisfied, not at all satisfied or simply not satisfied with the work of the HGK. And so with these services is whether those who are so praised simply are not satisfied, not to mention again that almost 90% have never been contacted by the chamber, 91% do not know the name of their referent, so they are simply not satisfied with the services that this chamber provides, that they are satisfied so there would be no problem with voluntary membership or with voluntary membership. People here we saw at the time of this crisis how a colleague used to say they rush into organizations when they're satisfied with their services. So I say there is and she mentions it, I say a colleague has these associations that have collected nearly 20,000 members in a few months because they have seen, well-being, they have seen that this organization is fighting for their rights and their well-being. He mentioned, one of the services was here and the court of honor, the court of honor abolished last year since 1 December 2020, the court of honor did not act for saving in the crown crisis, did he return again, did I say something wrong, returned but on 1 December was abolished for saving, so there was an explanation from the Chamber of Commerce. So here we are, not to go any further on what we consider and what we stand for, we are in favour of voluntary membership. If members are satisfied with the services they receive from a chamber they will rush and will gladly be members of and such a chamber, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57572	Now, the Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57573	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I think that we cannot discuss the HGK exclusively on payment of membership fees and discuss whether membership should be voluntary or not. I think the whole dimension of this problem is wider and needs to be looked at. I'm one of the ones who's against destruction to build. So, the easiest way to bring it down is to say we're going to build something again, but such a policy has cost Croatia a lot, especially at the beginning of the '90s. A lot of things about HGK weren't good, but they weren't all that bad. So HGK is an institution that is over 180 years old. with its tradition, with its purpose, with the aim of connecting entrepreneurs and facilitating their approach and, as such, we must decide responsibly. But back to the point, and what I think is the essence and what seems to me to be missing today is why the HGK is weak today. So the chamber cannot be strong if the economy is weak, and the Croatian economy is one of the weakest economies in the EU. So some of the countries that we used to see in our backs like Romania, like Hungary, are now by GDP per capital far ahead of Croatia. There is still only Bulgaria behind us in the 27 Europeans, and probably not already next year. Therefore, the Croatian economy is the weakest in the EU and this is the key problem of the dimension of what we are discussing today. And why is that? Mostly because our best technology fins, our technology companies that were prestigious were destroyed in conversion and privatisation. One reason is certainly corruption among the highest in the EU in Croatia. Certainly another reason is that there are companies that literally suckle public money, which exist in Croatia under the patronage of a state-owned corrupt mechanism that 80 to 90% of the incomes are made exclusively by public money and such companies are destroying and suffocating healthy attempts by small companies to break into the market. The economy is also weak because we are too dependent on tourism, so it is not diversified, and at the time of the pandemic it has certainly proved to be how voltile it is. The economy is weak because the entrepreneurship risk insurance system, so insurance of the enterprise in Croatia, is nothing. You yourself know how difficult it is to get a business credit with business banks and that is one of the reasons why our economy is weak. The economy is weak because someone said it, and we have a shortage of labour. Yeah, but why do we have it? Because the educated structure was damaged, in the 1990s half was a STEM area, half of social science, today it is 80, 85% on the side of social sciences, different private colleges with which unfortunately many people cannot find adequate employment. Yes, the economy is weak, and because the nation is old, we are one of the oldest countries in the EU right behind Italy and the economy is because companies like INFOBIP or NANOBIT are unfortunately the exception in Croatia, and not the rule, and that is the fundamental problem of the Croatian economy. And that's why the chamber in those conditions is a different institution. But as far as the concrete law is concerned, unlike the time when the daily newspaper's headings filled stuffed animals along the mountain-mounts of the mountains in Croatia, some shift has been made. What I see, I see a reduction in the number of HGK employees and what I welcome is a proposal for a decision that practically 97% of business entities have less than 30 million kunas and less than 50 employees, membership practically chamber contributions are abolished and that's what's good. But what I think must be the main focus is how to help exports in the next period, especially in countries with which we have the largest trade in goods. So, it's not China let's not fool ourselves, it's Germany, Italy, Austria and there should be exclusive focus and HGK and I think that's where the greatest effort should be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57574	The next one will be a respected representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57575	Here's a respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. So it is more than obvious that the intentions of those who wanted to change this very law, but not only this HGK Act but also the tourist communities and the Chamber of Commerce were more issues of the moment of pre-election campaign than of the very content and quality of the institution. The institutions exist almost two centuries ago, and it is not our invention, but Europe and the world. What can the Chamber of Commerce itself give us? So it is said that there are actually three tasks of chambers, which is improving the development of entrepreneurship, then establishing and developing all kinds of business relations with abroad and encouraging research into development and innovation. Here is exactly, one colleague has already mentioned the meaning of the Chamber of Commerce itself must be primarily these last two, which is to encourage and develop business relations with abroad and encourage research into development and innovation. What the Chamber of Commerce is now offering, so when the motive was to lower and reduce membership fees, then surely no one has thought about those who, for example, ever since. the average pay of 1,083 kunas or the strongest who pay 3.973 kunas per month and see wonders are not these and such rebellions, but this has just turned out to be some kind of mass or more populist measure that wanted to satisfy most. I'm so that in any case every institution is profiled to develop, to provide as high-quality services as possible, but it's also good to question how high-quality it is. If we look at that every third country in Europe has a mandatory membership in chambers, then we must also say that these are the ones in our environment, Austria, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain that are precisely our largest trading partners from this group. In the Chamber of Commerce itself, we have seen changes happen and there has been a reduction in the number of employees, but what is still very important is the network of county chambers that are very much relevant to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in our counties. Also, what I mentioned, it is very important that these county chambers give incentives and support to entrepreneurs in organising different fairs, that there is a possibility of subsidising precisely in performing on internal and external markets, and that is the quality that will nevertheless be recognised by these measures by our entrepreneurs. Let's not forget their public authority. I'd say the same thing, here's a little more time, right on this one. 39. where it may need to be arranged in some other way, since it is not clear here if the membership is declared or not declared within 30 days. What does this mean for a future period, whether or not it can be recalled or not, or normally new entrepreneurs have the right to be released from the year or two now? So perhaps this article should be modified in order to make it more clear what this means otherwise, within what time-limit, by the end of the year or by which time the member himself can apply or log out of the membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57576	We have more replicas, the Honorable Representative Boris has the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57577	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you were talking about whether it was a pre-election time or not, now from this debate clear today when the day was that time of pre-election activities, the Bridge wanted to nominate its mayoral candidate, he was the one who brought it up to be there to catch the people that he was against all of it, to bring it all down, and that in the end, here was the result that they got and basically ends every one of their reforms when we talk about the Bridge. What's important, we've ordered through this first reading we haven't heard anything new, if you've succeeded I'm nothing, except we're back on mandatory or voluntary, voluntarily however you like, although we're giving examples and mixed systems or mandatory systems, it's no good. So we can't get anyone to do this, so it's up to us to try and solve this issue and ensure that this Chamber of Commerce can function that they can't be funded if there's nothing in the budget, what other countries are doing, and that they continue to do their jobs for the benefit of the employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57578	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57579	Thank you very much. Yes, that's right, so now is the time to then and all that is suggested here to then modify and have time until the second reading certainly give every proposal and vision of what should be fixed, but certainly the goal of all of us is to make these institutions quality, to be recognized by the public, by entrepreneurs not to be their own purpose, but that as such they must also deliver the best results and be support to the enterprise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57580	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57581	Dear colleagues. Here I welcome your intention, or because you advocate the clarification of this article. 39. which is really vague and opens up a lot of questions, and if I don't get into the debate now, which was before whether it was a pre-election campaign or all that, I'd like to ask you to comment on how 77.4% of the members of the chamber are dissatisfied with the work of that chamber and their services. So, in addition to what we've heard here, the number of good services the chamber provides is still large, so nearly three-quarters of the members dissatisfied with these services, so as you comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57582	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57583	I don't know from that research who did it whether they were really covering all members of the Chamber of Commerce or just one segment. If, then, all entrepreneurs had to and were asked to vote, whether they were satisfied or not, then we could discuss it. But if it was one sample of research, then I don't think it's appropriate to discuss it that way. And I think if 500 were units then it's really too small a sample to say here's a job not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57584	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have started your discussion about the abolition of the initiative for the removal of certain institutions that we had here in HS and from TZ and HGK, but you have mentioned the services provided by HGK and now that we look at all these public services to transfer everything to the state administration as much as this would be the burden and cost of the Republic of Croatia and then we look on the other side of this initiative and why it came from last year and we look at this all going in the direction of actually changing a certain set of furniture. But when we look and look at everything for the shift of anyone, to destroy the entire institution where we end up like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57586	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57587	Yeah, it doesn't make sense if we don't fit some people, then it doesn't make sense to end institutions. That better results should be sought in any case, but the very institution that we can also list a number of positive jobs and otherwise what the Chamber of Commerce itself is doing then it is something that is truly valuable and should really recognize all these qualities that it has created. And certainly through further promotion and Croatian products and Croatian brand, and also by encouraging entrepreneurship I think it can give a lot more than it represents a burden that I don't think it is. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57588	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57589	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Peric, you mentioned the importance of the county chambers, so I would like these two cartoons about my county chamber in Sibenik. In Sibenik-Knin County, more than 82% of insurance workers are employed by legal entities. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. Which we That's exactly what small entrepreneurs I've talked about before, who in HGK, especially in the county, can find their legal adviser and financial expert and so on. In your county I suppose there are similar activities like ours, trade, tourism, construction, and that's why we have professional groups that are closer to travel agencies and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57590	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57591	Yes, thank you very much. I haven't been able to touch my colleagues just as well as my county and county chambers. Indeed, over the past year and year, we have an increase in the number of employees compared to the best years in Croatia. Thus, it is evidence that despite the crowns and everything else, the difficulties they are, the impact of small entrepreneurship is very significant. And what I would also like to say is that in my county, we also have very significant sectors that have come from the meditative industry, which are very high-quality and that have developed as large, large, in fact now are also significant companies not by the number of employees as per, by the traffic they are working.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57592	Thank you. She will now speak to the esteemed representative Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57593	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, Honored Secretary of State Mikush Zigman, Honored Representatives and Representatives. Therefore, the HGK also needs a valuable institution that monitors the needs of entrepreneurs, but this monitoring should be more optimal. After 30. It is necessary to transform and modernise this institution which is actually being implemented several years ago, from rationalisation and reorganisation of business to new services according to the needs of the businessmen, which I will talk about a little later. The aim of the law, as already stated, is to increase the quality and proactiveness of the HGK, and to transform it into a more efficient and efficient service that is turned to economies. Therefore, the existing system is changed and the possibility of voluntary membership is introduced for the first group of members which accounts for almost 97% of all members of the HGK, the possibility of a choice is introduced, whether members of the first group want to pay and 42 kuna or not. And who are members of the first group has already been told all about it, so I wouldn't explain it further. What I'm saying is that when we talk about paying membership fees that the chamber is due to the pandemic, but also the earthquake has freed its members who have been affected by the consequences of coronaryvirus and the earthquake of chamber contributions, and as far as newly established business entities are concerned, they do not pay membership fees in the first and often in the second year of business. In addition, new entities shall be provided with all necessary, necessary support and assistance from writing a business plan, consultation on laws, etc. As regards the chamber budget itself, it is based on membership fees, the proportion of planned expenditure for workers is 32% lower than the previous budget when that share was significantly higher, and the reduction of that share is the result of the already started process of transformation of the chamber and the rationalisation of business. It is very important to point out once again that the number of employees has dropped here from 670 to 380 employees, so more than 40% of employees have been reduced. On the other hand, all services remain in line with the needs. I especially highlight education, courses, lectures, HGK conferences. Number of educations in 19. It was 504. The people who followed it were 21,000. In the past 2020. Despite the coronary crisis, 15,500 people participated in HGK's education. The new services provided by the chamber should also be mentioned, which is the making of credits, VEP platforms, a digital chamber that provides a completely new dimension of e-service from e-Learning, e-Laws, e-Sams, e-financing, etc., and the chamber performs as already in the debate several times today, and public powers are 15 and are prescribed by special regulations. One of them is the establishment and operation of a court of honor, a permanent arbitration tribunal and a peace centre. In particular, I would like to emphasise the importance of a permanent arbitration tribunal, which is an arbitration institution which organises and ensures the functioning of arbitration courts. The court is one of the leading arbitration institutions in the region with great experience in resolving both international and domestic business disputes and from different economic sectors. What is a great benefit of arbitration dispute resolution is precisely the speed of the process that takes between 4 and 10 months in the arbitration court process. Also great benefit is party autonomy and efficiency. The arbitration procedure is, in fact, an alternative dispute settlement in which one or more arbitration tribunals decide on the dispute, and that is why only the time of the trial is very short and the average is between 4 and 10 months. And for the end of "Bought Croatian", a commendable action that has been going on for 24 years 10,000 companies participate. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57594	Dear Representative Bourkan, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57595	Thank you. Dear Representative Buric. Here, as you listed earlier the great benefits that the HGK membership brings, in your opinion the first group that will be released from mandatory membership fee, do you think suddenly everyone will stop paying from that first group or will still continue to pay for that membership fee in view of what benefits it has from membership in the HGK?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57596	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57597	Dear Mr. Brkan. So, as I have already stated, one of the amendments or news in this new HGK Act is the possibility of voluntary membership exclusively in the first group of HGK members. Whether they will actually continue to pay and 42 kuna per month and continue to use all the benefits of the entire catalogue of services and public powers of the HGK, or not to use only part of these services, it is indeed up to the selection of members that are part of that first group under particularly prescribed conditions, two out of three must satisfy. So, I here really can't speculate at all about who will, who won't, but to assume that many of them really appreciate the service of the public authority provided by the HGK because according to my personal experience [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] at a high level. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57598	Representative Peric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57599	Here is just a brief comment, there has been a mention of how membership fees or membership fees are a tax that is then recorded and prevents public procurement. So it's a contract between the HGK and the IRS that they're monitoring their payments and keeping records, but it's no longer a debt to the HGK membership factor and an element that challenges someone's ability to participate in public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57600	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57601	Dear Mrs. Peric. So membership fee is membership fee, tax is tax, we know very well the difference between one category and another.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57602	The Honorable Representative Troscott has again raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57603	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, I think it's a clear fact of what a tax is and what a parafiscal imposition is. I can personally show you I have solutions here that companies cannot participate in a public competition for what they can or can, but the solution is therefore confirmed or the tax debt is settled. And in that sense, because of the non-payment of membership fees to certain companies, he cannot enter a public tender. And regarding the definition of taxes and parafiscal burdens, it's quite.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57604	Comrade Troscott, why are you doing this again, why are you abusing the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure? I must give you a foundation. The 240th century, 1st century, is a reminder that you take away words, and you can't do that. ... Yeah, well, the public also sees how you behave, past the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, on behalf of the green-left bloc, the respected representative Sandra Bencic will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57605	Thank you. Here's because my colleague Troscott couldn't say what he said until the end, and he actually said in order to better inform the public, I need to confirm that, yes, you can't get confirmation that there's no tax debt if you owe HOK or HGK, do you know that? I guess you know so much. Also, if you don't have that confirmation, you can't report for tenders, and the IRS will also express that debt to you and charge for and in the executive procedure when there is this debt and I express myself and you can see it. So, yes, it is called otherwise, however, the method of payment and the consequences of non-payment are the same as when you do not pay the tax when asking for confirmation of the absence of tax debt. So that's the first thing. The second thing, we were already in that first debate that we had about the HGK, which is that the institution itself and what is its purpose and purpose should not be destroyed because of the fact that the affairs were tied to it, that is, the fact and because it was perceived in public as actually a place to entangle certain people. That the institution needs to be reformed, that it needs to be adapted to the 21st century and the requirements for business in the 21st century, but also that we need to enable what is done in a small part now, which is that it is actually voluntary membership, or that it is about paying for those services that the entrepreneurs themselves want to pay for. In order for HGK to do so, it must, of course, be modernised. We have to be fair again and say that some things have been done, for example, I've been thinking a year and a half ago, I don't even know if she's been involved in testing the digital chamber. The digital chamber is a good project, it's well designed and it's well designed, but now I'm going to say but, therefore, it gives the data that we should have provided for free to all economic operators in the Republic of Croatia long ago. These are data on the business of individual companies, but also data on trends, means on exports, imports, etc., so all the data that you sometimes need in business so that you can do analysis and that you can make business decisions based on this analysis. So we have 30 years of HGK, the last 10, 15 years of our citizens or our entrepreneurs have to pay this service to private companies such as “business Croatia” because we haven’t provided them with this service either through HOK or HGK until recently, and what is available on the Digital Chamber is not exactly what you can get with a private provider and service. That's important information. All that information is public information, so you don't need to go from firm to firm to collect them, or any special forms. So, we could have had this a long time ago and it would actually make it possible for all our economic operators to know first whether they're doing business with, whether they're solvable, what kind of credit, etc., right, no, that had to be paid. This service when you pay a private provider is extremely expensive, is far more expensive than the HGK membership fee. So it's a good project, a good step, it needs more, it needs further improvement. However, what I was saying today in the replica of the minister, if we are going, and I think we need to go towards the transformation of the HGK to really be a service to entrepreneurs for those needs that we have as a need for business in the 21st century. Then we really need to evaluate the last 30 years. and see which of these services really need our entrepreneurs, which of these services may not need more or need much less, right. Similarly, these are new types of services that could be provided to our entrepreneurs, especially in this type of foreign market exit. I can tell you as someone who tried to use some, some of the services sometimes, especially to go out on foreign markets, you don't have one on one person to deal with, who's some akant manager, so whoever would have their own, their own portfolio and deal with it to really let him burn it with external suppliers, etc., so we haven't made it possible in these 30 years. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57606	With that, thank you very much, that concludes the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met. As long as it's been a while and more than expected, we'll take one break by 17 and 55 minutes. It's 5:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.56 HOURS]] The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons. In view of the recent debate in the first reading, let us just briefly remind ourselves. The Agency for Hydrocarbons was founded in 2014. the basis of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which was first adopted that same year. The Agency was established as a regulatory body responsible for monitoring the activities in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in accordance with the amendments to that law and amendments to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. The Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products is on 1 September 2017. attached to the hydrocarbons Agency, which has led to new obligations and the area of action. Furthermore, 2018. A new Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation has been adopted this year in line with relevant EU directives as well as the best world practices of countries with long-term experience in hydrocarbon research and exploitation, but which in the energy transition want to place emphasis on renewable energy. The aim of amending and supplementing this law is therefore to strengthen the agency in two directions. The first to target its activity according to low-carbon transition development projects, the second to ensure that all mechanisms are provided in order to continue to fulfil the tasks related to the establishment, storage and renewal of Croatian oil and petroleum products. Thus, the law harmonizes the activities of the agency relating to research and exploitation of geothermal waters and CO2 storage in underground structures. The Agency's activities in the process of amending and supplementing spatial plans, the power to carry out oil mining work for the purpose of assessing geothermal potential and as a proposing for the establishment of a development society in the Government of the Republic of Croatia are expanded. The activities of trade on large oil derivatives are being introduced in order to enrol in the court register. A new composition of the Governing Council of the Agency for Hydrocarbons is proposed, together with members of the state officials of the government responsible for energy, finance and spatial planning. The two members may be of the order of management of civil servants with relevant expertise in the field of energy and the economy. The appropriate deadlines for submitting the report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia are also extended because the deadlines so far have been too short, and the law is termnologically harmonised in accordance with the Law on the State Administration System. In this law, an extensive parliamentary debate was held in the first reading and on the basis of the same proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the proposal is an additional extension of art. 3. The law establishing the Agency in such a way as to give authority to the Agency for the Development and Application of New Sustainable Technologies for the Use of Renewable Energy. We think this is a good solution because we have an intense period in which the rapid implementation of certain technologies for which not all pre-conditions are necessarily created, especially when it comes to inclusion, about including them in spatial plans as new innovative technologies. In this regard, the Agency has a database of geological and geophysical data, as well as data on drillings, or on the overall infrastructure currently used for the purpose of research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, geothermal waters, and underground gas storage, and in this respect it is appropriate to manage resources and potentials. Using these data, the usability of energy potential and the potential of new sustainable technologies and new energy sources for concrete production can be maximised. In the context of the adoption of this law, and regarding the recent visit by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who adopted a positive assessment by the European Commission last week on the Croatian National Recovery and Resistance Programme, this should also be stressed. The Commission actively monitors the efforts of the Republic of Croatia to take advantage of its potential for geothermal sources in a function not only for the production of electricity but also for heat energy, and also to enable a low-carbon transition to storage and storage mechanisms of CO2 into geological structures. That's how the agency's activity in the last 3 years was recognized. Worked intensively to activate this valuable resource and made a significant effort to promote the potential of geothermal energy. Efforts to invest in geothermal energy through European initiatives, which will focus on the activation of local community projects that have shown interest in these projects, have proved to be correct. In the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, funds amounting to nearly EUR 30 million for testing 6 of the 9 sites observed for which complete documentation will be prepared, and investigations will be carried out at two locations, clearly at the Agency's expense. In doing so, the emphasis will be on connecting existing heat systems or building new ones, since it is an obligation for the Republic of Croatia to raise the share of renewable sources in Toplinarry at a rate of 1.1% per year until 2030. The bearer of these activities like I said will be an agency. Activities are also planned to continue through cohesion funds which have a longer implementation time. The locations proposed are Velika Gorica, Zaprešić, Osijek, Vukovar, Požega, Vinkovci, Donji Miholjac, Djurdjevac and Sisak. This is the results of the submitted and continuous work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this Ministry and the Agency, which has, by means of estimates, isolated the proposed projects, but certainly new harmonised legislative proposals with the EU acquis, which, clearly, have also been encouraged. With this step, the Republic of Croatia could become one of the first countries within the EU, thus opening geothermal potential through synergies between state agencies and local authorities. The Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons will contribute to faster and more effective implementation of the steps necessary for... those projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to adopt the amendments in question and to supplement the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57610	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57611	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I will look back at this part that has been changed from first reading to second reading where we now have this supplement in art. 3 and in business related to the development and application of new sustainable technologies, the use of renewable energy sources. Since already geothermal waters are mentioned as areas to be dealt with by the Agency, somehow all of this draws on hydrogen and then, looking into the future of this Agency, instead of being called the Agency for Hydrocarbons, in a decade and over, it could somehow be called a hydrogen and geothermal water agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57612	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57613	Thank you for your question. Of course, that idea of yours stands, this one, and it's certain that in the coming years, the Agency will go in that direction, that it will deal more with renewable sources and technologies than with the hydrocarbonic one itself, because it's simply a process that will go, and as it's going to be called, let's not be this one now, too many optimists, it's going to be in a while, just let's do everything we've drawn up, and then it's easy and this one, and give, if we need a new name.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57614	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57615	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. Since I come from the Krapina-Zagorian County, which is here, we are slowly beginning to recognize our geothermal potential, we are aware that we will not be able to produce electronic energy, we simply do not have a high enough temperature in this area, but we can use it for heating, or for some communal things, but still, I would like to remind you all once again, dear state secretary to ask you, we see ourselves that we have an extremely successful branch of our auto-industry, respected Mr. Romec and all the successes he has achieved. Can we draw attention for a moment from the exploitation of hydrocarbons and turn to some other kind of energy, whether it's from a renewable source or from any other? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57616	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57617	So this is all that, thank you for your replica. What I've been saying is, in fact, what you've just said to me, clearly, about hydrocarbons, we have to keep in the direction of keeping some sort of level because simply of these products, or derivatives, it's going to take some time, but our efforts in terms of not only looking at the future but also real now action and thinking and organising is in the direction of renewable sources. So the heat that will be very demanding to switch to renewable energy sources is in large part this Agency and this Law and everything that comes out of this can help us, and those sources that are even less gradients for tolining will certainly be suitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57618	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57619	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State. So in the context of this extension, 3 and the Agency's powers, especially in the development of new technologies in the field of biothermal energy, I would only repeat what we mentioned at first reading, and this dimension of international cooperation, which the Agency has and in the development of such international cooperation on the development of new technologies, given that we have many partner countries that are willing to explore this area in the Republic of Croatia together with our Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57620	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57621	Thank you. This is what I replied to you last time, there is absolutely no obstacle to it, with, here, tomorrow when day by day, and when we come to the agenda with the Law on Renewable Sources and highly effective cogeneration, as it is about geothermal energy, which is also renewable, there you will see that in some articles we have transposed the directive, not only to the Directive, but also to our opinion that we can and co-operate with individual countries and do joint projects and do statistical transmissions and all that, but that is all in the direction of what you are now saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57622	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'll open the hearing then. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mosta will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marin Miletic, who is missing, who is losing his right to debate. So, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Josip Djakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57623	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which needs to be associated with the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons and through the work of the Agency. As we have already heard, the Agency is becoming an important factor in the energy transition in a way that is actively involved in the research and development of geothermal energy projects, both for the production of electricity and heat and for the development of carbon dioxide storage and disposal projects in geological structures. This Law will coordinate the activities of the Agency relating to research and exploitation of geothermal waters and the necessary storage of gas. In the first reading, the emphasis was on adopted documents of the National Energy Development Strategy and... the national energy and climate plan by which the Republic of Croatia clearly and unequivocally adopts and the focus of its energy policy sets the objectives of European green policy, and the development of a low carbon society in the light of the potential for the development of new renewable energy and new technologies; 3. the final proposal of the law passed and introduced the authority of the Agency for the Development of New Technologies in the area of sustainable and renewable energy sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agency has also recognised and processed data that speak of the great geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia, which has not been sufficiently identified and not been used enough and through European initiatives will allow future investments in geothermal energy as a single stable renewable energy source. The Republic of Croatia continues to make great efforts to develop the business climate and improve the overall investment environment by exploring and exploiting hydrocarbons is a step forward in our country's economic development and exploitation research activities giving a strong incentive both directly linked to both the following industries and the service activities. The management of hydrocarbons also supports the development of new industries and activities aimed at exporting goods and services. All this will lead to the creation of new jobs, as well as the development of academic and scientific institutions of the Republic of Croatia through the need for new professional staff of different profiles. Investments in RH research will cost us nothing, and experience from other countries shows that 60% of such investments remain in the country where it happens. We can see how much in this covid crisis modern societies rely on energy, so the consequences of the crisis also feel significant in the energy sector. The recovery from the crisis must focus on investments that must trigger a new European economic model more resilient, more secure, more modern, more efficient. In April, in its Resolution on a coordinated action by the EU to combat the pandemic of covids and its consequences, it urged the Commission to propose a package for reconstruction and development that should basically have a green component following the Green Deal guidelines. The green recovery is not only possible but it is crucial because Europe would twice lose if we mobilise investment to restore the old economy before we make it green and sustainable. We need to give priority to what might be a significant contribution to structural change. According to some estimates in 2020, The share of energy from renewable sources has increased by 5%, making up almost 30% of the demand for electricity in the world. Projects such as the European Green Agreement and other national development plans have great potential to strengthen our economy and contribute to a new model of economic progress. As a country of great natural resources, the Republic recognises the importance of this ambitious plan. It highlights the objectives already largely covered by the Energy Development Strategy of Croatia by 2030. with a view to the 2050 integrated national energy and climate plan by 2030. Oil will be a globally important energy for a long time, and gas remains an important transition energy towards completely renewable energy sources. After a few decades we re-launched the exploration of oil and gas in Croatia. We attracted renowned investors, and after a long time new gas supplies were found to increase domestic production. Oil and gas will be replaced in the coming decades and we need to reduce current dependence by research and exploitation of the potential we have. But for the first time, we began to use the entire energy of the country, including its sustainable part. We have directed our knowledge and experience towards geothermal energy, a clean and sustainable source of energy that is entirely on the line with the European Commission's objectives and ideas of green Europe. There is currently a global search for new renewable sources that can be used for competitive energy production. Geothermal energy has great potential because it uses the same knowledge and technology as in finding other hydrocarbons. Croatia has excellent starting positions here, our Pannonian pool has as much as 60% more geothermal gradient than European averages, and the overall potential is 500 megawatts from geothermal energy. Geotherms offer real transition, and potential projects in Croatia rest on wells originally designed for the purpose of research and exploitation of oil and gas. Now these wells are given a second purpose and enable the production of electricity, heating of homes and plastics, and the capture and storage of carbon dioxide in the context of mandatory oil and petroleum products. A strategy to reduce the quantities of compulsory stocks held in immaterial form in favour of increasing the physical material quantities of compulsory stocks shall ensure the security of supply of the Republic of Croatia. The Agency for Hydrocarbons meets the most efficient and profitable models of potential geothermal development projects that will bring multiple benefits in the final local communities and offer better and better quality life. Finally, we can conclude that research and exploitation bring a number of benefits, new jobs will be opened and sustainable development of the domestic industry should be used for the development of new technologies related to new energy sources or the development of new forms of renewables that can be used for competitive energy production. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club welcomes, supports these amendments and amendments to the law, and we think this will be very good for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57624	The next club of MPs is that of the SDP, and a respected representative, Branko Grcic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57625	Listening, oh, excuse me, listening to my colleague Djakic at one point, I felt like I was in the best-case state of what he would call a spaceship yesterday that was in orbit, Virginia or something, so it seemed so convincing that it would all be nice and wonderful that you impressed me. Everything will be green, everything will be very productive, even the vice president dressed in that style today, the green jacket, means general joy. Okay. At this time, it's good to make a little joke. So, in my first reading of this law, I made several key remarks, not to repeat them today, but it is very important, given that we do not see important changes in the law in this second reading, it is very important that these issues be resolved in some way. So despite the questions at the first reading, and yet the one we insisted on some of the answers did not get unfortunately. One question is about the spatial arrangement for spatial plans and the possibility of intervention and the agency to which this law is assigned, among other things, and to participate in spatial plan-solving assumptions for the implementation of projects under renewable energy sources, the question that is, what is the impact limit? So this is what remains unclear, whether the agency, especially through the Ministry of Spatial Planning, can impose certain solutions on local authorities when it comes to spatial planning documents? So that question remained irresponsible. We have mentioned here the possibility of strategic projects being installed into a state spatial plan that brings together HS and that would give one power to a spatial plan, supremely speaking to the spatial document, and in this way would be resolved, the issue would be resolved. The second, second, second story, which was related to a law granting the possibility of hiring a particular company, is not said whether it is public or private, then it means either public or private, which could be involved in the management of supplies, so oil processing. It also mentions that it is possible to be in some kind of built-up state-owned capacity. So we hire an external company, so some kind of otusoring to manage state reserves in state facilities. A little illogical, illogical at least because of the fact that we already have such a firm, we have Yanaf. What do we need next to Yanaf? Here is the only issue of capacity, whether Janaf has enough capacity to offer the state with its regular needs to store one part of the stock. If not, the state as a public undertaking can help him invest financially and secure these capacities and manage them. There's no reason to introduce a third entity, there's no reason to. So my question about it, unfortunately, last time I didn't get an answer, I probably won't get one today, but I'm warning you because as I say, we're going to watch that process run, so we're going to see what happens in a year, two, three, four, whether or not that part of the law is going to be applied in a certain situation, right? And what I would like to mention at the end, in the very text of the second reading of the law, is some consideration of what is actually being changed in the law, and the basis of the debate in the first reading and the change that gives the agency the power to participate in the development of new technologies in this area is. I don't know. I honestly don't know how the agency's gonna be involved in a job like that. New technologies are known how they develop, how much they invest in such projects, who are usually the bearers of these projects, means some institutions that have PayPin, which have therefore a deep history and a strong, strong history in the development of certain technologies. The agency can be a transporter, but it can't possibly be, in my opinion, maybe I'm looking at it wrong, but the agency can't be the key holder of the business of developing new technologies. So I think it's completely unnecessary. I guess you put that on because you had to at least put something in there to show that the debate in the first reading wasn't unnecessary and meaningless, right? Here, so much for me today, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57626	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the honourable representative, Davor Dretar, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57627	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, distinguished and respected colleagues and respected colleagues. Now I really look like the one who still stays with the microphone at the end of the game, so let me see, I really won't be long. The fact is that this topic deserves a much more important, much wider, much more lasting and much more contentious discussion than we are currently having here. The fact is that no one reasonable has anything against the establishment of the Agency for Hydrocarbons or the extension of its powers. But as recently as we discussed here some new developments in the Internet services market and in the energy market, here we are now. We must all be aware that there is a whole new time ahead, we must all be aware that we are here in July 2021. in the moment and time that someone will call 20 to 30 years of age a stone age, whether it's informative, whether it's an energy development of civilization. It is absolutely certain that we have problems implementing the most modern technological solutions because they simply do not yet have the capacity or are too expensive to be used in everyday life. So, the hydrocarbons wanted it or not, and as great contaminants and very expensive in exploitation, and then, of course, later and in application, there's still one thing left, I'm not going to say a single energy solution for the economy of our entire planetary system. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I can only add a few sentences, we're talking about geothermal waters here and extending the Agency's powers, no doubt that's the case. I have the honour of coming from Krapina-Zagorje County where we have recently discussed and about the report of our REGE where it is extremely difficult to say anything, although I am a member of the opposition part of the County Assembly, our mayor is doing excellently, our REGE is doing excellently. We don't have enough, we can't express ourselves professionally, these temperatures to produce electrical but we have quite enough to heat up, if nothing else to start school, kindergartens, county or municipal buildings, and later who knows how, I hope all the better and better. But let us just take a moment in history, since 2014. With the goal of exploring new oil and gas sites of the then government of Zoran Milanovic, you remember all the newspapers were full, Croatia was said to be new Norway. There is oil, there is gas in the Adriatic, the agency has given up, of course, the target or focus has shifted to Slavonia. But we still have to remind ourselves, regardless of the fact that I admit that without hydrocarbons, the economy of this entire planet won't be able to last much longer. Their exploitation as a base energy in the economy must come to where this age of this century would be, at its beginning. In this context, the search for hydrocarbons as energy should not necessarily be a priority but a well-known or well-recognized reserve that will not disappear anywhere as such and will always be useful, but, of course, less as energy and more as raw material for the organic chemical industry. The expansion of the agency's activity on geothermal water and gas storage was announced in 2017, it noted that the state will only receive 7 billion kuna per year from drilling oil in Slavonia. Those billions, we're still waiting. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has already granted permits to explore geothermal waters for energy purposes, for 4 investigative areas in Slavonia, Podravina and Međimurje. The “Legrad 1” research permits were granted by the company “Go Power Energy Development”, the company “ENSOL” from Zagreb received two permits at the research premises of Ernestinovo and Merhatovec, a permit for research of geothermal waters in the research area of Lunjakovec-Kutnjak, owned by the Varazdin County of the Municipality of Mali Bukovec. However, let us only warn, at the same time, in strategic projects in preparation in five Slavonian counties suddenly emerged projects of geothermal potential, Osijek-Baranja County 75 million kuna, Požeko-Slavon County 88 million kuna, Virovitičko-Podravska 20 million kuna, Vukovar-Srijem County 180 million kuna. It is obvious that research and use of geothermal waters for different purposes is intensified from various sources and based on different foundations. But let me ask without bad intentions, why is there such a focus on geothermal potentials, and in our strategies it says something completely different? Geothermal energy is obviously not focused on our 2030 strategic plans. Let me ask you, however, as one of the briefly said Zagorec, why not? We, if anything else in Zagorje, can do well and develop well. Let us return once again and for a hundred times in this respected home mentioned solar panels as they were called by many MPs here. Currently, Krapina-Zagorje County is performing an extraordinary project to install solar panels on roofs of primary, secondary schools and other county-owned buildings, we are developing this project at an extraordinary level and we are doing very well. There are currently 70% of solar panels in the EU on the roofs of residential buildings, so I will continue to advocate. But let me ask, what about the Directive on renewable energy sources that aims to empower smaller producers of renewable energy and strengthen energy cooperatives? That's what we talked about recently, and we'll talk about it tomorrow. This Directive requires Member States to ensure that all residents, regardless of whether they live in family houses or buildings, receive the right to produce renewable energy which we currently have to recognise by law is not yet or will be allowed. I would remind once again that energy independence is one of the most important components of the independence of every nation in the area where it lives. The fact is that we have our own water, we have our rivers and we can, we know and we produce 90% of our components to build hydropower plants. I'm not an expert, I'm not going to tell anyone that he's not capable of doing this, I'm just going to as a layman, as a parliamentary representative, ask if we can use our water streams anymore, and here we go, in a way, think and wait for more modern technologies and then use them one day. Why don't we go in the direction of small hydropower plants, reversible hydropower plants that might become quite important in the future energy generation system that we all dream of? What do you say in the end? A lot of questions, a little answers, as usual. To end, well, in conclusion, once again, the fact is, we're at a time when maybe our grandfathers were when they saw the first mobile phones, and our grandfathers were 60, 70 years old, they didn't believe that someone could be called by a small piece of plastic, and today it's normal for children of 2, 3 years of age. I believe that modern systems of energy production, energy management, and the distribution of the same energy will also show to all of us that one day we will be able to enter and create, primarily an equal energy market, quality energy that will use some future production for which unfortunately, dear counterpart Djakic, we currently have little need to create energy. Unfortunately, we've silenced production, I hope that soon we'll have the ability to lift it primarily, lift it from the ashes, and for energy, we'll be easy. In any case, these additional powers of the Agency for Hydrocarbons The club of the MPs of the Homeland Movement does not see absolutely questionnaires and, of course, we will vote and support them, and since it has been my privilege to finish this, here, I would like to thank all of you for listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-13-0.u57628	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
