ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71543	The presentation of the position on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will have a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71544	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. Today, 10 years ago. Jadranka Kosor and Ivo Josipovic signed an accession contract for Croatia's entry into the EU on the same date as the International Anti-Corruption Day. Today, 10 years ago. Croatia seemed to be on track, today we are one of the most corrupt EU member states. And while corruption has a devastating effect on the rights and interests of all our citizens, it is noted that these problems are ignored or spoken of in a very distorted manner by both political hills, two of the most politically powerful figures, and in public they are lagging behind or very rarely hearing serious debates and suggestions that the problem of corruption should at least try to solve. Such a condition is not normal. Judging by the apathy in which most Croatian citizens have fallen and the tendency to re-choose those under the burden of corruption affairs seems to have raised our hands on our own. So today I can't congratulate, but I can repeat a few ideas from the Corruption Prevention Strategy that I prepared as part of the 2019 presidential election programme. The more we talk about today and the problem of the two-thirds majority and how some legislative proposals should be adopted by a two-thirds majority, I will remind you that we need to change some of the provisions of the Constitution itself by a two-thirds majority. In relation to the repressive law enforcement bodies, it is necessary to strengthen the independence of the attorney general, so I propose that the Constitution amend a provision that requires the mandate of the attorney general to last four years with the possibility of re-election, in a way that extends the term of office to six or eight years, but without the possibility of obtaining a second term. They would also have a greater guarantee of independence if the main state attorney in HS were to choose this two-thirds majority, but after a previous procedure in which the best candidates will be filtered on the basis of clear pre-arranged criteria of expertise, work experience and results achieved in a competitive process in which the professional, but the general public can also check and compare the life of each candidate. The same goes for the President of the Supreme Court. In the justice system, it is necessary to change the structure of the internal control body in such a way as to oblige the members of the DOV and the members of the DSV to carry out all their tasks in those bodies, so as to appoint, resolve, carry out tight procedures against judicial officials and verifying the property cards as their permanent professional profession, and not as is done now at the level of occasional meetings. We need to remove two parliamentary deputies sitting there from the membership of DOV and DSV. In relation to the prevention of corruption, the existing Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest should be converted into the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, which will receive a whole range of new tasks, competences and powers. One of them would also be an analysis and an indication of the corruption risks arising from or may arise from new laws that are yet to be adopted or given an indication of the risk practice that law should be better regulated. Furthermore, several public registers should be established, the most important among them is the register of all business relations with all public authorities in which contracts or other acts themselves would be available in order to see which business relationship they have concluded, under which conditions, under which they are priced, whether the obligations of this business relationship are met neatly both on time and on time and how long such a business relationship will last. In addition to this register, it is also necessary to establish a register of full fiscal transparency, i.e. a register of full openness of all budgets at both national and local level. The following registers would be a register of lobbying activities in which all meetings with bodies or persons deciding on certain rights or interests of Croatian citizens or entrepreneurs would be registered. The Office for the Prevention of Corruption would be given the opportunity to systematically analyse and compare databases from different public registers possible corrupt risks observed on time. In the system of preventing conflicts of interest, it is necessary to provide that the consequence of any situation in which conflict of interest existed was the annulment of legal work or decision with the obligation of the official to compensate for his own expense for any damage to the public budget or the body of the public authority resulting from his behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71607	The debate follows the statement on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71608	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Today, on December 9th, we mark the International Anti-Corruption Day. Namely, the UN General Assembly on 9 December 2003. She adopted the Anti-Corruption Convention. Two years later, Croatia joined and confirmed the relevant convention, i.e. 2005. Surely, by marking this day, there is further awareness of the importance and prevention and repression, as well as the fight against corruption. But also what may be more important sensitizes the public about the consequences of corruption. I think that we can all agree here that corruption is a social phenomenon that has a very strong negative effect on the rule of law and trust in institutions, of course, both in terms of the economy, democratic culture policy and, of course, society as a whole. In other words, given the effective fight against corruption, not only should public authorities include public authorities, but, of course, society as a whole and companies operating on the market, the civil sector, as well as all citizens. The focus of the public is mostly on calling them such large corruption affairs, but corrupt behavior does not depend on the level of monetary....../The speaker is excluded because of technical difficulties./... Can you do that? You got it. Can I have a colleague of Oreshkovic's? You got it. Thank you. So you looked back in your speech before me on your part of the programme, or strategy that you have presented, but here I will look back at what we discussed here in October and what we ultimately adopted, as regards the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption for the 2021 period. In this context, I would also like to highlight briefly the most important proposals for amending the positive rules that are foreseen in the strategy itself to prevent conflicts of interest for that period. First of all, I am referring to the announced amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, and the USCOD Act. I'd say it's about roof key laws for a more efficient and efficient fight against corruption. There are also amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest with the emphasis on increasing the powers of the Commission to decide conflict of interest, which has already been talked about in public, which we discussed in the first reading, the second week should be in the second reading, and despite all the allegations and statements made by the opposition, I think it is more difficult to defend what actually part of the opposition here stresses that it actually wants to euthanise the work of the commission, thus actually reducing both the importance and the prevention of the fight against corruption through the prism. Similarly, with the aim of transparency of work and effective management of the risks of corruption, the adoption of the Law on lobbyists has also been announced that lobbyist action would become a legal and legitimate profession according to the highest ethical standards. Furthermore, an amendment to the legislative framework on the immunity of members of the government with a view to limiting it is also envisaged. One of the priorities of this strategy is strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms at local and regional level, mainly in the context of strengthening anti-corruption tools in the management of commercial societies owned by local and regional self-government units. In addition, the strategy in question determines further improvement of the regulatory framework in the field of protection of applicants of irregularities to the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity. The strategy provides for amendments and a series of other positive regulations, all for the purpose of meeting the above objectives. The fight against corruption, but also the zero rate of tolerance on corruption, is the basis for setting sound foundations for every sovereign state. Corruption as a phenomenon, as a negative phenomenon in all segments or pores of society has no party membership, no party card, corruption has its name and last name. Corruption is not reserved only for senior officials, politicians, businessmen, corruption is not judged by repeated monetary amount, and it is irrelevant whether it is 10 thousand kuna or million kuna, whether it is employment or using links to obtain a certain service. Therefore, the fight against corruption requires open and transparent access to all of us together without figs in our pocket. So in the end, I think that part of what my colleague Oreshkovic was saying was covered by this strategy, from the openness of the budget, by the security checks of the judges. Therefore, I think that colleague Oreshkovic is pleased, not necessary for this intervention, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71639	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71640	Here we are all day to discuss the Law on Infectious Diseases, but I would only mention certain problems that the Ministry of Health cannot point to, and these are health problems in rural areas, namely the Dalmatian Zagora, including islands, including Lika, those areas, but they can also testify from their own ends. Of course, here's the last few days we're just saying that people are dying of the crown, of course we have a huge problem that we don't have systematic human examinations, we're getting less and less concerned about these people, mainly in rural areas where we simply don't have a doctor and I'm sorry about what, for example. Here's my cetin end that has 50,000 inhabitants to come to a CT or magnet or something when it gets tumor triba waiting a year, two, three, so I was hoping here in this budget, it was proposed and the amendment is provided for by 50,000 residents one CT or magnet, just so people can be examined if people are probably still dying of tumors, I don't know of other cardiovascular, cardiovascular diseases. I tried in Sinj, and I organized a review, a review with Solin Doctor's Association for 200 of our citizens, so I'm going to continue, so a complete systematic review and just at this point not now, it's not just from the crown, but it just didn't invest in the specialization of doctors and we have the system that we have. When I point out this health problem, then I have to say, this morning I also read "Free Dalmatia", we do not have enough space because the chairman and Jandrokovic gave notice. I see in Dubrovnik there was a "Distant Coast" concert in "Free Dalmatia" I read, then they put a fence on and only a few played outside the fence, but all the world was behind the fence for thousands of respected freedom, so it says how rude and stupid measures they have and the selective selection of people who will even be at concerts. That's the first problem. Another problem he has identified and which will cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is poor waste management. Here I would just say that the municipalities of Sinj and the Cetina region, as in the name of the Cetina region, will pay a little less than 2 million kuna fines, a penalty for waste management. There is no triba monitoring local self-government, but the problem is the Lečevica Waste Management Centre, which is otherwise catastrophic and which I thank God it did not bring to life, but millions and millions have been spent and now the loan is still rising slightly less than 90 million kuna, the only thing we had directors. And on that Lecevica on the crucible where the drinking water is at risk is essentially not only that we have nothing still growing blackberries, you have to read the drina, you have to read healing herbs, mushrooms, and 30-40 million kunas have been invested. However, it costs us and penalizes us. That's why I would send a message long ago to all my colleagues, mostly from the Cetina area, and all of it, to make our own waste management plans, not counting on this lame plan, the senseless where the millions got in a fight. Those who are from Split-Dalmatia County know what is waiting for us, we are waiting for Naples syndrome where they will simply, we will not have anywhere with waste due to carelessness and no work. All the former mayors behind me, Ante Sanader still said in 2009 that Lečevica would start in 2011, so behind who was I don't know, Ževrna. So we have huge problems that will require huge foams from the local self-government budget on the pointless management of Lečevica waste, the centre. He's pointless and he'll cost poor ends anyway. That's why it's time to send a message if the county doesn't care, that's her primary goal, they care about the team, that's less important to them. However, we who live in these areas, municipalities and cities are time to make our own plans, so as mayor of Sinja, I have to make a plan for waste management is just 2% just separating waste in the city of Sinj when I assume power, 2%. And this year, I'm going to have to apologize for 2018, and I'm going to have to pay the city about 800,000 kunapence next year even more. These are the problems that we pay for when we call for green, green policies, sustainable development. We have Myanka, a waste dump, come and see, from Vrhorca, the minister is sending waste. So, once again, I am warning of unemployment, negligence and waste management care, which will cost billions of pens that we will return to the EU cash register, which is our money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71712	Now it's 13 o'clock, now we're going to take the club stand. Here is the first reported Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, on behalf of them will present the position of the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. He's gone. Advocacy follows on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u71713	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have talked more than once from this place about the problems young people face after completing medical schooling in the performance of traineeships who are obliged to end up for a year in order to get a work license and can access the labour market. The second topic I'm going to talk about is the problems of my family's medical colleagues. Since things are being resolved too slowly, I'm going to point out again what's going on. 13 months ago, I got involved after these young people came to me for help in solving the traineeship for those professions that had to do it. I remind you it's 2020. was planned 170 places, and for 2021. 2,000 places, so there have been some shifts, but not enough. Namely, between the other quotas and those for which there is no longer such need for an internship that has been abolished, such as nurses, 675 seats have been called, and 55 to 105 nurses have been appointed at the Employment Service without work experience. On the other hand, there is insufficient room for physiotherapists and more physiotherapists on Day 31.10. 447 people, and it was a similar number a year ago. They did not include those unfathomable trainees who were forced to accept another job because they had to live on something while waiting for the internship many two or three years or more. Of course, some trainees have been trained in the meantime, but there are newly completed physiotherapists and other professions, as well as those who continue to wait for years. The group of health trainees was numbered at the end of 2020. about 2,000 people, this year and more. I'm talking about people who need to get a traineeship. It's 2022 on the pier. We still have no information as to how much space will be provided for next year, where the funds are intended for funding, so I have also submitted an amendment to the budget to ensure that funds are re-distributed within the HZZ, but the amendment was rejected yesterday. Therefore, I will continue to insist that as soon as possible the number of seats for 2022, to amend the Regulation on the criteria for the admission of health workers to traineeships and the plan for the trainees to meet the real needs, to adopt a Regulation with clear criteria for the allocation of traineeships, i.e. length of study, average rating, length of period of period of schooling, etc., was written in 2013, it was suspended 2019. It is also necessary to repeal the provisions of the Employment Service so far that at the time of the opening of the traineeship, persons must not be employed. It is also necessary to move towards reducing the traineeship to 6 months, or trainees suggest even the suspension of the traineeship. With regard to family medicine, there is a new Health Care Act that will have to contain a plan for family medicine to be revitalised in human and organisational terms. However, the bill contains additional repressive provisions that impose a number of new obligations on family medicine as they say. Proposals and concrete solutions that come from the very profession of family medicine the health administration does not respect. Family doctors are the ones who best know the critical points on the ground that have competences and best know the functioning of the system. For years, family doctors have been appealing and demanding the release of family medicine from excessive control of bureaucracy and administrations, seeking to establish equal criteria and guidelines for all stakeholders in the health system. They seek to strengthen the status of a family doctor because the only quality and competent specialist of family medicine can carry the role of the database or healthcare system keeper to the benefit of all stakeholders of the system, and of course the most to our patients. Many studies have shown that countries with good primary health care have better health indicators, lower costs and greater equality in access to health care. We need to know that in family medicine in the Republic of Croatia today there are 2327 teams of family medicine, 2223 of which are family medicine doctors, so 104 teams are without a doctor or a doctor, so their overtime is covered by the remaining doctors of family medicine. It is also important to know that a large number of family medical colleagues are only 650 older than 60. And they're actually going to retire in a few years, and then another half a million people are going to be left without a doctor. Therefore, it is the obligation of the health administration to urgently hold all necessary meetings with colleagues from primary health care, to listen to their proposals and to respect them because there is no time to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81032	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We begin today as we announce. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 230 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 2. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Before the proposer's representative gives an additional explanation of the final bill, we have several requests for a break. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81033	The Honorable President of HS. I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for 10 minutes to further consult on this bill. Here I must warn of a few facts that are obvious throughout the entire duration of the epidemic, and these are measures that are inconsistencies, I will say illogical. I will now, through a break, warn you of one measure or one particular case, and this particular inconsistency that they are now saying, or indifference, is why you are not satisfied with the number of displaced citizens. In particular, it is a Croatian post office, in Croatia mail when a citizen wants to pay an account can enter without a covid certificate, he will covid confirmation only to show the worker on the counter. It stands in line for an hour, time, two hours, three hours with other citizens who want to conduct a transaction in the office of Croatian Post and only when it reaches the counter of Croatian Mail then the official or official asks him for a covid certificate. So, if you can enter the store without a covid certificate, I invite you to apply the same thing to Croatia's mail as well. The post office doesn't have security guards like FINA, as there are some banks I don't know, so mail has to go according to another criterion. Another thing that is very important, who will bear the loss of Croatian mail because people will stop or lose the habit of performing transactions in Croatia post office, who? It's a state-owned company. So no one's thinking about it. So, I suggest that Croatia should be put in place in view of the specific situation in the category of trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81034	The apartment is approved. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81035	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian public. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club for 10 minutes to further consult on this bill, but to warn about the irregularities this law carries. The SDP Club and the entire SDP are well aware of the need to come out of the pandemic as soon as possible, and we have repeatedly stressed in our actions how much we need to respect the decisions of the profession, respect scientists, adhere to epidemiological measures, so many times we have called on our citizens to be vaccinated because vaccination is the most important tool that can stop the pandemic, but what is controversial in this law is the next question, whether, by applying certain epidemiological measures among other things, by exercising certain rights by possessing covid certificates, do you still restrict certain human rights and freedoms, especially when you have a situation where you can't enter certain institutions, you need testing, somewhere you don't need testing? As far as the headquarters decisions are concerned, we have repeatedly said that they are inconsistencies, inconsistencies and in fact unequal in the regulation of measures, therefore in the cafe, you can't have a restaurant at this point without problems in other institutions. The question is what continues the pandemic, how additional rights will actually be limited, and therefore we are looking for it, and we have repeatedly stressed that it is necessary to make clear these decisions which, behind them, are likely to be further restricted and, in fact, indicate additional restrictions on rights, so that they are made by a two-thirds majority. So we're asking for this decision to be made by a two-thirds majority here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81036	The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81037	Thank you very much. Please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS. Let's spread out everything and tell you what we're discussing today, or what we're going to discuss. We will not discuss covid certificates, we will discuss that some 15,000 people died in Croatia in the Homeland War, and that 11500 people have died from the crown so far. That's a fact. That's what we're discussing. And through this amendment and the addition of the law, he's just trying to iron out and somehow define the consequences of all this. We often hear in this extra home that the opposition is hopeless, that the opposition only speaks. I'll remind you of, tomorrow will be the point of a year when we had an interpretation of the work of headquarters and the debate was deep into the night and with us was Minister Beroš and then we warned, then we talked, then we gave ideas, then we already knew that the situation was not good, then we asked to sort things out in a certain way. We are now one year later with results saying that Croatia is one of the worst countries not only in Europe but also in the world by the number of dead per million inhabitants. People my situation is that today we are discussing life and death. We're not discussing Covid's certificates, we're discussing the situation. So I'd go back to maybe that debate that was on December 10th last year. Then we asked Minister Beros and the government how you prepared yourself for vaccination, what kind of strategy you have, what idea do you have, are you prepared? So in this we listen to in some other countries whose fissure is 70-80%, and we see where Croatia is. So let's concentrate and determine exactly what we're discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81038	The apartment is approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81039	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS and the Workers' Front, I demand a break to pay attention, but not only to this law because criticising this law and referring to some inconsistencies in this law would be extremely irresponsible and I think the opposition should stop such practices. Why? Because here we are talking about fat late reforms, about fat, fat delays in any measure, and we need to spread the veil over this farce about some opposition and some rulings where someone asks you to introduce more liberal measures, we have the most liberal measures in Europe. In everything else, you like to compare yourself to the ruling part of the opposition with Germany, Austria, and here you do not compare with those countries. There is no opposition to HDZ simply asking that MOST and other opposition parties give him the legitimacy to continue the irresponsible conduct of the pandemic. And that's the real reason, and that's the real story behind this law. So we have over 11,300 dead people, we have an increase in mortality of 13% at the annual level in October we had 12%, so 500 people die monthly more than necessary. And then we're talking about whether or not the infected, whether or not the vaccinated carry the disease. I will appeal here in this debate that people in alcoholic condition are allowed to drive cars because those who are not alcoholized are also responsible for traffic accidents. I'm going to turn every single one of them into this kind of translation. So let's go, let's organize education for people who want to drink and drive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81040	The apartment is approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81041	Article 238 demeaning parliamentary representatives, MOST is the only one fighting for the Croatian people to finally hear and stop such irresponsible, illogical, discriminatory management of this pandemic. Perhaps colleague Peovic does not want to discuss that it is illegal to pass the law after the measure has already been introduced and that we have the lowest humiliation of the assembly ever to discuss this law at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81042	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ I beg you, this is a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. I warn you, given that we have a large number of clubs and individual debates today that I will interrupt when someone goes into replica, not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I will give more notice after such an intervention. For now, just one. Now it's time for your colleague, Ursha Raukar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81043	Thank you. So I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to consult again on the way epidemiological measures are being taken. We will look together with our colleagues from the Constitutional Court, but we are now asking this home to decide to amend and supplement this law, which regulates Covid's certificates, to be adopted in accordance with Article 17. The Republic of Croatia has two-thirds of the majority. In fact, it's clear to everyone that we've been in a state of emergency for a year and a half. It is clear to all that no decision-making would be required to limit one part of the population, regardless of whether they work in the public or private sector. The number of dead tells us clearly that we are in a state of emergency. There are measures and measures. This measure limits certain rights of citizens in a way that represents a restriction and we cannot say that it is proportionate because the proportionality test cannot even work for situations that are so new that it is impossible to assess the necessity of measures, whether or not a legitimate objective will be achieved. This measure has significantly polarised society, and such polarisations have long-term negative effects. The message of political consensus here in parliament would have a positive social impact. And so it is completely unclear why the prime minister insists on the ordinary majority and fails to build a strong consensus on these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81044	Now we're going to the sixth, sixth explanation of the break, colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81045	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10 minute break to send a message to the Croatian citizens once again that the problem of probleming the Covid certificate as a public legal health document is more appropriate to the Middle Ages than the third decade of the 21st century. If we as citizens of doctors and medical staff are willing to give our lives into our hands to operate our hearts, transplant an organ, I can't believe that this same staff, these same doctors we can't trust when it comes to one simplest painless procedure any vaccination has been tested. How justified is the introduction of a covid certificate into the public sector best says that 570,000 people tested in the public sector in the past 3 weeks of 570,000 of them 8 thousand and 515 were confirmed as positive. If they had entered the system according to epidemiologist estimates, they would have infected about 50,000 people, 5 thousand would have been hospitalized, and somewhere around 100 would have died. So, if we saved only one life, we'd done a lot, and we're saying here today we're having trouble introducing a covid certificate. This law is done because of those who do not respect the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and have sworn and received a mandate from citizens that they will respect the constitution and the law for the protection of their health. Therefore, this issue of a legal document introduced by all democratic states in Europe for us in HDZ is absolutely unacceptable and we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81046	We're going to the 7th request for a break. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81047	Covid's certificates are unconstitutional, illegal, and the fact is that you don't punish those who don't respect them, for example. As mayor of Sinj. They're no measure at all. It has been proven that only testing can protect, mainly medical institutions, and that's what we've been talking about as a bridge all along. My people, this is just an excuse where they will shut you down, not for two-thirds of the time, harass you, harass the covid certificates that are no protection, because with the covid certificates, people carry the disease. That's what happened to them in the hospital. This was warned by a Varazdinian doctor, at the beginning of the principal, only now they have had enough to protect and our healthcare institutions and the chief culprit are the most responsible for this situation in society to divide the vaccinated and unvaccinated. My people, come out, sign and we'll decide on a referendum. This Christmas dictatorship of Andreja Plenkovic and certificates, exactly what counterpart Bačić said last time in the Middle Ages, today we have the possibility of testing, mainly where people are immunocompromised health, social and other institutions. This duress, this sharing will lead you to dissension, will close behind Christmas and New Year's and catering facilities and shops, so let the people decide, let the people decide on these illegal covid certificates. They're illegal now, you're breaking the constitution now, they're not legal, you're changing this law. Tell me the reason why you're amending this law, under which article of the law you can now punish me as mayor, now at this moment or other colleagues who did not respect this unlawful An anti-constitutional act on the Croatian people? [[Thank you, thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81048	Comrade Bulj, thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I warn my colleague, Boris, that I will make warnings if it goes the wrong way, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81049	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm sorry. 238, because this is really the kind of speech that demeans us MPs when it comes to closing. The only person who wants to shut down Croatian citizens within the border of the Republic of Croatia by abolishing a covid certificate without which you cannot go anywhere in another country, can come and stand on the road is the Bridge and their initiative for this. That's what citizens need to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81050	You get a warning, this wasn't, of course, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Buddy Bull, you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81051	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. 238, where he says I'm the one who put the people away. No, for me I am the mayor of both vaccinated and unvaccinated and those with a covid certificate that transmits the disease [[Intruder: colleague, colleague Bulj, colleague Bulj, come on please]] And those who have no covid certificate and those, let me finish. [[Employer: colleague Bulj, colleague Bulj, first warning]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81052	No, no, no, I didn't let him either. First warning, if you continue, I'll give you another one. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're replicating... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81053	... Get out, I know. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81054	Well, I'm not gonna kick you out if you don't deserve it, and I hope you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81055	I won't let you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81056	Please behave properly. We have a lot of speakers reported and let's not steal time. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81057	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. It should be reminded of certain elemental things since the beginning of this pandemic. So we started with recommendations to wash hands, to keep a distance and so on, and now we hear recently that a person headed by the European Commission advocates mandatory vaccination in the EU area. So citizens rightly are concerned about what direction this is going along. I've never received so many calls from concerned parents who ask me why I'm being publicly pressured to vaccinate children when no scientific work, at least I haven't seen it, doesn't claim that children are a risk group. So, I know the state ordered a large number of doses, big, let me say, a large number of doses of vaccines, but why are you talking about child vaccination? So, I've never seen such reactions from our citizens concerned before. So, the covid confirmation, why Croatia has a complex that must follow the necessary example of other countries, perhaps Germans, Austrians and others are wrong about measures, may do more harm than benefit their citizens. So, until now, I'm going to repeat, until recently, the government has been relatively, relatively successful in taking care of this situation and it's taken a liberal path, but there's been a turn, I don't know why, but I don't think that's a good direction, it's not a good direction. And I appeal once again, if we're going to worry about the conditions in the health system we're going to test everyone, not this way where the covid confirms It allows for further spread of the infection. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Bartulica.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81058	The apartment is approved. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81059	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. On behalf of the Club of Independents and Focus, I seek a break primarily to highlight some of the problems that are already within the law itself, but also within the practice itself. Whether we agree or disagree, we primarily have living examples of people being tested before the border with Slovenia, having a covid certificate, the applade being confirmed whether they are positive or negative in the system, it takes time, people crossing the border with Slovenia to Austria and the age of finding that they are positive. These are serious problems, and there is a certain nonsense of these certificates. We can agree, we can disagree on some things, but I would also point out that any restriction on freedom of movement is the opposite and the Constitution means art. 22nd and 32nd. The Republic of Croatia is also opposed to the EU acquis. The EU Charter for the Protection of Human Rights. I think that we must primarily be here in Parliament, whether we are fighting, loving or hating, or however the Parliament should still be respected and yet some fundamental things should be asked. And as for you ministers, at first you were very popular, everyone listened to you and everyone, be boring at least later and be boring at least now because unfortunately the Swedish chief epidemiologist is in the cafes as a favorite person, they unfortunately put you as one of the most hated and then ask yourself about the communication itself if she is good or bad. As a parliamentary representative and as mayor I stand at the disposal of everyone here, we in the city had a huge fissure without any coercion, without any confirmation, and in the end that result was quite positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81060	And we have another request, colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81061	Dear President of the Parliament. Today's bill of law is actually a confirmation that the covid certificate was passed illegally. So, you're coming today for support at the Parliament. Why? Because you introduced certificates illegally, and you introduced them because you have since the beginning of your work as a headquarters de facto extended hand of Andrej Plenkovic hiding behind the headquarters. You're de facto his jukebox who plays as needed what he says. Unfortunately, you marginalized Parliament, I suggested a year and a half ago that we make decisions here together with a two-thirds majority, and then you refused, and you refused for the purposes of parliamentary elections because, of course, the Prime Minister said in Split on May 26th that this government had won the crown. It's clear after 11,000 dead, after more deaths than in the Homeland War that he lied face-to-face and that he used headquarters just to manipulate the feelings of the believers, he promised unworkable Sundays, you see today that you gave up working Sunday, you paid fat money for the PR for propaganda, you've been taking over the obvious measures in the principle of shopping centers open, cafes closed, so a whole series of illogical things that you haven't done to protect yourself primarily the health system. It is clear that those who are vaccinated and those who are unvaccinated can also take the crown, so let us not divide people in Croatia into vaccinated and unvaccinated. It is our suggestion that we simply end this malignant virus through testing especially in hospitals, in homes of health, in hospitals. So we have to have the same obligation for everyone when they're at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81062	Is there anyone else who might be picking up? You can put the guns back in the holsters because we're gonna go now, we're gonna take a break by 10:00 and 10 minutes. It's 9:57 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:12 A.M.]] Please, MPs and representatives, colleagues Lukačić, colleagues Lukačić, please take your seats so that we can continue our work. I call upon the Honorable Minister of Health, Willy Beros, to explain the final draft of the law. I'm also asking you to hold the tiles in the air while everyone who wants to replicate is peed. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81064	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and representatives, the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases was established in July 2007 with amendments 2008, 2009, 2017, 2018 and 2020, in the case of infectious diseases which prevent the prevention of the interest in the Republic of Croatia, as well as measures to protect the public from these infectious diseases. The latest amendments to the Public Protection Act against Contagious Diseases of April and December 2020 have been updated and the relevant legal provisions of the new Covid-19 infectious disease caused by the SARS-COV virus 2. We all remember at the end of January 2020 when the World Health Organization declared a public health emergency of international importance, and on 11 March 2020 it also declared the pandemic Covida-19. On the same day, I made a decision to declare Covid-19 disease caused by SARS-COV virus 2 and in the Republic of Croatia. Since then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has maintained the stability of the health system, the economy and society as a whole through joint efforts by key stakeholders of Croatian society. These efforts are of additional importance when considering today's consequences of the epidemic itself from huge health and financial costs to a new way of functioning of the Covid-19 disease-related society at global level. From February 25, 2020, when the first case of infection was reported in the Republic of Croatia until 8 December 2021, a total of 639,778 people infected with a new coronary virus were reported. Unfortunately, as we heard from 11,383 until yesterday, 601,174 people recovered. In self-insulation there are 22,342 persons. By December 8, 2021, a total of 3 million 535 thousand 311 people were tested. According to epidemiological indicators on 8 December 2021, the cumulative seven-day rate for the Republic of Croatia was 632.71 and the cumulative 14-day rate at 100,000 inhabitants was 1394.60. The share of positive tests in the total number of tests on December 8, 2021 for the previous 7 days was on average 36.1%. In the period from 2.12 to 8.12 the number of new cases on the respirator was 202, and 416 people unfortunately died. Dear MPs and MPs, in recent days, has been encouraging the mild decline of newly infected and sick, which is not a coincidence, but also the consequences of our decisions that always come from the profession and experience so far with the epidemic at national and global level. We are witnessing that many countries taught by experience in the recent past react by introducing more restrictive measures including border crossing measures, limiting public gatherings, insisting somewhere and so on. 2G variants of confirmation that only identify vaccinated or over-experienced. So many other countries have introduced significantly more restrictive measures than they are in force in the Republic of Croatia. Not following one of the most liberal measures in Europe can easily lead us to a new 5 wave of epidemics and to a potential lockdown situation that we no longer want to repeat. With this sudden cut, we would have prevented the spread of the virus for sure, but we would have also risked the economic survival of our country. Indeed, we have no reason to avoid or oppose balanced security measures. They are not discriminatory, they do not create divisions, on the contrary they are inclusive, and they allow everyone their aspect and part of the action. An additional incentive to respect security measures is also a new threat to a new variant of a virus called Omicron. Although time has passed to fully understand the functioning of the new variant of the first experience, measures envisaged by these legal changes have contributed to preventing further spread and this new virus. In addition to vaccination, adherence to safety measures first and foremost allows maximum control of the spread of the virus. So, not the absolute but the greatest possible measure of spreading the virus, and thus the greatest functionality of the health system, economy and society as a whole. In an unprecedented crisis, the government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic provided sufficient resources for the health system, measures to preserve jobs and help employers as well as all other important elements for the regular functioning of all segments of society. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by amending and supplementing this law, we ensure the implementation of the specific necessary security and epidemiological measures that are essential for the preservation of health and stability of the state and society. The rule of law rights and equality are fundamental to the functioning of democratic and free EU member states. Based on this, all individuals in society have their rights, but also their obligations, especially at the time of the epidemic. The participation of all citizens in the social political community requires of all of us social responsibility as the only and possible way of co-existence in the community. Each country, as well as ours, expects to respect the laws and regulations of all stakeholders of society, as well as an active contribution to combating the epidemic. One of the keys to success is the unity and responsibility of public institutions. It is also their duty and political responsibility. No one is above the law or has the right to exercise it regardless of the duty he performs or the privileges he currently enjoys. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the legislative proposal before you defines the public authorities responsible for implementing the measures laid down in this law and the responsible persons in public bodies. In the context of this legislative proposal, the public legal authority shall be deemed to be the legislative, executive and judicial body of the state authority, the body of the state administration and of the other state body, the body of the unit of local and regional regional self-government, the legal person with public authority and the legal person performing the public service, the public service providers. The legislative proposal also defines the responsible persons in public law bodies, which are the head of the body of the state authority, the head of the body of the state administration, the head of the other state body, the mayor, the mayor and the municipal chief and legal representative of the legal entity in accordance with specific regulations. Furthermore, the legislative proposal introduces a new security measure relating to the obligation to present evidence of testing, vaccination or disease in order to enter certain areas. The application of that security measure at the time of entry into the premises of the public authorities as well as the obligations of the responsible persons in public authorities to ensure the implementation of this security measure shall be further discussed. For the purpose of implementing the new security measures introduced, the powers of the sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate shall be complemented in the exercise of supervision of the implementation of the new measure, and criminal penalties shall be imposed on the responsible person if they do not ensure the implementation of a special security measure of between 30 thousand and 50 thousand kuna. The proposed law ensures more effective management of the crisis in the global pandemic of Covid-19 and its more effective control for the protection of human life and health, in line with the latest scientific scientific basis. The following proposed adoption of this legislative proposal. Dear MPs and MPs, I urge you to contribute with your voice to the preservation of citizens' health and further combating this epidemic. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81065	Thank you, Minister. Now let's go with the replicas, as many as there are, now I'm going to tell you so you know, there are 32. There's a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81066	Dear Minister Beroš, Croatian sovereigns handed over in the procedure of the law that all decisions of the civil protection headquarters should be confirmed in HS. You will agree with me that only this House has electoral legitimacy, that it represents the will of citizens. Every other body, and here I mean, of course, the headquarters does not represent the will of the citizens the way it was in the elections. I want to hear your point of view about it and why not because I will assume that there will be an answer no, why you are, why you are constantly refusing to keep all decisions of headquarters under emergency procedure, and they are key, they are important, we see that they break Croatian society would not confirm in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81067	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81068	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. MP, my answer is next. So in response to this unprecedented crisis, we have been able to cope from the beginning and very quickly establish a certain institutional model of crisis management, flexible, fast and efficient. Finally, this honorary home has confirmed with its reflection the amendments to two laws, the Civil Protection Act and the Law on Public Protection against Contagious Diseases, which have just confirmed this institutional model as a good one, and this model reflects that the headquarters in coordination with the profession and only on the basis of professional, scientific grounds presented by the expert group of the Ministry of Health, HZZO, the Epidemiological Service of the Croatian Institute is making decisions aimed at preserving the health and life of Croatian citizens. This model has proved good, look at our past in taking measures, the effect of measures, look a little wider, you have to compartment the whole world We make decisions about it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81069	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81070	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here we have heard from opposition deputies that we have the most liberal measures in the Republic of Croatia and across the EU. However, a problem has been created among some politicians who do not want to implement the law, and have sworn to the constitution and the law that they will do so. We also have some of our colleagues who are doing this, and that is why we need to change this law that we are discussing today. But what I'm interested in is a story that you've been told about the removal of the covid certificate. What does it mean for Croatian citizens, for their mobility and possibilities of movement, are we going to be able to travel to any other country by abolishing this public health document, if we go to Slovenia, Austria, any part of that world where we want to participate, what are we going to do in this way, are we going to lock ourselves in the borders of the Republic and live only here or are we still going to have the opportunity to do something if we have a covid basis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81071	Thank you. Before answering, just a little minister, a colleague Bernardic reported in on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bernardić, I don't know if you were, if I think you're going the wrong way I'm going to warn you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81072	Of course, thank you very much. Art. In 238, when it comes to breaking the law, so today you de facto admit that you first introduced a copy of the certificate, and only today do you send the law into the procedure Wouldn't you iron what you've done wrong... [[Employee: colleague Bernardić, colleague Bernardić, please, colleague Bernardić]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81073	Comrade Bernardic, you get your first warning, first warning. Don't do it or say what's hurt, you started replicating right away, so let's not do it. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81074	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. In one minute I can't even say in principle and explain everything that is needed when it comes to using a covid certificate, but I would also say that there are no mistakes and no ironing mistakes. The law makes it very clear what the headquarters can and when it can, it can bring on the basis and on the basis of the profession of a certain security measure, that we are all Unions in the conduct of the same, that we all adhere to basic epidemiological measures today to this novelty to come, and in this way we must legally justify both the possibility of control and the occasional penalization of someone who does not protect the health and lives of Croatian citizens, that is basic. Therefore, the covid certificates have indeed been carried out even earlier at EU level, the European Commission to assist in the cross-border movement of goods, services, people etc. In this context, their abolition would really lead to us not being free to move. But yes, they also have deeper epidemiological significance. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81075	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81076	How many COvid certificates are not the discriminatory best testimony to the fact that students have to pay for testing, and teachers don't have to, and how epidemiologically effective they are to need for libraries and not to pay for shopping centres. But I'm going to ask you something else, the Civil Protection Centre is known as a professional health epidemiological body, and we are often told that it has to make decisions, and the Assembly cannot. According to what I was able to identify, there are five graduate lawyers, four graduate economists, two graduate criminals, two building engineers and two traffic engineers. We have other professions like polythologists, electrical engineers, seismologists, physicists, agronomists, and only two doctors of medicine are most important. In our Medical Council, there is much more than the coat of arms of Bujević, Mr Kirin, Celić, Andreja Marić, will continue not to list, and how it is then more called to make expert epidemiological decisions than this HS having legitimacy and [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] to Croatian citizens. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81077	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81078	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable and distinguished Mrs. MPs. So, when it comes to discrimination I want to tell you something on this subject, there really is no discrimination and we wanted it to be gone. Therefore, vaccination is possible, available, free and first option and first choice in the fight against the epidemic. If someone does not want to vaccinate, there is another option, which is a test that is also available for free. Therefore, the choice there is no discrimination. And when it comes to the Civil Protection Staff, it is, of course, legally founded very broadly because the epidemiological medical crisis is not the only crisis that can happen to our beautiful one, so it is necessary for it to be wide. And according to my information, he only met a few times in the course of this whole crisis in full because this is mainly a medical crisis and the emphasis on work at headquarters was just received by medical experts, mainly epidemiologists. Doctors and everyone else. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81079	Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81080	Art. 238th Minister He disrespects the MPs because he lied. [[What, what, what, what?]] Testing is not free, it is free for state and public servants, students must pay the same as all those who want access to state and public institutions [[Break President: My colleagues Selak Rasudić you are re-polomiting and giving a replica.]] It's the same. [[You're getting a second one, this is your second warning now.]] You have to let me finish, so you'll give me a warning. [[Attack president: colleagues Selak Rasudiæ will get third and no more.]] Also two doctors of medicine are called the Civil Protection Staff... [[The incursion president: No, no, no.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81081	So you get a third warning and you lose the right to debate today more. I've told you many times, I've told you again, you're losing your right to debate. Third warning. Now it's my colleague Kirin's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81082	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. This law is clear and should only be read, informed and critical, and then everything will be clear to us and there will be no dilemma. In my opinion, those who are opponents of vaccinations and opponents of covid vaccination certificates are simply the same, do not respect the law and the recommendations, but those at entry into any space can also infect vaccination. Please, do you have any information on how much of the budget has been spent on treating the sick, of course, who must be treated? But if they had followed the recommendations, the measures might not have gotten sick or at least they wouldn't have such a difficult shape as to show the latest data, so the opponents can see what that means for the standard of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81083	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81084	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. You asked a good question and correctly detected the role and importance of vaccination. I would not, in my answer, place an emphasis on financial costs, but I would say that the fact that some unvaccinated end up in hospitals refers to those who need to receive other health care and are not able to. It's kind of much worse implications of unvaccinated behavior than I am the financial cost which is also extreme. You yourself know that the total cost of the covid crisis to health and others goes beyond 40 billion kuna, extreme, but we are not now talking about new health services that must be available to all citizens and to those who are positive, but even more those who are not covid positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81085	Now it's time for my colleague, Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81086	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister. What's bothering me here? So I'm bothered by actually two levels, one is the inconsistency of measures, so you have an example of your own eyes seen that a person comes to Croatia for example to do a service, comes to the counter so the clerk asks for a covid certificate, the person has no, she comes back because there is no security at the entrance and that the person who stands behind the line therefore doing the service. We are talking about the non-consistency of measures such as some colleagues and colleagues before me and mentioned the library, shopping center etc., etc., and on the other hand this should be a law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, but unfortunately this reminds me of more changes and additions of the law to account with certain political insinuationists, so.../incomprehensible/... there's little to me that I call it lex Orsat Miljanic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81087	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81088	Thank you, Mr. President. So this law and the intensity of his novelty is exclusively an epidemiological fight against the pandemic. I would remove this insinuation entirely if he had been brought in for other reasons. But I can also say that we've all accepted him and that we follow his recommendations that maybe there wouldn't be a need for this novelty. Hope, further when it comes to inconsistency, you must understand that we are not dealing with micromanagement in this situation. We started with state and public bodies because we wanted to show our responsibility and to set an example for everyone else. The bad news is that it happens in the post office, however, it is not able to determine who will be standing at the door, who will check the certificates and the listed elements. So there must be someone inside the Croatian Post Office, read the law and adapt to it. What you have stated is certain I will not say inconsistency, but the consequence of what which is not, but it is not only Croatia. [[- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] We have one Germany where some elements like this have also met. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81089	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81090	Thank you very much. Minister, this is not a law on the protection of the public and the people, this is a law on punishing and legalising what you are now carrying out with the Covid certificates. That's what you have to tell the people. You are violating the law and the Constitution, and you have sworn here because the Covid certificates are currently illegal because that the legal ones would not have passed this law solely because of me and perhaps any other individual, exclusively. Because you're breaking the law. And Covid's receipts are absolutely no measure whatsoever. If you had tested people in the hospital system who had Covid's confirmation today you'd have a lot less infected, and you didn't, you didn't listen to hospital directors, you didn't. You're making this bill in a way that you're going to break in, visit the health inspector, and there's little work to be done like this. And what he will do when he comes to the city of Sinj, which he will do, I am the mayor of both the vaccinated and the unvaccinated, and it is my duty to give this poor girl a favor When you're mayor, make your decision. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81091	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81092	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, Mr. Assembly Attorney Bull, I like you very much, and I really appreciate you. However, I would not say that the law is passed because of you it would even be pre-named your role in society. This law is passed in order to protect, protect health and life. And I will also warn you of a certain illogicality in your actions, and which is understandable because you are not the profession, this is much better known by fellow Capak and possibly to present yourself with such things. However, when you advocate testing in health institutions, you only stress the useful importance of Covid's certificate and nothing else. I don't know if you realize that. But I'm also going to tell you that it's a test that you stand for both the counterproductive and the weakest link in the Covid chain of certificates that some think about throwing it out in the first place. Why? Because it's not relevant, because you can be incubated, it's the period when you have the virus and you're not sick and you can pass it on because these tests are up to the eye. 10% false negative and other elements, but it's impossible to say in a minute. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81093	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81094	Thank you very much, President. Since the minister said absolutely everything he said by giving up his injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81095	You found a good one, so I'm gonna do it for the first time, you were funny, so I'm gonna give you this one no warning. Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81096	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, here I recently traveled to a Western European country when buying a plane ticket, when arriving at the airport I had to show Covid a confirmation. It is purely plastic for the Croatian public that the question arises as to what would happen if such a proposal was adopted by a fellow member of the Most. How would Croatian citizens travel anywhere? So they're talking about limiting freedom of movement, and freedom of movement reminds me of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the EU. And they are now talking about discrimination and banning freedom of movement, and exactly what they are proposing is in fact in some way limiting any of the Croatian citizens to exit the Republic of Croatia. And what colleague Selak Rasdic is, unfortunately, has left this assembly, suggests that MOST propose testing everyone. What happened in Slovakia in November last year, when they tested the entire population? Slovakia has the highest incidence of mortality per population. So it's their only solution, populism, political profits at risk of life and health. They're mad at it, but they really are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81097	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81098	Well, thank you very much. I'm very sorry to talk about very important things here, professional things, and I don't allow myself to tell you about some epidemiological things, so there's a colleague of Capak and then there's such an important debate for individuals who sort of troublesomely go away and don't listen to what they're told. If they don't want to hear the argument, if they think they're smarter than all of us together, that's just amazing to me. So I will answer to you, that you are on the trail of what we just said. In this way, the abolition of Covid's certificate, not to spread rights in Croatia, would limit them to our citizens who would want to go anywhere in Europe. Furthermore, no one claims Covid's confirmation is an optimal tool, no one claims it, but at this point the best. Or if anyone thinks they've got a better one, we're listening, here's counterpart Capak and I will listen to each and every one of you. If you think you have a better model, say it. But the whole of Europe is going that way. over... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81099	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81100	Minister Beros, the problem is what you're saying here right now is what your measures are actually in line with what Most is looking for. There is no opposition, you have been holding the most liberal measures in Europe for months. Do you consider yourself responsible for 11.300 and how many people have died of the pandemic? We have a mortality rate of over 500 people died more than should have died, so if you take a period of the last five years in October this year. We lose 500 people every month. For the last month over 50 people die a day, the bus people lose. And you maintain these liberal measures. So the medical profession has referred the government and the headquarters to the proposal to introduce certificates as an obligation for all employers to enter all public spaces, you did not accept it. This is a spectacle of this meaning of yours Contruding the Bridge is unnecessary. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]] You hold and measures the Bridge on... [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Peović]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81101	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81102	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, so this is what I'm going to tell you. I don't feel responsible, I'll even say that those political actors who deny disease, who deny the effectiveness of vaccination, who call for mass gatherings during the epidemic, who deny the importance of testing, are those who threaten our citizens and who are indirectly responsible for the mortality of our citizens. We know for ourselves that somewhere between 70 and 80% of those who have evicted have not been vaccinated. Therefore, who bears this responsibility, who manipulates those who do not have medical knowledge? See what the headquarters and waist has been saying for 20 months or since the vaccine has become available, please make sure that it saves health and lives, and our measures are balanced. If we look at them from only one aspect we can say that they are too mild, but in total they are balanced because they allow for the protection of health and economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81103	Minister, thank you very much, please stick to your time. Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81104	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, here in the last year and a half we have been listening here especially when you show up here in the assembly that the headquarters is a political body, that the headquarters is making political decisions, that the arm of the government is extended, that we have an initiative of a referendum bridge that actually wants to imprison the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that we will tell them that we will covid certificates, you can't go anywhere, but be satisfied here in Croatia, Croatia is still the most beautiful country in the world and is looking for solutions. But science and profession have found a solution to combating Covida-19, it's vaccination. Why don't we split up, why don't we be part of those European countries that have shown this in practice and thus solve a part of the problem we've been talking about here for more than a year and a half, and remember that until there was a vaccine that one part of the parliamentary representatives was even a conspiracy to become a part of the Russian Federation just to... Sputnik 5 as some alternative vaccine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81105	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81106	Oh, thank you. I hope that Croatian citizens will recognize the rhetoric of each of us. Indeed, those who advocate the abolition of the covid certificate will have to explain to Croatian citizens what their intensity is, may limit the possibility of travel, but let's let it go now. What I want to do again, the way in this legislative body is confirmed by the institutional model of crisis management. There has been a constitutional evaluation that is positive and at this point there are several cases on the wallpaper of the constitutional court and thank God that is so, but we are not afraid for the outcome, we are not afraid for the outcome. Why? Because we only perform with one goal, which is to protect health and life and only from one aspect, which is scientific and professional. And finally what you said, science has offered a solution, it's vaccination, let's use it, and then all the stories fall into the water, we have nothing to talk about plus basic epidemiological measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81107	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81108	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm also vaccinated at the third dose and I support vaccination. But you said and now you've reaffirmed an institutional governance model that is confirmed by the common majority in the assembly not by the two-bit majority. We are currently witnessing a great polarisation in society, we are witnessing the rise of the influence of conspiracy theories, we are witnessing the aftermath of one understandable fear of citizens. Why don't you want to go to the two-thirds majority, which is why you don't want a big two-thirds democratic, how can I say, incentive that would certainly give and encourage in a positive social turn towards these things? Here's what I'm curious about, please answer why the two-thirds majority is not what needs to confirm the headquarters's decisions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81109	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81110	Well, I thank you for that question, madam. Parliamentarians. Perhaps, among other things, this House of Law has twice newized certain laws that provide that possibility. Perhaps because the Constitutional Court has already evaluated similar allegations and has spoken its word, it will do so in the future, but this is certainly such a model of crisis management you can't say, or please, if you can give me an example of countries in the world that are doing micro-management where Parliament is doing micro-management and determining professional epidemiological measures, so indeed here I am surprised, but you may have some knowledge, so I ask you to share them with me. I think this is legal and constitutional with a view to preserving people's health and lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81111	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81112	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Ministers, we agree that in this epidemiological crisis, Croatia has taken balanced measures and we can say that we belong to a third of those European countries that have, in some ways, really, the weakest measures, taking into account the functioning of the entire system of economics, but also taking into account the health of the nation. And certainly you can say that from experience or a review of information from other countries and everything is based on science and expertise and indeed there is also vaccination that is not mandatory, we have enough vaccines and we have introduced a test that is for most and free of charge. However, despite all this, the Bridge claims that the Christmas dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic is being introduced because they are against the covid certificate, and they have them. Because they travel, they are vaccinated because they are protected. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81113	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81114	I'm very well-respected, ma'am. MPs, that's what I said to Mr. Bull, and now I'm sorry he's not here to hear it again. So they're for testing, and Covid confirms one of the aspects and it's the weakest test right now. Therefore, I would ask them to see what they are up against because, stressing the need for testing in some way, they are minorizing their fight against Covid's confirmation. So it's an amazing thing. And when it comes to Christmas, I don't know what you said or this presidency, so we might as well introduce the foreign ministry because we're all stealing professional work together, and the profession is the only one who can answer the fight against this epidemic. So let's let the profession work, we've established one model of decision-making that's very good that we've all stuck to it, maybe not today, and maybe we'd be on the other side again. But I will repeat what science has given us the solution, let's use it to solve this story. Until we reach a cleavage as long as it takes. The new variants will come in and out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81115	Thank you very much. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81116	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Beroš, the virus is new, we all learn, we often hear, and from experts we'll see, Omicron shows up, we don't know, we wait, we'll see. So we're all learning, but what we've heard so far is the fact that the vaccine doesn't protect us completely and means the vaccines can get infected, have milder symptoms. The same thing we learned was the fact that children also have milder symptoms. How much I monitor in the media has arrived a vaccine for children from 5 to 12 years of age, so I am interested in whether you are going to introduce Covid certificates for children and what is the reason that children should be vaccinated if they have mild symptoms, and if they are vaccinated again they will have milder symptoms. I personally don't see that making any sense. And I will also remind you that by definition in the European Council directives, every person under 18 is a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81117	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81118	Thank you. A very complex question, of course, cannot be answered in one minute. But I'll tell you next, I agree with you that the virus is new and we're learning. We could also learn something from the data that I just presented, which is that since 16.11. when they came into use the Covid certificate for a system outside of health and social welfare, we have tested 569.987 people. 8.515 people were positive, isolated, self-insulated, and we prevented the spread of the infection. A very effective way to prevent infection. Furthermore, when it comes to vaccination, I will repeat three constants of world science and expertise very well known, which is that the vaccine protects us from disease if we get infected, it is a less severe form of disease, and as a third, it is less transmitted to others. Why isn't the vaccine ideal? Because it's designed for an earlier layer of virus, not a new one. The children carry the disease. They don't get sick, it's true, but they carry the disease. Schools don't wear masks, they don't wear incidences. The spread is bigger. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81119	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81120	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Beroš and his associates, as I see the whole situation, so on the one hand, we have a very serious threat to life and health, a disease that is no joke and has so far taken more than 11,000 lives, but on the other hand we hear the cries and roars of those who relativise life and health, who even question the existence of this disease and obviously do not care to put them under the control of the epidemic and to suppress the epidemic, but to their own propaganda, populism, parasitic and modernity. And all of this on the back of Croatian citizens and on the back of their health and life which I find catastrophic, so please actually comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81121	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, I have already said on several occasions and from this place that I think that those who deny diseases that do not call very clearly for vaccination, who degrade the useful value of Covid's confirmation and testing really contribute to the spread of this threat. And I think their responsibility is great. And I already said once that it will match the Croatian people and history. That's what I really think. We're trying to build on our expertise and science to base our defenses. The use of Covid's confirmation is quite clear now I've told the data that confirms it. Who denies it, for what reasons is the real question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81123	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81124	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers will not agree on everything, each one has its own perspective. I'd say the following is for Covid to confirm that I see it being served primarily to force a larger number of people to vaccinate. I speak and use the term therapeutic vaccination, we know it's not a guarantee that someone won't get infected, and it relieves symptoms, therapeutic vaccination. However, a new thing has appeared in the pandemic that individual scientists and experts as you will have become media stars. Do you agree with my proposal that all those who publicly comment on vaccination measures should publicly announce whether they have received.../incomprehensible/... money from industry for the past 5 years. Do they have any relationship, that I think the public should know We have various forms of conflict of interest [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not only do officials have to publish such things. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81125	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81126	I agree with Mr. MPs, I support such an idea not only in the context of the Covid crisis but we know the impact of the industry's farms on what is, we also know what happened at the beginning of the crisis with the distribution of certain doses, so I think it's not bad. But I would still tell you something that I think is my attitude. Science truth is usually just one. Okay, at first, if something is new, we can have different thoughts, but this is an epidemic of viral disease, respiratory viral disease, neither the first or the last in the history of civilization, we know how to fight it, we have epidemiological measures, a rapid vaccine is developed, and thanks to technological development and the pharmaceutical industry. But we also have some other measures that are now kind of declared and found as some model that protects health. So the truth is one at this point, science like I said. It offers a solution, it's a vaccination, let's use it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81127	My colleagues, Grba Bujević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, Comrade Capak. This morning it could be heard that the headquarters is not a science profession, let's explain it a little bit in one particular example. If some do not know, Croatia is the first country in the EU to adopt measures to protect against the new oxid strain, which is very important, the first one in Europe, although not long before the strain has been discovered at all. Based on what? Based on the scientific and professional work of HZJZ, which plays a leading role in responding to this pandemic. As a profession, they give us solutions, and it is up to all of us to actually accept it and stick to those principles. And I congratulate my colleagues from HZZ who made this recommendation first, and now they're studying the scientific community of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81129	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Parliamentarians, for these words, I will indeed join in thanking the strike because this small group of hundreds and some people has been taking care of our health daily for 20 months and is taking measures that are very, very relevant. It is therefore necessary to point out once again that, after the UK that first adopted the measure, but no longer in the EU, the first in the EU to measure the measure, a new security measure when it comes to omicron. That's what our profession does. Therefore, I will repeat, the decisions of headquarters are exclusively based on the profession and science aimed at safeguarding the health and life of people. And there's one more thing I'd like to say about covid's confirmations we haven't been able to make a reference yet. I wouldn't agree with anyone who thinks they're a vaccination obligation or some kind of discrimination, just the other way around. They allow you to choose or I will vaccinate or have an alternative for free and available, which is a simple test.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81130	Thank you. Here you go, pal Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81131	Dear Minister. More than a year ago, I warned you that the main problem of the response to this crisis would actually be the ability to manage the system in this case with a health system. As we can see the answer was not, I would say satisfactory because the results resulting from the answer were I would say defeating. My colleagues talked before me about how many people died, more than I should have, and I'm not going to read those numbers again. I'm just sorry about that. What I would warn you now is that by law like this, by passing this law, you're actually alone in your speech, we've now set an example for public institutions, practically continuing to introduce it, you're going to make this society very unequal. One part of the people will make it impossible for them to live freely in this country. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81132	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81133	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. Yes, a large number of deaths, however, should be asked a question of responsibility for all of us together why so. I suggest that since the introduction of vaccination, the possibility of death could be drastically reduced, so all of us here had to resist vaccination, and we haven't done that, and therefore we have certain consequences. When it comes to responding to the health system, I am proud of it, in the Republic of Croatia there has been no lack of bed, lack of doctor, lack of respirator. On the way to my mobilization decision, we had redistributed workers and materially technical circumstances, unlike some of the more developed countries and neighbouring countries that needed help from others. Thank God we were not in this situation, so I am proud of the health response of our system and I thank all the doctors who worked in this context. We'll spread the use of covid confirmation if the epidemiological situation is so, the matter is very clear always being based on this reflection of ours on the epidemiological situation. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81134	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. One of the most famous Croatian bioethicalists, Tonči Matulić, who is also head of the Department of Moral Theology at the Catholic-Godslovna Faculty and the priest, said: "Instead of facing a global threat to the deadly virus, some of their moral forces are focusing on the protection of individual freedoms, and that is exactly how they threaten it because fundamental assumptions of freedom are threatened, and these are people's lives and health. While people with no age or earlier health conditions die, moral duty is a priority in protecting life and health. Of course, life and health are not absolute values, they are fundamental values, and that means that personal freedom is only possible if a person is alive, and true personal freedom can only be enjoyed if it is healthy. A dead man doesn't need freedom." I wonder if he's showing any noises about protecting personal freedom and calling for conscience with false values settings that have been compromised. that we actually come up with that kind of behavior. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] threaten freedom and the right to appeal to conscience? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81136	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81137	Thank you for asking. You've touched a very important topic of freedom all of us together. Freedom is not without rights, but also obligation, our freedom ends at the moment when we threaten another, and when we consciously reject the simple possibility of testing, it's even worse. What is very clear when it comes to that quote, all church credentials have said theirs when it comes to vaccination, about the protection of freedom, coercion must not be, and that is where we all agree, but it is not about coercion. It's about having a chance, it's best to vaccinate it without any dilemma like that. Anyone who doesn't want to have other options, testing, so there is no discrimination, no endangerment of any rights or freedom, and I can finally tell you that I'm happy to be at a meeting with the Bishop's Conference where we have just elaborated all of these elements that you have stated and this is resulting from a joint statement. in which a very clear view has been taken of the above elements. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81138	Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81139	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. In fact, you're also Mr. Capak on public protection against infectious diseases first I think that both this law and everything you're doing should be aimed at making the most of the fissure. I don't have a problem with vaccinations, or Covid's confirmations, and I'm giving them wherever they're looking for me, but unfortunately, they didn't look for me at the hospital this morning either. That's the problem. The problem is actually the implementation of this law. Sanitary inspectors won't be able to enforce this law, there's too few of them first. According to the internal structure regulation in Zagreb there are 24 of them, in Sinj there are 2 of them will be constantly in the town code, near Mr Bulja. That law won't be possible to implement, and that's the problem. Find some measures to convince the citizens in the cleavage. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81140	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81141	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, I thank you for your view of vaccination he is constructive based on the attitude of science and profession, for that I thank you. When it comes to using the Covid certificate in the healthcare system, I regrettably admit that you are not fully familiar with the problem. You know for a fact that I have personally been the greatest advocate since the spring use of Covid's certificate and that they were first introduced into the health system and social care system. We didn't purposely use all those patients who went into hospital exams, so they're using.../incomprehensible... specialist consular protection we didn't purposely give that obligation. Why? For the simple reason not to reduce the availability of health care. Even at primary health care level, it was not introduced for the same reason. Not to reduce the availability of health care. And that's what matters. Therefore, the availability of public services must be maintained and this was specified by our guidance when we were considering individual measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81142	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81143	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, we are not the only country in the world that has a Covida-19 monster, so the whole world is freaked out by this crisis and clearly that people in the profession are trying to balance the best possible. And we're one of the most liberal states in the world. What bothers me is that we don't care about the waist. We have a football game then I can let 4 million Croats put together a team, but now we also have 4 million people in this situation who talk about epidemiology and don't really have a slight relationship. And that's, that's what's terrible, and with that we're sending a message to young people that you don't invest in science, science doesn't need, we need to find those noises that will be loud that will go to Facebook on the site and then they'll actually say What we should do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81144	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81145	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I'm going to tell you the most sincerely liberal or not, the point is that they're balanced. And I, as health minister at a certain point, stood up for something more severe because I see the problem from one aspect of myself. But for the functioning of society, we have a number of other equally important aspects. It is therefore important that these measures are balanced, that the balance between maintaining health and in some way economic, maintaining economic flows. When you're talking about who's the only one who can get us out of this crisis, the answer is very clear I mean to everyone known only waist, only waist. And this initiative for the foreign ministry where everyone is doing other people's jobs and doing research on what and how to do it is unfortunately something that is very bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81146	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81147	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I think I've pointed out more than once to you, and in fact, in all our statements that we're on the same side as the profession, the scientific part of our aspirations to stop the pandemic as soon as possible. But here's a legal question about this law right now. This law provides for the obligation of responsible persons in public authorities to ensure that those security measures are implemented and to ensure that they are implemented by one or more persons for direct implementation. Now, Croatia has come to an even more contagious strain of Omicron, we don't know what it will bring us, there is a great chance that it will soon need to bring even more stringent measures. So my question is whether this law covers you punishing every single person responsible. What if they're gonna need Covid at malls, restaurants, cafes. Did you cover all the addresses with this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarian, I must confess that this time the same question as most of your former ones was appropriate. However, Article 47(2), point (a) of Article 8a is replaced by the following: allow these addresses to be subsequently added to the headquarters decisions. Therefore, it is not a dispute and it will be possible, but I also sincerely hope that we will understand that vaccination is the best way out of this crisis. If we don't want the vaccine, we have a test and indirect Covid confirmation, and hopefully we'll all stop the spread of this virus together and we won't even have to think about any new measures. However, if we are there again, the profession that analyzes daily a series of elements relating to the description of the epidemiological situation and make sure that the profession determines when, where to introduce some other additional measures or something like that, but the possibility in the law is open and it stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81150	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, here's to thank you and Mr. Capak once again for making people with disabilities vaccines on several points and in continuity, which helps all of us together to enable people with disabilities to be vaccinated and tested and all that is needed for them. And now I would only comment, I have received the answer that, in the meantime, these provisions of the law will also apply to institutions and protection workshops that employ people with disabilities, which are in, which are the majority founder A unit of local self-government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Maybe that's what the law should do. in a way to define it to be known. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's only from the decision that comes from headquarters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81152	Thank you, colleague Lukacic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81153	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian, for not thanking us for the fact that we are doing our job, and we do not think that sometimes we are not wrong but in the best interest. Now, with circumstances and reflections, of course, we have taken into account the fact that disabled persons should in some ways have available places for vaccination. When it comes to this particular element, there is my State Secretary of Law, he heard everything you said before this session, and also now so that I believe he will take into account all the above and that we will go out to meet and further if something is not clearly defined, change because please tell me who has ever passed a law that I will not say without making mistakes, but without the elements of comprehensive thinking. Especially when it is brought into the context of international, global, threat and crisis. So here's an apology if we weren't clear enough, but we'll certainly try to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81154	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81155	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Ministers, the responsibility of parliamentary deputies is extremely high. We are speaking in public space and it is extremely important that we speak and equally related to vaccination did not need either the headquarters or the prime minister or any other say that I should be vaccinated, it was a responsibility to me and everyone else. I've listened to science and listened to those and vaccination is one of the achievements, if not, the question is where would they be. And I absolutely every time I use a message to tell people about my people you're inoculating yourself for responsibility to yourself, to your loved ones around you. There's one thing I'd like to get an answer to. Therefore, Croatia lost to the Crown, or to Covid, the city of the size of Makarska or the city of Knin, and it is actually terrifying. What's equally the fact that in recent weeks we've been a different country by the number of dead than the crown, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81157	Thank you, ma'am, for your apology, thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Parliamentary MPs, an extremely important question. I'll repeat the answer earlier. At this point since there's been a vaccination every death is too much. Any death could be prevented except, of course, in extreme cases, by an elderly person with a comorbidity with an immunely poor system that does not allow an adequate response to the vaccine. Therefore, the answer to why there are so many deaths at this time is also hidden in the fact that we have not been vaccinated in sufficient amount in time. What this government has done in this context is that it has obtained sufficient amounts of free vaccine, that it has provided punches, that it has hired a patronage system, a system of family doctors to further encourage by calling the elderly population on the phone of people for vaccination, we have not reached them. Please let everyone consider their own aspect of responsibility at the expense of what you said was every spoken word Important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81158	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81159	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, for over 650 days in the fight against the Crown of the Virus, you have been relying on trust with our citizens. We therefore make this law to protect the health and life of our fellow citizens. And I'm going to give an example and data from my county, the data was from yesterday. 76 people positive for Covid was on hospital treatment yesterday from that 15 were on the respirator, whether it was for some small and insignificant number, I don't think so. Since the beginning of the pandemic, 314 people have died in my county as well, if it's for some. When compared to 100 people who got sick, almost two died from Covid. They were someone's parents, someone's children, someone's family, and friends. Equally why it's so hard to listen to the profession and science, why it's hard to make a small contribution to the fight against this Covid to make it easier for ourselves but also for the health system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81160	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians, some call me a statistician when I read these epidemic-related numbers, and I don't think that's always very good. But now these numbers that you've listed really make us think, and most of all, the finding that 65 to 75% of those who are sick, who are more difficult to get on the respirator or who unfortunately died, could have been with us today that they've been vaccinated. They're our parents, they're our relatives, they're part of our wider community. Vaccination is unquestionably the best way out of this crisis. And that's what we need to say. The question of the organisation of the health system is raised, the question of guidelines is asked, I am happy that we have a third version of the abdated guidelines for hospital health care and primary health care, which determines how to treat hospitals, but the fact that we have too much It's the unvaccinated citizens that lead to this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81162	You don't have to stand there while the minister speaks. You can take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81163	I learned, some habits never change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81164	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81165	Thank you. First of all, part of the citizens were vaccinated voluntarily, as we support the vaccine, but part of the citizens were vaccinated under duress because you took their freedom with repressive measures and the third part of the citizens did not want to be vaccinated precisely because of you because you illegally introduced Covid certificates that you have admitted today because you are coming for Covid confirmation of Covid certificate right into the assembly. I ask you, when you have politicized the headquarters with statistics of 11,000 dead, with debts of large-scale drugs, so from hospitals that have prevented the normal functioning of the system, it is my question why you allowed this health system to be overloaded anyway by Plenkovic and Maric to cut your ministry's budget next year for 4 billion kuna. So, 4 billion people took from you, look at the budget, maybe they cheated on you, whether they lost confidence in you, why they took from you, whether all the activities would fall back on the burden of valuable healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81166	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81167	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. I know you, and I'm sure you know that these decisions are not illegal, they're legal, amendments to the Civil Protection Act, amendments, no, not today, two innovations, I read to you at the beginning of my presentation, so far they've established an institutional way of responding to the crisis that the Constitutional Court has confirmed. I don't mind that it continues to question the Constitutional Court will give its own right, but all that is done is based on science and expertise and focused on protecting the health and life of Croatian citizens. Furthermore, when you said in the first part of your address the fact that someone is forced to vaccinate, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unless someone wants to vaccinate, and we understand that, and that's bad. Why? Because it stays One tank where the virus can be [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] spread, mutate, where it can spread [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] A new variant, but. [[The incursion president: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81168	Minister, thank you. Comrade Jaksic, here you go. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81169	I'm sorry, we were just trying to determine when they could leave. Dear Minister. First of all, I congratulate you on the good introduction to this debate at the communication level because you have done your communication package very wisely, a little expertise, a little compassion, a little empathy through parliamentary MPs, and ultimately the fact that you know how to communicate shows your preferential result in parliamentary elections. But I can also say that it is not correct to call the parliamentary representatives to the fullest extent possible to know that your government in this covid pandemic is wherever it may have escaped the reluctance, and even today, we are ultimately avoiding making some important decisions by two-thirds of the majority rather than defending the headquarters as it corresponds only to the ruling ones. You did very well your job until the moment someone didn't declare victory over the crown, 11,000 people died but I wouldn't have only two questions about it now. How will it affect county hospitals that are deprived of debts like Koprivnica-križevnica 6 billion kuna less? And what measures await us for Christmas and New Year's holidays, and they are related to gatherings, and you know that.../The speakers will speak at the same time./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81170	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81171	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, MP. I'm gonna take some turns maybe from behind. The measures will depend exclusively on the epidemiological situation, it is now improving if it does not worsen further, unless the omicron makes some game change there will be no new measures, but if the situation changes then of course we will introduce new measures. When it comes to calling someone in the House for something, I will really call all those who do not call for vaccination, I will call all those who call for a gathering at the time of the pandemic, I will call all those who minorise the use of covid certificates and testing because indeed from the bottom of my soul I think it is good for the health of Croatian people. And when it comes to the budget, we are in extraordinary and medical and economic circumstances. The budget is not passed by kidnapping, it is agreed upon and if this is a strong and good agreement and the Government is strong. This budget is therefore a reflection of what is based on both health and other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81172	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81173	Thank you, Mr. President. Here as a vaccinated person and as mayor of a middle-sized city, I will respect the laws that are passed in this House whether I agree with them or not. I'd just make it right. Updated some information, nothing's free. Taxes more precisely, citizens and entrepreneurs pay huge sums of taxes and of course they have the right to ask why they cannot use certain services if they are already paying them, so that primarily everyone has the right to question any decision. You mentioned that you're willing to listen to any solution that would lead to a greater fissure of 20 seconds isn't enough for me to define some things here, but I'm at the disposal of everyone. I think, in fact, that for the further course of this crisis, it doesn't take so much knowledge actually of medicine not in terms of communication but actually some kind of communication towards masses, and that you're actually an adviser because as a minister, I think you have far more serious problems, especially with debts in hospitals in Zagreb County, but as far as we've heard... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81175	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, MP. I thank you for this first part of your presentation, and this second part of your exposure refers to what we just said, so budget. The fact that it's not free that someone pays for it, and it's exactly that fact that it's reflected in the entire budget of how slowly we're talking about being. You don't need to see things segmentally from one angle and you're right it's not free, although at that point citizens don't pay out of their pockets, but it goes from budgets. And that's why this story about the budget is what it is because this epidemic is costing us so much. And when it comes to that, you have my phone number, you can answer with any suggestions, and somebody I didn't listen to if the idea was founded. We will do everything to raise awareness of vaccination, raise awareness of the adherence to epidemiological measures, and thank you as the head of one city for recognising this measure as effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81176	Thank you. My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81177	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Your Honor. So can you tell me who you think is responsible for what is such a high level of those who have not been vaccinated? So a low level of cleavage that's a fact. We had the "Break Up", "Be Responsible", campaign and lack of information have certainly contributed to the fact that not enough citizens have recognized this vaccination measure as something that would be useful to them. Who do you really think is responsible for this untimely reaction to the fact that citizens are under-informed and under-involved in their health, who do you actually consider to be responsible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81178	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81179	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. I will start with us, so I am not running away from the evaluation of our role, so I ask you to listen to everything that is headquarters and what I have personally said from the first day when the vaccine became available and what our messages were, please listen and then consider my personal role in that campaign and coming to that. And besides, I think there are three reasons that, in some ways, are based on that mistrust and that question. The first is the lack of confidence in public policies that results from the fact that we have entered into democratically from a totalist arrangement and that we are still learning democracy. Furthermore, the fact that most of us live relatively comfortablely in our own apartments and that we are unable to sacrifice part of a personal committee to protect the wider social community. And the third element I think is present, which is what kind of messages we send, and we all have parliamentary agents on vaccinations. We're not uniforms here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81180	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81181	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I believe in science, I have no doubts about vaccination, I am a great advocate of the same, and I have nothing against introducing or even stricter epidemiological measures if they will achieve the primary goal, which is to protect the health and life of citizens. If it'll save one life, I'll support it. However, the question I ask myself, I ask you, is whether the introduction of Covid is an epidemiological measure in a situation where it only introduces public institutions, state and local ones on the one hand, and on the other hand, where we have the same mass of people where it is greater, the greater risk of spread of infection and spread of viruses such as shopping centres, such as these cafes, epidemiological Covid restaurants as measures we don't have because the state doesn't have the likely means to refund jobs. Secondly, the way you bring this by disenfranchising the parliament, and it's about limiting rights and freedoms. It's not good... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81182	Time's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81183	It's hard to ask a question, let alone answer it in one minute. But I'll say the following. So, the primary goal is certainly to protect the health and life of people. Secondly, where it is being introduced, we were very clear that it was first introduced into the state and public sector because we wanted to show our own responsibility and by example to others mainly private sector how to act. We also never said that if the epidemiological situation requires it to expand the use of Covid's confirmation. So we will if this is the case. I hope it won't be so we won't have to spread, but that was our goal. It's absolutely a fact that Covid's confirmations are working, that they've been proven to prevent the spread of infection transmissions, and we've set out in this order for reasons already mentioned. So, first in your backyard to solve the story, and then on. And yet that balance between economics and health is very important. That balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81184	Now it's time for my colleague Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81185	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the Honorable President of the Assembly, today we are celebrating 10 years of signing of the Treaty of Accession of the EU, here is a copy of the treaty here and it is a good thing that we remember some things and values of the EU. The first thing this Covid referendum and that would like to abolish Covid's confirmation is that Croatian citizens have lost the right to move or cannot go to other countries. Secondly, to remember the health union that the president of the commission put on the flexibility of EU funds where we paid for all the masks and respirators from them, the acquisition of a common vaccine and I invite more citizens, and also to congratulate you and Mr. Capak on the real good fight that we managed to secure the season, but that we also have a record GDP, and that we have managed to preserve the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81186	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81187	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, thank you for the fact that you have apostrophe of the EU's role in response to this crisis. You remember everything began to happen just as Croatia took over the Presidency of the European Council and I remember some of our EPSCO meetings where we played a leading role in considering further steps in defence of this epidemic. It is clear that participation in public procurement, joint public procurement and vaccines and also medicines that are just coming is essential. We small country, which is important for the population and the economic power, are certainly not a relevant factor in some large pharmaceutical industry, so it is of paramount importance that we participate in so-called ‘. European Commission’s joint procurement of vaccines and, more importantly, new potential medicines already on the table against this dangerous and serious disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81188	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81189	Mr Beroš just now insulted Croatian citizens because Plenkovic is not giving money to the economy but to the taxpayers. You know this statement testifies that your government has lost its sense of reality, but also of decency. Furthermore, one of the main obstacles when we talk about measures is to in some way insult common sense. For example, we have a recent visit by French President Macron where Croatia and the French delegation sit together in a restaurant almost each other's laps and no one has a mask, and a waiter who does physical work must wear a mask. Can you explain to me how a waiter can infect someone, and members of the delegation can't. Is the crown so intelligent it doesn't work through officials, but it works through the ordinary world? Are you aware that these very situations completely compromise your epidemiological policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81190	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81191	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not aware of it, and I'm sure they don't compromise because it's perfectly clear if restaurants work and work because the epidemiological situation is such that I can work so that people sitting in restaurants can't eat with a mask. And their transmission of the virus is another epidemiologically acceptable to me. When it's not acceptable there's a waist that'll say that's not the case. A waiter who serves in the light of a number of circumstances, since he is far more in contact than he who sits at that table in one day because he serves a number of other guests is at greater risk for himself and others. So I understand that you don't realize that you don't understand this problem because you're not an epidemiologist. I'm sorry that my colleague Capak can't intervene like this because he's not an official, but he could also further explain to you what I forgot to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81192	Nothing, then, has been withdrawn well. Then let's get on with it, Colon Mlinaric Replic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81193	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister. I'm not gonna ask you about covid certificates, I'm not gonna ask you about vaccinations, not vaccinations just tell you to get your hands off the kids, because it won't give you a good breed. Come on, calm the HDZ. [[I'm sorry, I didn't hear.]] I will not ask you about covid certificates, I will not ask you about vaccination, I will ask you about one medicine called Legeveria, a medicine that Slovenia has approved that helps people who are infected especially in the first five days that people do not end up on oxygen. [[The President's intrusion: Calm down a little.]] Tell me, how much did Croatia order this medicine? Tell me why we're late for Slovenia, why are there always some in front of us, and if it is known that this medicine helps people not to end up on the respirator, then we would actually prevent mortality from getting reduced?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81194	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81195	Here's how it is. Thank you. You see the profession better than I do, so this is the version of a particular manufacturer's medicine, that I am now not publicly communicating its name with which Croatia is in the negotiations on the purchase of certain quantities and directly means directly and indirectly via the European Commission. This product is cheaper than the Slovenian medicine, not less effective. But you can be sure that as a minister I will do everything to make sure that what comes to the market, and provenly works unlike any veterinary medicinal product I will definitely consider, not only me but also the profession, it is the task of the profession. It monitors the latest scientific developments and developments on the plan. And I'll tell you in conversation we're with two major international pharmaceutical companies for their drugs that are still in the research phase, when they're confirmed, when EMA regulator or FDA to confirm that they can be used in clinical practice, you can be sure that we'll do everything we can to get to those drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81196	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go, it was a mistake because a coworker on a video connection they always go at the end, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81197	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. During the morning, there is a sign of one identity of attitudes between the SDP and the Mosta, arguing that this law represents a deal with political inexperiences, even stating that we could name lex Milenic. If it were guided by their logic, then you'd have to say it's a ban on drinking alcohol before driving a fight with drunks and drunks. I don't mean to say it or to say that they're drunks, but the fact is they don't live in real time. At a time when 60, 70 people die daily, dispute one document that will reduce the possibility of spreading on the one hand and, on the other hand, the data that we have already presented by using the covid certificate has been found positive in the public sector in fact refutes any argument that goes in order for one of these documents to be put out of effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81198	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81199	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. You have seen my tendency that even in these short interventions of a minute where you cannot say anything relevant or develop a topic to a certain extent I am trying to highlight the useful importance of the covid certificate. The only alternative is locdown, the others are gone, or if anyone thinks they've got something articulating, we'll listen to everything. At this point there is no better option and that is what is extremely important. You yourself said the numbers that confirm everything, we know the click we found positive among the tested over 8,000 that's the best way to prevent the spread of the infection. But I'll also tell you when it comes to this law here today, it's really focused on protecting people's health and life, and it's not just the individual leaders of the individual environments that are having a problem with the story. We have in every major city a person who for certain reasons or ignorance the non-information shall be opposed to the above mentioned. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81200	Thank you. We're going to the last line, the video is connected by colleague Opačak Bilic, do you hear us? Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81201	Dear Minister. Here you have made it clear that the measures are not discriminatory and that they do not bring divisions. Here I apologize for the expression, but I really don't know how else to explain it to you, so I'm going to ask you, are you listening to the news, are you watching TV, are you aware of what you've caused by your ambiguous measures? Are you saying that it's not a division of people being kicked out and they can't use public transportation because they didn't put on a mask because people can't access a bill in the mail because they can't do it without that famous confirmation of coming to work? Didn't she share that with you? So here I congratulate you at the level of the view of human rights both you and the Advocate General who does not react and by the Constitution of the court which is a ban on movement has not seen as a violation of the right to freedom of movement. And now, additionally, you're introducing punishment for implementing your ambiguous measures because one day something can be done, the other can't do that to you at a given time. I'm just going to say one last thing, we know that most of our people through life are influenced by prayer and often pray for health. And what did the COvid confirm? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] They've led people to beg for disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81202	Thank you, dear colleague Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81203	Pray for covid's disease to be calm with covid's confirmation for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81204	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81205	Dear Madam Parliamentarian. So, at the time of the 20 months of the epidemic behind us, when many people get seriously ill, when more than 11,000 of our citizens died that you doubt the value of masks and epidemiological measures used, it's completely incomprehensible to me. Discrimination is gone, basic epidemiological measures must be respected if we want to end this epidemic and there is absolutely no such thing as an epidemic. And I will also say that I thank you here is the last replica so that I can take advantage of the possibility of those 2 million and 214 thousand of our citizens who have decided on vaccination, who have recognised the importance of the greatest scientific and medical achievement in the course of the fight against covids and who have been vaccinated and thus contribute to the health of the population. Likewise, all those involved in public transport must be aware that they are protecting themselves and others by putting on a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81206	Thank you. I thank the Minister, we're almost from the replica, so please return to your seat. Do representatives or committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. A colleague of Sablar Dračevac, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81207	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Associates. At the 42nd session of the Committee held on 8 December, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases with the final proposal for a law. In the discussion, the committee members supported the amendments and additions to the law, deeming it essential to protect the lives and health of all citizens, and that in the situation of the Covida-19 disease pandemic, all relevant and necessary measures should be taken to protect the life and health of citizens in order to protect the lives of people and the health of the entire population. In this regard, individual committee members felt it necessary to ensure the implementation of uniform, complete and clear measures, and that timely information on each decision and measure is necessary, which also affects the rights of citizens, which was agreed by the Ombudsman. It is difficult to prescribe anti- epidemiemic measures that are fair for all and further highlighted in the debate, but the most important thing is that the opinion of experts and experts in the field of epidemiology and infectology, or in the field of public health, is the basis and outcome of all measures adopted. In the discussion, the members of the committee felt that there was a need for major amendments to the law and that they needed to be adopted by the two-thirds majority of all HS representatives. In addition, the opinion is that measures, i.e. measures, should also be taken to cafes and restaurants, and not only to public authorities which are considered illogical. Furthermore, it is also concerned that the lack of numerous, therefore, fears that the insufficient number of sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate have been authorised to exercise control over timely, timely measures to protect the public from infectious diseases. In further discussion, the opinion is also expressed that the specific needs of individual groups of citizens, or those who cannot receive the vaccine because of their impaired health conditions, nor because of the poor property situation, should bear the costs of testing, and should not be discriminated against by the basis of their health or their property situation. After the debate was held, the board members decided to propose HS to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Protection against Contagious Diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81208	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the board? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first in line is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81209	In this high house, I have spoken hundreds of times in my previous term, I will dare say maybe a thousand times, but if I had to single out the two speeches that are most important in my court, it was a speech when we adopted the Istanbul Convention when I was harshly opposed and left the ruling coalition. The second speech will just happen, and that's this one now. So, at first I will point out that although I am president of the Croatian Sovereigns Club and speak for the club, I speak primarily of my personal position. So, first of all, this is Hrvoje Zekanovic's position. I will stress another fact that needs to be checked, and that is that I will say unfortunately by my knowledge the only one vaccinated from us 24 to the right of HDZ, from the Home Movement Club, the Bridge Club, the Croatian Sovereigns Club and several independent representatives, I will stress the need to check. So, I'm with my vaccination, and I've been over the coronary virus for a long time, and I've given my opinion about the preparation. We all know, I guess we all know that overcoming today gives us the best protection. However, exactly my vaccination was my attitude towards the preparation. And immediately I will say one more thing at the beginning that someone would not put me on the wrong side, so Croatian sovereigns or I am personally in opposition and will always show the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition for many reasons, because of what Milorad Pupovac recently said about ethnic cleansing because it is not good. However, about the thing where I will understand the common sense that something is right I will have the opposite view of who might potentially vote for me tomorrow. I've heard a lot of thesis here, and I'm going to point out one more thing at the beginning to get along. We Croatian sovereigns are against confirmation in principle. We are also in favour of discussing all measures of civil protection headquarters in this highest house. Today we saw that it makes sense and I'm going to warn you of a few things where you... illogical. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, what is crucial is that all of you who are for confirmation or against confirmation must make one thing clear from this pay phone, because of your attitude end up on respirators. So, you mustn't leave that somewhere in the fus note invisible and you have to say that the vaccine saves people's lives. And you may be ashamed of all of you who from this pay phone in HS put that fact in your fus note. I'm going to point out, against confirmation of discussion in HS, against indifference and inconsistencies, but my people are not against certain facts that are common sense. Today there are three of us sovereigns at the moment, six of us at the club, three of us have covid. There's a colleague in the hospital with a mask on his face, with a mask on his face, and regardless of my conviction to his friend and fellow brother that he's being vaccinated for you here, because of us, he didn't do it here. Not him, but thousands of others, and be ashamed of this place, I will say to all of you who deny it, people listen to you as they must be ashamed of all the national televisions that are in the crucial period when the vaccine came, which is your mistake, the minister, interviewed the midwives at the market and asked them what they thought of the vaccine. One grandmother's against it, the other one's against it. And I have to say this, it's very important that I say this is a risk vaccine? It is. Is there anyone who died of the vaccine? In Croatia, it's supposed to be just one, probably a lot more. We know hundreds and thousands of cases in the world and it's a fact and the vaccine is a risk, but 100 or 1,000 times the risk of that damn disease. And that's what we have to say, vaccination is a risk, and all those who think they're going to get away from that crown and pass what they would say to me in Sibenik won't, will get it one way or another. As far as the referendum is concerned, I have stepped up politicians through the referendum and I would like all those who collect signatures today, and I support the referendum in principle, and so this referendum, with the same gleam, to engage in a referendum on the Kuna or for the protection of the Kuna, which unfortunately did not collect enough signatures. Dear Minister, I'm going to warn you of a few specific things. There are 1,000 of them. I already warned you at the stop. Croatian Post Office, anyone can stand in line in Croatia mailing them 50, exchanging the virus regardless of the mask, eventually the poor clerk on the counter, must ask them for a covid certificate where they are called fascists, people on sick leave, end up in psychiatry literally because of it. You told me it was a micro problem, it's not a micro, it's a macro problem that you have to solve. If you can go to the store without them then allow mail. And that's what's wrong. My colleague Habib said we won't be able to travel. Comrade Habiban, that's a lie. Anyone can be vaccinated and traveled. It's not an argument, it's a real argument. Anyone can be vaccinated and traveled. Each and every one of us is willing to do it because it's important to him or not to him. Here from this pay phone in HS unfortunately I've been unique and different many times. On the issue of Istanbul's party counterparts who are launching the referendums today, they kept quiet who were watered. When I was defending life from conception, I was the only one. When we sovereigns defended the euro, we were the only ones. And again, I will make it clear and loud not to Andrej Plenkovic and this kind of Croatian-Serbian trade coalition because that is our position. But if you want to hear from me what I don't believe, you'll never hear it, even if you're not dealing with politics for a second. Just as I will uncompromisingly defend my life from conception, so I will say here, you people are responsible, because you people don't vaccinate because you convinced them of the fus note don't vaccinate. You're all talking against confirmation and I'm getting nervous, but in the end, say what's important. Our President Milanovic has also vaccinated and advocated vaccination, but it is always in your Fus note. It must not be in the fus note, it must be primary, main, visible to all, we all like to call ourselves Christians. I'm just interested in all those who are visiting worship, prayer communities, pilgrimages, whether they will confess why someone is suffering right now on the respirator, why someone has lost his grandfather, father, daughter, son, and the rest because they believed Facebook, Telegram, and not common sense. Sometimes some things in politics don't bring benefits and I'm personally and I personally got hurt by my family when I said goodbye to Andrej Plenkovic. I may lose the political popularity I have here, but I don't care, I don't care at all because I've always spoken from this pay phone to my conscience, I'm talking now, and I'm going to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81210	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Mlinarić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81211	238th Chairman. Just for my colleague Zekanovic, I don't know if you're letting anyone yell at me, believe me, I'm not letting anyone yell at me, and there's a fist attack on this, it's not communication, and I'm letting him go now, and I'm not gonna let him go next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81212	My friend Mlinarich, you're getting a warning. So, colleague Zekanovic was temperamentally speaking as they know and some other MPs were temperamentally speaking, and especially I didn't realize this last, what are you doing, you're going to hit him, what? I don't understand. [[No, no, no.]] So what do you say you won't let him speak like that? He spoke temperamentally without any, without any, there was nothing controversial, so I don't understand. If you disagree with what he was saying, it's your business, but don't... So don't, don't say things like that. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81213	Article 238. Comrade Mlinarić, you are free as you voted yesterday for the amendment of Hajdas Doncic, who is taking all the funds for the memorial of the victims of the Crossroad, do so further, but my advice is to you to agree with your ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81214	Your colleague Zekanovic has received a warning as well as his colleague Mlinarić has received a warning and please let us lower our tone a little, the debate has been very correct so far, we have heard different attitudes, but we stick to the rules. Here's a colleague of Bartulic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and Associates, I will also stick to how I see common sense and always try to tell the truth what I think, by my conscience, of course, I don't think it's the exclusive thing that belongs to my colleague Zekanovic, so we all probably want this to go away as soon as possible, and that the less he dies from the crown of the virus. However, first of all, I should like to say something that I am very pleased with from this replica, dear Minister, I am pleased that you have agreed with me on the need for scientists and other experts who publicly influence the opinion of citizens around this pandemic to publish their relations with the pharma industry. As far as conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest is concerned, it is not only for us officials but also for other forms of this phenomenon, unfortunately, and I think that we need to be as transparent as possible because we will insist on it until the end. So, I used the concept of therapeutic vaccination, we don't have to agree, but I think it's clear that what many people hoped or expected at first that the vaccination that well-being will bring, I think we know something more now, and that the efficiency is falling greatly after 5 or 6 months, and that's why it takes these extra, extra of these boosters and so on. However, I will repeat as so far my personal attitude. So, I have never questioned that for many of our citizens vaccination is a good solution especially for the most vulnerable groups and I think unfortunately that Croatia has failed there that too few elderly people have been vaccinated and that is why we have such unfortunately the number of deaths. I think there should be a greater emphasis, and much smaller on this debate about possible vaccination of children. That's my opinion. So put an emphasis and resolve because we're not all at the same risk. But as far as Covid's confirmation and what we're talking about today, it's on the agenda today that these amendments to the law are similar. Look, many countries before us had this measure of strength and experience are such that the figures in these countries were not favourable. So, once again, I will point out that there is no need for us to have any less value complex in Croatia and that we must necessarily follow as many other countries as possible, richer, more powerful, larger perhaps but it is not necessary to follow their example because I am not convinced that they are managing better or better than we are in this pandemic. I am not convinced that when I look at the figures in the EU from the Baltic countries via Germany, Austria, Slovenia and so on, this measure has not proved to be effective, and I do not think that it is the cause of Covid's confirmations being introduced, it is not the main cause of the fall, but it is going to be such a curve and I hope that the new variations will not lead to a rapid increase. But we see how people react. So, you're aware of that, you have a great responsibility. The students were mentioned earlier, so why are the students protesting, the other day they were in front of the Faculty of Kinsiology. So in order to attend class, they have to show a negative test or vaccination certificate, and we know that they have to pay for the test. So, people who work in the public sector that's a commitment and it's a state that covers but not for all citizens, so it's not the same rule for all of us, and that's why I would say rightly and logically that some are rebelling, especially young people who see it as actually one big obstacle in their daily lives. Another would say about this, these phenomena in this pandemic as much as this trouble is a great, unfortunately human experience shows that for many, it is also an opportunity to maybe spend some of the financial interests and things like that. The head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, recently said that the possibility of vaccination being made mandatory throughout the EU should be opened. I think it's very important that our public knows that her husband, Heiko von der Leyen, runs a biotechnology company that deals with the same therapy that's behind Pfizer's vaccine. So we have various forms of conflict of interest, different, different, different pressures that exist, it's simply undeniable. So, every day for 20 months we hear the same thing about the number of deaths, etc., unfortunately that number is too high in Croatia, but people die from other diseases, it's not every night in the journals. So we have a situation as it is and the state must act. It's undeniable. And I have repeatedly publicly, so I will repeat, publicly commended the government for failing to comply with the pressures and demands for even more rigorous measures. I was saying it publicly and I'll still say it when the praise is earned. However, in my opinion, a turn in the strategy in this pandemic struggle has happened, and I don't think I understand why, yet, if the government has claimed somewhat with the right to manage the crisis relatively against other countries, why it was going this way that was missed, missed. So, Austria, Germany doesn't have to be our role models at all, I mean, God forbid we get to their standard of living as soon as possible, but in approach to this pandemic I'll take the right to have one abstention over what they're doing all the way to Australia. And Australia is a very developed, rich country so far quite liberal and we see what's going on. In Australia we have covid camps where they are sent against will to stay there for 14 days. So that's one phenomenon around us. But what happens behind the scenes, so that's what's the point of my exposure today, it needs to be all transparent. You're the first on strike, you'll be criticised as well as the government as well as the headquarters, citizens have different opinions we won't agree on, that's all he said would be expected. However, many individuals who have an interest or benefit from this problem do not publicly publish their relations, perhaps even the concrete amounts they receive through the Grants or other cooperation from the industry’s farms. And I'm glad you agreed that it's very important for the public to be directed to the end. Like the so-called. Independent analysts who interpret the political reality in the evening, while working for individual political options and do not publish it in conflict of interest because they are not honest and objective, as well as scientists, the same principle. Scientists who have a strong influence on public opinion should publish what kind of relationship they are in and if there is a connection to the farm industry. I don't think it's a secret to many who follow it, but I think the general public needs to know that, and we will insist on that in the Homeland Movement. I'll say that this debate is certainly welcome today, but we were late, so we should have talked about this earlier, much earlier, and I think that some MPs who say that maybe with a two-thirds majority of these measures, I think they're right. That would be good for our public if there was a broader consensus, broader, which spreads it better, so that I finally resume it. So I have nothing against freedom of choice, however, many have been vaccinated, let all the vaccinations they want, but what we see lately is not the way to a solution and I think That we should all calm our passions together. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81216	Thank you, too. We are now going to the third debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81217	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. The HDZ Club will, of course, agree and vote in favour of a proposed law that further regulates the legal framework that allows for the rapid implementation of measures that are primarily aimed at protecting people's lives and health, not only during this, but during global pandemics and national epidemics that can happen in the future. This legal framework ensures effective and timely protection of human health, while ensuring that measures and their intensity last only while these circumstances last. In this way, it is ensured that the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens only restricts to the extent necessary and which corresponds to the nature of the need for their restriction. It should be made very clear by not knowing what million times we are likely to have the possibility of treating, preventing this disease, that we can vaccinate and that it is completely incomprehensible to me at least why people don't vaccinate. Croatia has enough vaccines to vaccinate the entire population, vaccination it free of charge, unlike some other countries where it must be paid. Each unvaccinated person’s death is part of an individual’s choice not to be vaccinated and, of course, puts himself at risk, as well as others, of his neighbor. Since the introduction of covid certificates into the health system and in the state and public service so far we have about 560, once again I will repeat... 568,929 tests of which 8,515 were positive, that means that the covid of confirmations according to epidemiologists prevented further infection for more than 42,000 people. If we assume that an average infected person infects up to five people, resulting in perhaps more than 600 hospitalized and more than 200 deceased, this confirms the effectiveness of the covid certificate. The certificates go towards protecting people's health and lives and let's face it, the government has singled out far more for health care than she planned, only to fight the covids have spent more than 40 million people, our money, taxpayers' money. Should we spend that much more money? Is there more people to die so that some light up and clear out the fog that obviously wraps them up? When we talk about the amendments to this law, it is important to make it clear that it does not punish individuals who, for any reason or even completely unwarranted and unreasonable, do not want to test them for free of charge or free of charge, and are allowed to do so. On the contrary, those in positions where decisions and statements and conduct can have a negative effect on the health of those same individuals, even leading to their death, are punished. Then will they bear their lives on their conscience, or will they pretend that it is none of their business, that someone else, the minister sitting here, is ruling, someone ten. No, they'll be responsible for that. And because of this, these penalties for changes and additions and the law are far too small for such a burden that these individuals in positions, if they have consciences, will bear on their souls. And now something about a story that's funny to me right now. And that's the story of alleged stasis, the expression as if it came out of the AKP's agitprop. Stories that aim to deceive people and show falsely that in Croatia some strange parasite governs everything regarding Covid pandemic, and that at the head of that body is terrible to say, Minister of the Interior. A civilian who used to be a diplomat. So let's see how it is in countries that have a far greater diplomatic, democratic tradition than ours. Here in Italy, you can't say that the democratic country is not fighting the pandemic is led by the commander of the Italian military logistics, the active General of France Paolo Figliuolo, in Portugal you can't say that it's not democratic, at the head of the crisis headquarters is the active vice-admiral.../incomprehensible/... in Germany someone won't say that it's not a democratic state trying to form a new crisis headquarters at whose head will be General Karsten.../incomprehensible/... So, what are we talking about? Who are we kidding? Why are we fooling the people? He also advocated, and today it was heard, although somewhat modestly here, much louder of course on the street that all decisions regarding the pandemic should be made in the assembly and 2/3 of the majority. So all of us sitting here, let's be honest with each other. What kind of political consolidation is now with us, so we two-thirds couldn't agree that all these chairs are red, let alone that on a daily basis, I stress that we make key decisions on such important issues on a daily basis, practical issues based on scientific knowledge that human lives depend on. It's not like that in other countries either. Hungary, for example, has made not only a decision that the prime minister, without any time limit, can introduce measures, but rather a decision that provides for up to 5 years in prison for the deliberate spread of misinformation undermining the government's efforts to suppress the epidemic. The Slovak parliament gave up on this and gave the government the authority to decide on everything in connection with the pandemic. In the Czech Republic, it is the Prime Minister and Minister of Health's decision. In Slovenia, the government makes all these decisions. In Poland, the government makes those decisions. In Lithuania, the government makes those decisions. In Italy, too, it was decided. Therefore, it is not just us as some want to present falsely and again misleadingly the people. And now, in the end, let me say something. Croatia is a secular state and I as a believer think it's good, but we can't close our eyes on the fact that according to the last census of the population, not now, but in 2011 in Croatia, 86.28% of the population are Catholics. And now, let's remember, Pope Francis has been vaccinated and advocates vaccination. Holy Father Benedict XVI The Pope in peace has been vaccinated and advocated vaccination, the archbishop of Zagreb Cardinal Bozanic advocates vaccination in public. And now let me read what is at, which is the conclusion of the permanent council of the Croatian Bishopial Conference at a meeting with the government and its concern for man and the desire to improve the society in which we live, we call on all citizens, all believers and people of good faith to contribute to the overcoming health and social crisis that we witness primarily by vaccination as a means of preventing and combating virus transmission, responsible behavior, care for the protection of their health, their loved ones, respecting the call that daily gives us the medical profession as well as all anti-Aemic measures that go towards the protection of human lives and health. In that spirit, it is also necessary to accept the obligation to test for those who have not been vaccinated or who have been over the purpose of the Covid certificate as means that reduce the risk of disease and transmission of the virus. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81218	Thank you. We are going to the 4th session of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, a respected colleague Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81219	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we discuss this law and tomorrow when we will vote on it in this high house, let's remember the black number of 11,383 deceased our fellow citizens of Covida-19, the number within which each of us certainly knows someone from our environment. Today's numbers of the sick and deceased, although more favourable than in recent weeks, are still high, and despite this reduction in the hospital, still do not feel much relief because at this point, as many as 2,412 people are hospitalized, of which 320 are on the respirator. From 15 April 2020 until 8 December 2021 Health institutions that provide data on hospitalized covid patients reported a total of 57,233 hospitalisations. With the huge financial loss caused by this epidemic to the economy, a significant resource of Croatian health has been devastated. Only health costs due to the Covida-19 pandemic on the day of 19 October 2021 amounted to 3 billion and 900 million kuna, of which a billion and 200 million kuna were spent on testing and 520 million kuna. If we add to this the cost of the pandemic to this day to assume that this amount exceeds more than 4 billion kunas. In order to compare the size of the funds involved, it could indicate that almost all the amendments submitted at yesterday's budget vote or the entire budget of the Ministry of Defence before the rebalancing. This legislative proposal defines public authorities in charge of implementing the measures provided for in this law and responsible persons in public authorities. In view of the current epidemiological situation, and with a view to making more effective prevention and prevention of disease spread more effective, a new security measure is proposed to prevent and prevent infectious diseases, and this is the safety measure of the mandatory premonition of evidence of testing, vaccination or disease disease disease in order to enter certain areas. The aim of the measure is to prevent further spread of disease. Such a measure shall have the support of all relevant and professional and professional organisations in the Republic of Croatia among which almost all political options are represented and without reservation. A new threat to the oxidation of a new coronavirus strain that has so far been shown... Delta, it also encouraged the World Health Organization to update basic epidemiological measures to slow down the spread of infection, including the recommendation to also refer to vaccination and booster doses, airing and keeping distance, wearing a mask in a closed area, which becomes imperative if we want to continue to function as a society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the public communication that politicians should also be responsible and based on scientific evidence because other than responsibility for their health and our families our public statements should be responsible for citizens who need to send messages based on facts because they are often confused with contradictory information, which primarily comes from people outside the health profession. For months in public space there has been a negative communication which is at the very least contradictory and banalises the danger of covid, resulting in further confusion of our citizens, thereby causing direct damage to Croatia in the fight with the pandemic. Citizens who have been vaccinated have often been labelled as vaxers, sheep, or obedient on such networks. These same citizens were not vaccinated because they were obedient, they were vaccinated because they believed in the profession, the epidemiologist, the doctor, and they showed high responsibility and a sense of commitment to the society in which they live. These same citizens are not on the streets or protests because of the blatant endangerment of their freedoms, as they are not health workers who are almost 2 years old. work sacrificedly in silence in the covid departments and fight for the lives of both sick and anti-vaxers and vaxers, and what does the ideal of freedom with vaccination anyway? Something's gone wrong here. There are hundreds of other reasons and dissatisfactions behind these requirements, but their address cannot be measures that protect the lives of citizens, even the most vulnerable ones. It is therefore a key personal responsibility. As liberals, we defend every Croatian citizen's right to choose whether to vaccinate or not, but also defend the ethical principles of personal freedom. Today, freedom is often understood exclusively negatively as freedom from all obligations towards other people and communities, but personal freedom as a positive freedom implies freedom to choose co-existence that is impossible if the freedoms of each individual are not at least limited to as little and as necessary for co-existence as possible. If we find negative freedom as the highest form and personal freedom and... He'll be conscious of the lowest form of imagination, and he'll lose his life. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is often evident in areas where conflict is being fought today, meaning limitless freedom. Therefore, we are not personally free if we do not have restrictions because they will always be as long as we live in the community with others but are personally free if we accept the restriction on the basis of personal responsibility for our own actions and consequences for ourselves, for our neighbors, the neighborhood, the city and the state. Being free means being responsible. It's a moral dimension of freedom and let's not degrade it and neglect it. Health care is a superseded topic and the public system is of vital interest to citizens and let's not make any of it a political battlefield and further confuse and this confused building. It's all really clear and simple, contagious disease, pandemic, a threat to the health of our fellow citizens, and it's only logical to listen to the profession. I'm a medical worker at age 25. I therefore recommend that everyone be vaccinated, and I would recommend that we no longer politicise these key issues for the health of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81220	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81221	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. When the covid pandemic started, and it's been two years. We proposed that decisions, strategic decisions related to the pandemic, be made by a two-thirds majority in HS. That hasn't happened until today. We think it would be much easier, simpler, more morale that all the key decisions, therefore regarding pandemic management, crisis management, we're not talking about micro management, we're talking about macro management, we're quoting the minister from an hour ago, we're bringing together to have legitimacy. Two years later, which is today we're changing a law called the Public Protection Act against infectious diseases. But it is not clear to us at the SDP Club in which way or how citizens think to protect themselves from infectious diseases because the covid of the confirmations against which we are not, but they are in a Croatian environment inconsistencies and illogical and have a slight entanglement in punishing political indifferences, which is not the goal or should not be the goal. I will repeat that the government has created chaos at the beginning of society precisely by its unconsistent decisions, its double criteria, poor vaccination campaign, untrustworthy management, so it has led to complete mistrust in the institutions of the state, mistrust in the system and what is more dangerous to trust in the science of a good gain, which is vaccination. In highly developed, let us call it highly developed so countries that have a certain level of social culture vaccination would be considered a personal contribution by individuals to community collective health and that is unquestionable, and unfortunately in countries like ours, which research shows in which corruption and mistrust in the system is ruled by mistrust in vaccination, therefore there is a very high level of correlation. And now that we know that we have just because of social networks that what happened 20 years ago, that we all knew that every village had its own idiot just because of network communications, these idiots got together into a wide platform, so that we like to joke that by the time Columbus and Internet times the equities didn't have room for action, today they have, and that's known, so this has been known since 2012, since the American presidential election of Hillary Clinton and Versos Donald Trump, what do the bots and what do the socket pope do, it's also known what the Ministry of Health does? Take care of that, for information services hires a flower shop from Gornja Stubica. And then we wonder how the vaccination campaign in Croatia failed and how... Please don't interrupt me, warn me, Mr. Vice President. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And we wonder where we are and where we actually have our correlation between social development and society in Croatia. Let's get back to the past. So when a covid certificate was announced, the SDP asked the government for clear, concrete and unambiguous measures, therefore large numbers, tragic numbers of newly infected and dead of the coronary virus. We asked that I remind you to take measures on time for kindergartens both for schools and for hospitals, but that citizens can organize their lives, go to work and some regular functioning in these circumstances, and what we get, what's new to normal. What that means is new normal, I don't understand. We asked a logical question why and in what way to expand the use of covid certificates, not to limit the movement and end freedoms as someone likes to present it rather than to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the virus, and after that, people actually have a better freedom of movement and to encourage people to vaccinate. Today, a lot of Parliamentarians and MPs have mentioned what is problematic and what we are all having problems with how the covid confirms value for a public institution like the library, and for a cafe that is in the same building, which has a lot of examples in Croatia, is not worth it, and then you can go back to the mail I mentioned, and then you have to ask the person who is okay behind you to pay your bill because the clerk doesn't want to pay you, etc. Therefore, they were not fully and targeted. And when we argue this day, for a month, then we argue after their introduction, we argue about them a month after that. To point out once again, it means, of course, that it is about limiting movement and that it is about discrimination, but that is why and for that reason and therefore such decisions must be made in the two-thirds majority of HS, and that conclusion will be proposed by the SDP Club, so when will the time come to vote this law. If the government had previously respected this proposal, surely political repercussions would not have been what they are today. Perhaps we wouldn't discuss at all the possible referendum that the Bridge is proposing and, in fact, what's most important is that there's no trust in institutions, and that's dangerous, it's very dangerous. Of course, why is it dangerous? It's dangerous because of society, so different right-wing populist parties and organisations are showing up to collect points, and voters are calling for freedom, but freedom is not a threat to human life. And it is precisely the responsibility of Andrej Plenkovic and Plenkovic's government to destroy the citizens' trust in the institutions, in the state. And with this law, we are afraid that this trend of mistrust in institutions, mistrust in the state continues. And then the part that might be political is why I thought and called in the morning that maybe the possible law of what lex Orsat Milenić turns out to be really that because of the potential, in fact, all the potential, real conflict between Andrej Plenkovic and Zoran Milanović, it turns out that this law will actually be passed because of one person, and that is under the quotes Orsat Milenić. For those who do not know Orsat Miljanic is the head of Zoran Milanovic's office. It's about the punishment. And is that the point? I don't think that's the point. So the point is that the prime minister shouldn't deal with political insinuators because it's not a fight against Covid that's what the sailor himself Popeye I am, showing muscles, stronger than him, that's not it. And therefore, through one more amendment, we will ask that the infringement provisions apply not only to public legal persons but also to legal persons because the current use of Covid certificate does not make any sense in the examples set out here today. And to end that, the mentality of people and vaccination. So if you're government, then you have to work actively on something that you think is good for the development of society. And if the subject of mandatory vaccination is put so on the political table in the parliaments of Austria and Germany, why are we afraid of it, why are we afraid of it. I don't say here and I don't advocate vaccination for all social groups, but for some, yes, and that's not up to me to decide. But you need to think about it by looking at the statistics and the damn.../incomprehensible... who gets the most hurt. Then maybe we should put a theme to see if that's the age limit, if that's 40, 45 years, it doesn't come out of the sleeve looking at a little bit and statistics as much as people who are unvaccinated in that so we say groups got killed in the overall percentage, and it can be on the table. And that's how you run the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81222	Following the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the debate will be shared by respected MPs Mrak Taritas and Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81223	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, this is not a debate on Covid's certificates. This is a debate about life and death. Some 15,000 people died in the Homeland War, although the exact figure is still difficult to determine. In less than 2 years since the start of the pandemic of the coronary virus, nearly 12,000 people have died and the fact is that work has not been well done. The health system was not well-coordinated and prepared especially at first. And the way the vaccination was done, I think we all agree, and that's what the numbers confirm, it's done badly. And now we're discussing laws and measures that try to cover bad work. Bad work of government, headquarters and HDZ. And that's the point. And that's the truth. And why am I talking about bad work? In Croatia, only 54% of the total population was vaccinated at least once with the vaccine. It is less than not just European but also global average. That's what mortality is about. We are 13 countries in the world by the mortality of Covid, and in recent weeks we are at the very top, second in line. At the top and per week average of millions of people, there are 5 in the Union and even better, of course, under the black quotes, we are dead by the number of people in the last week we are 2 in Europe. And also three of us are only the worst three in Europe, and then here we are. We're trying to make up for bad work by amending the law. And it's not like we didn't warn you. Tens and hundreds of times in the assembly were repeated not to do well, things that could or should be done were proposed, failures were noted, and no confusion was offered to help and even political support. But nothing has touched the ears of those who rule Croatia. They always knew everything, everything was perfect, balanced, responsible and effective. And so we, balanced, responsible and effective, became the country with the least vaccinated and most dead. And now that we're in front of the wall, here we are again with the amendments to the law, so we're legalizing something that's already being implemented. Obligatory certificates of vaccination, disease or testing. Does that mean it wasn't even legal so far? In that debate, maybe we shouldn't even go in there. It determines which institutions are covered by this, who is responsible for implementing the law, sanitary inspectors receive their new task and are ultimately prescribed for the responsible if the law is not implemented. But let's ask ourselves, who are we going to charge the penalty for having only 50% vaccinated in the country, the state? Who, in that case, is the responsible person, prime minister, health minister? Who are we going to charge for the punishment for having so many dead? Maybe I'd better not throw that guilt at any individual but that's a bad one, that's a bad one. And it's not that we didn't try, it's not that we didn't warn, it's not that we didn't propose, but all we've always gotten were to boast the answers that the opposition is senseless, that it did nothing as if it were on the opposition to do the job of the government. And that HDZ won the election, so I guess that means that everything it says and does is surrounded by gold and rubies. Well, here are your colleagues and colleagues, my dear Prime Minister and Minister, and here are your number of vaccinated, the number of patients and the number of deaths. So there's no confusion many times I've talked about this phone booth, and obviously I'm going to talk a lot more times. I'm a big supporter of vaccination, I keep inviting people to be vaccinated. I think it's completely unreasonable that such a small number of people have decided to vaccinate. Covid is a dying disease, and I don't need that trust in the government or any state institution to know that I have to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81224	The chairman, the MPs and the MPs. Citizens in this pandemic are obviously between hammers and anvils. Cekic is HDZ's headquarters's behaviour, and it is said that politicians who are in dissatisfaction and mistrust in the work of headquarters support divisions and conflicts in order to profit politically, not in order to achieve some general for society and the state for citizens, an important goal. Here there are opposing views of two different groups of citizens, but at the same time the opposing views of two different groups of politicians and political parties who, because of their selfishness and irresponsibility, are not able to resolve this fundamental social conflict. So, we coloquially and very uglyly bring these groups of citizens down to vaxers and anti-vaxers, but both groups have something in common, which is that their behavior is dominantly motivated by fear. So one part of the citizens is afraid of the crown, afraid of the serious consequences of the infection itself, afraid of death, and the group of citizens legitimately expects to protect their constitutional right to life, to protect their health and to preserve the entire system. The other part of the citizen is afraid of the vaccine, afraid of the effects of the vaccine, or simply has no confidence in their effectiveness and purpose, so in the covid certificates he sees an indirect coercion to vaccination and that is, in fact, the essence. Both sides in my opinion are in a certain way and to a certain extent right, which side is right a little bit more or a little less, which I think defines the numbers, the numbers infected at the daily level, the numbers hospitalized with the severe consequences, the numbers of the dead. Also which group is to a lesser or greater extent rightly defined by our fundamental social values. So, if we are a society where we have a sense of solidarity with each other, whether we recognize the interests and priorities of the community or if we are focused solely on ourselves, everyone has the right to think about themselves. I hope we'll still realize that we should be a society where the collective protects the weakest, most sensitive. In this case it is those whose lives are threatened, so the state as a system should protect those with the weakest immunity, not those with the strongest. So the covid certificates are not the invention of the Republic of Croatia. It is something Croatia applies by copying other countries. So I believe that, at some point, they'll come from the same countries and go and cause them to be abolished, and that's how the Republic of Croatia will go. In my opinion, the covid certificates are not controversial, but it is a disputed way of introducing themselves, it is a controversial work and composition of the headquarters, a disputed full pandemic management by the HDZ government. This debate should have been an opportunity to correct a number of wrong decisions that have been made so far, as well as an opportunity to calm tensions. Many countries have made their own mistakes in finding the best epidemiological solutions, but our mistake is HDZ, a government that can benefit from a pandemic so that it can win several times. Since the beginning of the pandemic, Andrej Plenkovic and the headquarters have privatised the management of this crisis even though the opposition has shown a willingness to comply with constitutional provisions in a constructive dialogue that prescribes who and how it decides in a state of emergency, but HDZ does not want it. The two-thirds majority would give greater legitimacy to the measures and measures that are strongly affecting fundamental human rights. HDZ doesn't want that, and that puts us all in a position to be what we want to be. Minister, there is no profession at headquarters, if there has been a profession, no one has believed for a long time, and we will not be more successful with repression in what should be the main goal. In the fight against the pandemic, we can be more successful if we believe that the measures taken protect the lives, the health system, the economy and our state finances, not by threatening the dragons' penalties. What this law should introduce is the obligation to disband the existing and forming of a new headquarters whose composition would be chosen through a two-thirds majority. This law must also introduce criteria for the introduction or abolition of any epidemiological measures, as well as a system of ex post checks. If the way political parties on the right of the political spectrum try to profit from the sense of uncertainty and fear among citizens, and we criticise it as a populism, as irresponsible behavior without the right content, then this way that HDZ denies all justified criticism and rejects all constructive proposals, we must condemn it as a corrupt politicization of the worst kind of respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81225	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, which will be shared by respected representatives Rasudiæ and Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81226	Even a year and eight months ago, when all this started when I wasn't in political life, I said that the people who run this process once this process is over and when it's drawn up and the accounts are down, and it's over, it's over, it's either being rewarded by the highest state honors or it's going to end up in prison. There's nothing in between. In the most difficult situations such as wars, for example, it's always the case. Already at the beginning in Croatia the story was misrun. We mention the number of deaths, we're one side responsible for that number of deaths or due maybe why that number of deaths isn't even bigger. It's HDZ, the government's president is Plenkovic and the headquarters. They took from the beginning all the ends into their own hands, bypassed the assembly, didn't even try to look for a broader consensus and the exclusive responsibility was on them from the beginning to the day today, and apparently this will continue. They insulted the profession at the very beginning, instead of leading the process by the Minister of Health as is the case in other European countries and acting under the law that we are supplementing today, the Civil Protection Act is headed by an expert on ONO and DSZ, a global defence and social self-defense. So much for respecting their profession. And today we could also hear what is the professional composition of the crisis management headquarters. Most graduates are 5.4 economists, 2 criminals, 2 building engineers, 2 traffic engineers, and there are politologists and electric engineers, seismologists, physicists, agronomists and only 2 doctors of medicine. We also heard that there is more and absolutely and relatively a doctor of medicine in HS than in the headquarters. So much for expertise. This bill has 2824 pages, I haven't seen more, and only 15 of yours, everything else is from consultation with the interested public, 2749 comments, and only a week of counseling has been offered to the public. Why? Because it was an emergency procedure to bypass the citizens' opinion. So isn't this strong reaction of people 2749 comments in just 7 days enough signal to break over their knees something that should be better discussed and reach the broadest consensus possible than democracy is played out. All of this is against the law we heard 20 times today, first the measure was imposed, was neither called but other measures, and this one is stricter, so that later the posteriors would pass the law. So how is it that we live in an orderly democratic, parliamentary democracy or in the fear of Andrej Plenkovic, who imposes something, then it will be put through, through the parliament? In the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law, it is not necessary to provide for additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean? There is no item in the budget provided for the cost of testing. From this it can be read that after New Year's Eve, we are waiting to be abolished for free testing. Why don't you say so, why don't you draw a conclusion but cook us a little bit like frogs? In early autumn 2021, representatives of the government spoke only a few months ago and reiterated as a mantra that the introduction of a covid certificate with the exception of the health system and social care system is not being considered. Here's a quote and a date, Andrej Plenkovic, in his statement to the media on the issue of the introduction of a covid certificate, states the following, quote: Covid certificates will be introduced for hospitals and social care systems. So far, we are not thinking about introducing mandatory covid certificates into other sectors. It's a finished quote. When the devil sees what happens shortly after that. We heard statements and Ursula von der Leyen about mandatory vaccination. Says Andrej Plenkovic won't be mandatory vaccination, so here he said there won't be a covid certificate either, so here's the next mandatory vaccination. What's next? Will it be mandatory for children to be vaccinated as a condition that they attend school even though the mortality or the serious illness of children is absolutely negligible, even though the vaccinated and unvaccinated carry the virus? We have heard a lot about the meaning of the covid certificate, their arbitration and discrimination of citizens, and the same way that a civil servant who has been paid for testing can benefit without any extra cost from all public institutions, an ordinary man cannot. Is that discrimination, can it pass in a constitutional court? Well, a pensioner can go to a gambling center, he can go to a shopping mall, but he can't go to a library, that's where he'll get infected or in the post office. What's the point of 30 students not need a covid certificate, and one lecturer needs, which they don't carry, it transmits? We've heard the charges of political profit. Our goal is justice, truth and the interest of the citizens, and if we're going to profit so much better because of the bad policy of the rulings, but it's a side effect of our actions. We've heard these stories you support a two-thirds decision in the assembly, so support the referendum. Don't be a coward and stick to the foot of Andrej Plenkovic and the headquarters and you from the left and with the pseudo center. Don't push us into anti-vaxers into those that cause destruction. We want to give this referendum a solid and legitimate basis on which we will fight the pandemic more effectively together and restore citizens' confidence in institutions. This is the last attempt to save society this referendum, the last attempt to build up frustration articulate through the institutions of the system of constitution and laws. If this doesn't go through, it's just street and extremists, and we don't want any part of it. That and your soul that you've been keeping silent, waiting here, you agree with all the content, but you wouldn't support a referendum from your own I don't know ideological prejudices or what you didn't think of first. Well, come on, your door's open. Listen to what the president is saying today. If anyone's profited from all this, it's HDZ. The electoral slogan was "Safe Croatia", after the first victory in high places they placed members of the headquarters. Finally, after Christmas, obviously if we don't put moles on the road we can expect a wider use of covid confirmation, then mandatory vaccination, and very possible subsequent and mandatory vaccination of children as a condition of attending school. It's up to us to go ahead with the referendum. Join, volunteer and sign, we urge all political parties to join together to put an end to this and give a firm and repeated legal and legitimate institutional framework for a common and more efficient fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81227	The citizens and the people who are watching this, who are watching and following me, I said in the replica that the minister is nice to me, clapping on his children, writing to him and Mr. Capaku letters until the moment when Mr. Assembly MP Hrebak doctor recommended isolation, I said, the president of HSLS coalition partner, Mr. Capak, said that he could come regardless of the parliament, regardless of what recommended self-insulation. Missed the handle, that's not responsible. Minister, it is not responsible to behave on Peljesac after half the night at the vampire ball when you call for not to come to my Sinj, and 13 million people are in Croatia. And you're throwing a Stigma, banning the procession of the Great Lady, the Wonder Lady of Sin. In Hvar, I'm glad you didn't do it when it was a much harder situation. You're a fraud, a fraud for a number of reasons, for a number of reasons. For what? You don't have the same criteria. You beat the crown before the election. On the night of the choir, the citizens will remember, return the video, on election night you sing to each other hundreds of you, and I, as mayor, would have to watch covid confirmations of who was vaccinated, who not and nod heads, but also vaccinated transfers. In my city administration, the person who was vaccinated brought the virus and the worst had consequences. So you have a principled, we talk testing, testing, doctors tell you in healthcare institutions testing and vaccinated and unvaccinated meals are mainly transmitted among immunocompromised people, sicker people in health institutions are transferring the virus, but you care about safe Croatia. You win, you catch the crown, vote for us. How much was in the crown of a kilo? How many ministers were there? In all the cities of the Republic of Croatia for the days of Alka and the Great Lady can be held, so politics was to be, that tourism is open because we are the poor country only not in Sinj, only not in Sinj. Even on Facebook, they announced that Sinj was responsible for New Zealand almost for the lockdown, but you weren't but you were close. You're irresponsible, and you've led to this situation, and the COvid certificates are pointless. Test where immunocompromised started [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81228	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Milorad Ppovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81229	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honorable fellow MPs and MPs. The SDSS advocates' club considers this amendment to the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases extremely important in the extremely dangerous circumstances in which our country, its citizens and the whole world are faced with one, one dangerous virus for which a record period of time has found adequate vaccines, but at the same time not yet effective enough for full control in view of vitality, the ability to mutate and, of course, the fact that there are resistances in the population due to, according to public health procedures and treatment. That's why the Club of Representatives of the SDSS wants to remind this high home and the public in two sentences of what we are facing now as a country at the beginning of the 21st century people have been facing for centuries. At least the 7th century there is quarantine and experience of quarantine and it was not easy at any time, but the difference between that time and these times and today is the degree of enlightenment and availability of information, the degree of learning and development and science and the possibility of treatment and those times, when not only quarantine, when not only isolating, when not only elementary medical measures, and the basic medical measures consisted of being at the beginning of the 19th century, and in the good part of the whole 19th century diseases such as diphtheria, typhoid, charlah, cholera, tuberculosis treated with which, calming and hydration and isolation. Only for the great goddesses did we have some kind of vaccine. For a polyo, a polyo virus that we almost no longer speak of today, and which we almost no longer meet in our country today, we meet it in less developed countries where children suffer and what are severe life consequences and severe disability. Why? Because there's been a vaccine since the 50th century, and that vaccine has made it possible for more natural growth, healthier birth and healthier born children, and that's what we're used to. But parents who in the 19th century in Italy in certain cities had to experience a crandane when the children were separated from their parents and placed in quarantine because of the fear of spreading it, the disease. We don't have to do it anymore today, so we won't have to do it even when it comes to this virus, we just need to have a little more patience, a little more solidarity with each other and a little more guidance on what people in Great Britain were doing when they faced different forms of difficult public health challenges. Among them is the great British philosopher John Stuart Mill, founder of the liberal idea of freedom, not only of human rights but of the civil liberties that some of our colleagues here are talking about today. But as one of the liberals here said in his own way, he said what he was holding on to and what people who created public health policies and public health measures stuck to. And I'll sum it up. You can wave all you want and wherever you want, but the border is my nose. So you can want the virus and have it if you want it, but keep it to yourself, don't spread it any further. If you spread it further, your freedom is the source of a potential health hazard that can have a fatal effect, and no one has the right to such freedom. Over 50, 60 and 70 dead a day doesn't give anyone the right to do that. The abuse of human and civil rights by those who call for it here and from this pay phone is a serious problem for our society and for the world. They say my body, my choice. Yes, when it comes to vaccination, and when it comes to the right to abortion and to the free birth of a child, then they tell your body my choice. They're the same. So, "Hod for Life" yes, "Hod for Life" that in places where a particular ideology is represented, and protection of life today is not because my civil liberties are more important, so take them, but not to my harm, not to the harm of those who are weakest, not to the harm of general health. So, as far as this is concerned, someone has already used it here, but I'm going to repeat to my colleague, Peovic, who's just getting in, which we're going to let because someone thinks it's civil liberties because he has money that he can buy alcohol and has a car that he can drive, that he can then get drunk in the car or drunk in the car because it's his freedom based on ownership and money and a sense of understanding freedom. So try, and you will see what you will encounter or whoever has an army and a dog and dogs. That too, he does not understand that this army is and that these dogs are worse for symbolic reasons of power, not for operational reasons of power. Not to suppress legality, but to mark his or her status. Everything is upside down and he is today calling for human rights and calling for MPs, especially one political option that, by the way, made it possible for him to be where he is. So it's all wrong with some people, but it has to be exposed. Human rights and civil rights fighters must represent universal values, and not today can freedom, and tomorrow cannot freedom, it does not work. So, the question is these changes, we discussed this on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and we supported this, as the SDSS Representatives' Club will support this, but we need to find out whether the law or other acts on you have Mr. Ministers both at headquarters and the government to evaluate if it's better by law then we suggest that while we're still reading this law to do so by law. What about the people who won't have the money to test? What about the people they won't be, who can't be vaccinated and depend on testing because their medical condition won't allow them to receive the vaccine of this species? I ask you to consider, under difficult social status, testing and being treated as a free thing and allowing people to have the right access to it. Thank you. If you respect this SDSS Representatives' Club will support this, these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81230	Here we go on with the agenda. The next debate is on behalf of Social Democrats MP Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81231	Dear Vice President, at the beginning of this debate, it may be time to remember everything that has happened since the virus arrived in Croatia. The first formed headquarters as a political body and an extended arm was actually the HDZ government whose work led, cheered and dressed two HDZ politicians, Davor Bozinović and Willi Beroš, occasionally assisted, assisted and admired... Like Capak or Alemka Markotic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, Plenkovic actually decided to hide behind the headquarters in principle if it was good I was responsible, if it were bad they were guilty and responsible. He's pulling moves from the shadows that de facto from everything he sees is doing today. The very beginning of the operation of the headquarters was at the edge of the law and it remained so until today. It's just that where does a parasite get the right to decide on the health and freedom of the citizens without it being defined anywhere in the law or in the constitution? That's why I'm early 2020. suggested that due to the pandemic, the Assembly activates the Article. 17th Croatian Constitution and two-thirds majority declare the state of emergency so that all decisions on restricting the freedom of our citizens are in accordance with the constitution, this is not the case. But, of course, government manipulators wanted to take full authority and thus transfer all powers to the headquarters that he actually used the pandemic for pre-election purposes and for political purposes before the parliamentary elections because how else to interpret the initiative to declare Sunday on an unworkable day that you could read in one day’s daily newspaper experienced its fiasco, so it gave up. So they also played with the feelings of the voters, if you will with the feelings of the believers, but they also played with the church. That's how they work today. And the Prime Minister on 26 May 2020. In Split, it was slantingly stated that the government had won the crown. From today's perspective when we are already in the 4th wave after a huge number of infected and dead, after 11 thousand dead in Croatia, it is clear that this statement was exclusively for pre-election purposes and such is unfortunately the government's struggle with the crown in Croatia, exclusively politically inexperienced and from day one to the last. Not to say that this headquarters was at first making illogical decisions that were at least in conflict with common sense like those shopping centers open, cafes and restaurants closed. In the beginning of the pandemic, we warned that there was absolutely no strategy to fight the virus, we proposed a whole series of measures, anti-pandemic laws, measures to prevent the spread of the disease, to help entrepreneurs, pensioners, workers, and especially health professionals on the first line of defence against the virus. In June I also warned that, and what proved to be true, the pandemics are night clubs, but also schools, especially high school because high school students travel by public transport and live with parents, as well as with grandparents. I also warned about the projections of the IHME Institute, which forecasted that by autumn 2020 there would be over 3,000 patients a day. All of this has been ignored by the headquarters, and this has been best witnessed by the dramatic cries of health care professionals from our hospitals who, in turn, have been reduced by the government's allocations this year in the health ministry budget by several billion kunas. So, what's the problem? Before the arrival of the vaccination in Croatia, Croatia was the number of deaths in Europe prior to the arrival of the vaccine. So much for headquarters and so much for taking their measures. People who would likely survive due to adequate assistance within the hospital system in Germany, Italy, Slovakia and the Czech Republic unfortunately died in Croatia. So far, over 11,000 people have died in Croatia, more people than victims of the Homeland War, and billions have been taken from the health system. It was funny for some when I talked about it, but today is certainly not funny, at least not for those 11 thousand families who lost their loved ones. And why has vaccination in Croatia experienced fiasco, and why is Croatia one of the worst countries in the matter of vaccination? Because citizens simply lost confidence in both headquarters and government. In January when the vaccine came to Croatia, it was not in sufficient quantities despite all the relationships that the rulings want and like to praise in Brussels. Afterwards, the “Break up” system collapsed, so the online platform fell before it was raised, and it was paid fatly. So we're testifying about another one, and I'm going to dare to say something about a corruption affair that marked the vaccination system. After that, the chieftains were vaccinated first, not the most endangered citizens, so they were vaccinated with a connection, and then some headquarters were like Mrs. The coat of arms said they didn't need masks in Croatia, so they wouldn't take them off today. It's recent, too. Markotic said that the vaccine was tested on poor children from Africa, which certainly contributed to the tendency for people to rush into vaccination, but the headquarters of what is most important and most tragically politicised their work and used their presses exclusively for propaganda. That's also the fact that he paid a great deal of money for Pear services, which is a disaster, at the expense of the citizens and at the expense of the crisis, at the expense of the pandemic, if you will at the expense of the dead. At first, there was complete inconsistency in the fight against this pandemic and the decisions the headquarters made were at least discriminatory. Why in a whole series of European countries is the split-up bigger? So because citizens in those countries trusted their governments for whom they acted responsibly, unlike ours who initially acted exclusively as political deputies of the Prime Minister. With today's bill of law, by sending this law into the procedure, the government has de facto admitted that things did not work out properly, that it did not define in time the obligation to enter the state institutions and now through this law it wants to iron out what it did in the footsteps, and so far it has made many mistakes. In this way, the government has not known how many times it has bypassed HS, humiliated and marginalized this institution, and in fact, as always, it is trying to make a puppet out of HS that should exclusively vote for those decisions that come from the government and turn it into a crane hand for the ruling one. It is not a problem whether there should be some control, so of course there should be control at the entrance to the institution, the problem is in hypocrisy, double criteria and decision-making. Well said here by Milorad Pupovci who spoke before me. So, as we advocate the freedom of a woman to decide on her own body, as we advocate the constitution of the defined freedom of every individual and citizen, so we defend the right of every citizen to choose whether to vaccinate or not. We at the Social Democrats Club support vaccination, but we believe and know that there is one large part of people who do not want to be vaccinated because they do not want to agree to decisions that come precisely from the ruling ones in the way they impose them, on repression and force, and because they have lost confidence in the system, they have lost confidence in the state, they have lost trust in the headquarters, they have lost confidence in the government. Scientific knowledge also speaks of the virus being able to transmit both a vaccinated and unvaccinated person and one who is over a covid. So if we really want to protect the most vulnerable, and these are the people who are staying in hospitals, in retirement homes, so these are the weakest ones, then we have to introduce a mandatory test obligation on all these checkpoints and so it's equal for everyone. And if we look at who solved it, it's solved by some European countries that simply did it so that the testing is available to the family doctor to make these tests quick, to be available on site, to be available in pharmacies and to be checked every 48 hours. It's the only way to fight the virus, it's the most effective way to fight the virus because if the vaccinated person or the unvaccinated person comes and has the virus and transmits the virus, that virus will enter the building no matter what someone has a covid certificate or no covid certificate, that's what this is about. Covid's confirmation doesn't mean that the person has no covid and that's the basic oxymoron of this whole story. So we need to protect the most vulnerable, the hospitals, the hospitals, the relief and care facilities, the retirement homes, and we can only do this by introducing mandatory testing. So, if you're introducing the certificates that you've subsequently sent to the assembly you've admitted to being illegal at the moment, at least don't discriminate against people. With all the divisions in Croatia, we really don't need to divide into those who are vaccinated and those who are unvaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81232	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81233	Good afternoon, everyone. Certainly the responsibility for this situation we are in right now is entirely on HDZ, but God didn't make much of a contribution to me. Here are some who are now leaving the assembly that belongs to the nominal left we hear that both vaccinated and unvaccinated can transmit the virus. Total debilization, how many times do we have to repeat that the vaccines carry the virus less, and I will really invite my colleague Bernardić to form a club that advocates, means that in an alcoholic state people can drive because those who are not alcoholized can also cause the same accident here and there. Here, I think it's at the level of that, so here's the liberal, left-wing opposition really does us harm. There's been all sorts of nonsense here, so it's perfectly legitimate to look for what I've been looking for. Zekanovic says let everyone who puts the vaccines in the fus note be shown to die on the respirator. So those who deny the crown should be manifested. A colleague, Zekanovic, needs to be shown. So those who die on the respirator say it's, it's a fus note. So 13,455 people died of the crown. A colleague of Zekanovic's is being held here for discussion and how to prevent it. A bunch of contradictions, a bunch of vague communications coming from the right parties, but we've seen neither Social Democrats lack it. So I'm expecting it to be obvious, say, a colleague of Steven Bartultz who says there are nothing less than a covid camp, so he can enlighten us a little bit about what he's talking about, about covid camps. In every other situation, Steven Bartulica says that we should compare ourselves with Germany and Austria, but only in covid says, so we don't have to compare ourselves with them, so here I welcome that courage of my colleagues Bartulica, but in every long situation spits in Croatia and says so in Croatia alone, somewhere else in civilized countries, we need to look up to them, we need to be like those Western countries. Furthermore, talks about the pharmaceutical industry, those who advocate vaccination say they should talk transparently about the contracts they have with the pharmaceutical industry, but counterpart Bartulica, if he were invited to have these pharmaceutical industries publish patents and then Africa not be infected with the crown as it is now, he would advocate private companies' right to have huge multimillion-dollar profits. I say Bartulica says even that there are Covid camps. What is important to say for conspiracy theories are very popular and very successful only because of one thing. Because conspiracy theories always contain but grains of truth. That the problem is also the pharmaceutical industry, that the problem is also Bill Gates, but pharmaceuticals don't need to sow the virus around the planet and infect people, right? It's quite enough that it has a very large domination and that there's a monopoly on pharmaceutical industries. Those who really want to fight the pharmaceutical industries should be for the construction of an immune, immunological institution, we haven't heard from those who are against the pharmaceutical industry that they are for the Immunological Institute and to oppose means the blackmail of the drugs that blackmailed us in the world's greatest pandemic since World War I, not by the supply of drugs and medical equipment. Immunobiological medicines were produced by the Immunological Institute, anti-snap antibodies, bacterial or viral vaccines, very high-quality blood products, and we're just one estimate out of '15. Until '19. For suspected imports of drugs paid more than 1.7 billion kuna, and a third of that for immunobiological medicines and vaccines that were more expensive produced by the Immunological Institute. Well, speaking of vague information, Dario Zurovec of Focus is calling for Sweden. Sweden had a huge mortality in the first wave, but of course Zurovci is not a problem, he says Minister Beroshu that the Minister of Health, Minister of Health, and Minister Beroš was very popular in the first wave when it wasn't dead, is popular those who produce large quantities of deaths, and I must all warn that 80% of the fissure in Sweden, with us a little more than 52% if I'm right. For example, Ireland is comparable to us but there are 85% vaccinated 5.800 dead and Croatia 52% vaccinated and 11445 dead. So 5,800 in Ireland versus our 11,445 dead. I think it's absolutely necessary to call HDZ, but there's not too much opposition here. There's no opposition because I'm afraid that in this calculation, how we're going to crush another political point and even the Social Democrats don't get any vague and anti-vaxer messages. It is very popular to earn a political point on the crown, and those who communicate progressively and rationally will not get those points. The same question arises why, in post-socialist countries, this denial of the crown falls into fertile soil and it is really important to warn some of the HDZ and HDZ things there is the greatest responsibility. So in all post-socialist countries, the anti-Vaxer movement is the strongest, the root denial is the strongest, because it really happened, and that sociologists generally agree, to total devastation of public services, health care, education, so HDZ gets one reflection in the mirror of the debilization it has been carrying out for decades. It's simply the consequence of what you've sown now you reap. The HDZ is therefore fully responsible and should end with this because by the number of deaths per 100,000 people in the world, because for over a month more than 50 people have been dead daily since November, which has killed 11445 people to this day, which at the annual level is 13% higher than the five-year average for the same period. 13% more people die compared to the precoron period. 12% died more people in October, that's 510 people who didn't have to die. This is a balance, which means the result of HDZ's policy because we have the most liberal measures for months to do so is HDZ is responsible and HDZ has no opposition in this assembly as far as it is concerned, it has only the pressure to carry out these liberal measures even stronger after the first wave which was the only wave to which it reacted correctly. Entrepreneurial groups have put pressure on them, they're pressing them to this day. It is not a problem that these entrepreneurial groups have received millions of support, and at the same time they have fired workers, but these groups are still putting pressure on them today, and it is really cynical that MOST and other non-oliberal political parties are now defending people in the public sector who generally call them arrests who work for too many unnecessary jobs and are now defending them and defending their right not to split themselves, but tomorrow this same MOST will demand that these people be fired because they are too many people in health care, too many people in education, arrests that should simply be aware of the cheap workforce that HDZ is doing, and that is their goal. So there's no opposition here, there's no opposition and that's what to say. I can agree with some remarks on the democratic, democratic framework for the adoption of these measures, but I have 3 problems with it. One is that I am not sure that this opposition will, if it is given the opportunity to vote rationally, and it should be voted in view of what the profession says, and the profession said that Covid's certificates should be introduced both in the public and in the private sectors, that the opposition will really vote rationally, I hear from Bernardic that both vaccinated and unvaccinated can pass on to the crown and alcoholised can drive why not because those who are sober are gauze people. Secondly, I must admit that at this point, I wouldn't exactly want to give legitimacy to the HDZ government because it has made so many mistakes that we are now in such a position to be told by healthcare professionals that the mandatory vaccination will no longer save us. And the third legal framework is just a legitimate framework, and you need to listen to the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81234	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81235	Thank you. Dear Ministers and colleagues and colleagues. Today I will not actually talk about the pandemic and the pandemic measures as such because we, as a colleague, agree that in fact about the measures themselves and the health consequences of the covid crisis should listen to what healthcare professionals and workers say. And we've been in that position the whole time, we've been supporting vaccination all along, and we've hired ourselves to ensure as much availability of vaccination as possible, the more availability of accurate information. However, what I think should have been said much more here because it is also the role of Parliament, which is to talk about the constitutional principle of rule of law. And I'll say right away at the beginning of Minister Beroš, that no matter what you're a political entity because you're a minister, we've often listened to you here as an expert. I think it would be very important for you to listen to the MPs about their concerns about the role of Parliament in this crisis. So in constitutional democracies, and we are constitutional democracy in times of any crisis, and in particular public health crises, certain fundamental values of rule of law should be the heart of parliamentary debate. So the key requirement of the rule of law is to maintain what we call balance and principle, brakes and balance between the executive authority, the legislative authority and the judicial authority. This key requirement also requires that there be parliamentary control over those measures that restrict fundamental human rights and that there is control over the majority so that the majority would not take those measures that come out of the procedure regularly, enter the area of emergency and emergency because otherwise they would not bring them, that we are in a regular state, and that they do so without that principle in place in our Constitution and all the constitutions of parliamentary democracies, which is the principle of brakes and balance. So the management of this pandemic has resulted in an alarming level of actually some amalgams of merger and three branches of government that have kept under your influence and your demand, they have kept so-called. the majority regime, and that's who has the majority of decisions at that point, and even what the Constitution didn't give him to decide. Therefore, the assessment of Croatia's response to the pandemic from the perspective of the rule of law, especially of this brake and balance, depends largely on this preliminary issue of how we qualify the pandemic and whether the pandemic is a natural disaster, not always, but when it causes such consequences described in Article. 17. Whether or not we are talking about the natural disaster of art. 17. The Constitution. So the prevailing expert view is that because of its natural causes and scale and consequences, the covid panedemia is qualified as a natural disaster. However, you have decided not to resort to this constitutional emergency regime but to act in the existing legal framework on civil protection and prevention of infectious diseases, in fact, you have changed it in a way where we have delegated certain powers that parliament has exclusively on the government but on the government's operational body of headquarters which is allegedly an expert body, and we know that the body in which certain political functions are represented, which in itself is not disputed. What is disputed is whether decisions by such bodies, so the executive authorities can limit fundamental human rights to their decisions and when they can do so by art. So prove proportionality, prove proportionality, and when I can't prove it. And the fundamental question is whether in constitutional parliamentary democracies at all we can delegate restrictions on human rights to any executive body that has no legitimacy and which actually does not draw legitimacy from the people in the way it draws it, the legislative body executive authority, and especially then judicial? So when we talk about the Constitution itself, the Constitution has given us a really fantastic option, unlike many other constitutions of parliamentary democracies, it has given the option that when it comes to extraordinary situations, and the Assembly can meet, the Assembly can meet to take the lead at that time. And why did the constitutionmaker do that? To ensure that, while the Assembly can meet, there is this principle of checking or brake and balance between the executive and legislative authorities. So, under Art. 17. The Parliament enjoys very broad discretion in limiting constitutional rights, very broadly because it requires lower criteria than in art. 16. Code. 16. by which you claim to act when you make decisions and when we make laws here we have to prove that we have applied the measure that is the least possible measure to achieve a legitimate goal, this requires a criterion of proportionality. He asks that the decision is based on law, on law, so that it does not have to be a sublegal act if it has the quality of the law, clarity, clarity, predictability and availability. The decision, I have to say many, but also these on covid certificates did not have, had no such quality, clarity and predictability in many parts of its implementation, which was, of course, shown to the institutions who did not actually know how to implement it and how to ensure control of that implementation, so it did not have those elements. But why didn't she have these elements, and why can't we claim that the measures we bring in these kind of natures like the covid confirm that they are proportionate? Because we have strangers because we are in a situation that is unknown, we are in a situation that is new and we apply the measures that we see around someone else applying, so if it works, it works. Or art. 16 that doesn't give, Art. 16. asks you to guarantee that when you are already limiting the right to do so in a way that you will achieve a legitimate goal, and we could not guarantee by this measure fully what is natural and understandable. But then when we can't guarantee it, we'll go to art. The 17th that seeks this lower criterion of suitability is not proportionate, appropriateness, but because it requires a lower criterion to seek something called constitutional social consensus, it requires a two-thirds majority because we say that there are situations where we have to limit human rights more seriously in order to achieve a legitimate goal, but that it is only for a broad political consensus and not only a broad political consensus but where there is a situation where not the ordinary majority decides on it, that how exactly so that this convergence between the executive authority and parliament does not occur because the executive power is the one that has a majority in parliament but needs that additional majority, this additional consent in order to legitimise such decisions. And that's the principle of brakes and balance that we haven't achieved, and that's how we violate the constitutional principle of rule of law and we have a chance to correct it again, we have the opportunity to set a criterion for all future situations because imagine yourself in future situations of excellence. Are we going to allow basic human rights to be restricted to the ordinary majority in the Assembly or by the decision of a technical or operational body? Well, we can't let that happen if we're constitutional parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81236	Following individual debates, the first respected representative is Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81237	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that on 4.11.2021 five major medical organisations proposed and requested the urgent introduction of strict measures, so the Croatian Medical Assembly, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Medical Union, HUBOL and KOHAM. I will repeat the introduction of mandatory covid certificates for all employers of public, state private, introduction of mandatory covid certificates for entry into closed public spaces, so public administration, public companies, shopping centres, cinemas, theatres, restaurants, cafes, restrictions on the number of persons at all closed premises to 50 with mandatory covid certificates, temporarily for the next two weeks, extension of on-line teaching for students of classes, secondary schools, students in colleges, temporarily for the next two weeks continuing class teaching according to model A, the gradual delay of elective programs in the hospital, the organisation of vaccination checkpoints in all major cities of work for seven days 12 hours. So six measures aimed at introducing them temporarily, so not forever limit someone's right to freedom, but all with the goal of ending this pandemic as soon as possible. I've already said several times that we're on the same side as the waist and as a science with one goal, the sooner we finish this pandemic, and we're constantly offering you help and solutions, but you didn't accept all this together as the profession tells you, you didn't offer cost-benefit analysis all the time I'm talking about it. So the justification is that it tries to balance itself because of the economic situation, but we continue to extend the pandemic. Experiences from other countries have shown that they have previously introduced measures and have fewer patients and died. Why are we always late? Here we talked a little bit in the towers, so as it would be less chargeable of VAT from malls, however, the cost of treatment would certainly be even lower. Why don't you put it on paper, why don't we all see it together and the public? When I asked Minister Beroche that here is the expected new strain there, it will probably need to introduce stricter measures whether this law covers the punishment of all those responsible because it may be necessary both in restaurants and in cafes, the covid malls, are all addresses clearly defined, what did you tell me? So, Art. Paragraph 2(a) of Article 47(2) may be subsequently added to all addressees by decision of the Staff. That is technically clear, however, that is exactly the problem we are constantly pointing to. We're going to make additions here, and then the headquarters can make important decisions beyond Parliament. That's why we keep telling you well-intentioned we have a crisis situation in terms of this pandemic that takes too long. We are therefore looking for a two-thirds majority, not because we are intimate with you, but because you listen and respect everything we propose, we would have greater power and full legitimacy for these decisions you make, there would be not so many dissatisfied citizens and many of our representatives, and in the extreme line or signing a referendum. How can you be sure what the Constitutional Court will say? Personally, and we as a club have no problem at all, nor the benefits of testing, the benefits of a covid certificate. I asked for more mass testing of all employees in all institutions and companies where people actually stay longer or longer, where it is possible for the virus to be transmitted larger. Furthermore, since this decision is made on 15 November 2021. has entered into force, therefore, that mandatory covid certificates are a prerequisite for performing business for civil servants and subsistence, public services, etc. that I am not reading everything now, of course the question has been raised whether the application of these certain epidemiological measures or the condition of the achievement of certain rights of possession of covid certificates really limits human rights, whether part of the citizens is discriminated, whether they can come to their work etc. So, with the covid certificate, it's very clear, and we'll all agree that there are 3 grounds for getting covid confirmation, vaccination, testing and disease, so it's not written anywhere, and we don't propagate that someone must be vaccinated, but we're asking a question if someone doesn't want to be vaccinated for some reason, so there's a test left for him, so to get into some public space some of us still have to pay for the test. What about those poor citizens who can't be vaccinated for health reasons, how will they pay? What about your students, is there perhaps a greater engagement of JLS, the state to allow these people to be available for testing, and I say if they are not able to pay themselves? And ultimately, freedoms and rights yes but unless it endangers the right of the individual and the right of another person. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81238	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81239	Good afternoon. And the honourable representative Marić, you made several interesting suggestions and actually comments. What I'm interested in is you mentioned yourself that the doctor's profession has referred to the government and the headquarters of the request for the covid's confirmation to be brought as an obligation to all employers and to enter all public spaces and the government has not listened to them. I followed the presentation of Minister Beros, he asked why he is not in private areas or why he is not in shopping centres, etc. The same measure said it's a balance between economy and health, and I quote, and we don't have the ability to translate is that we're not rich enough to implement these measures. In my opinion, that is a completely unacceptable answer, and I think that HDZ should be hit, but on the other hand, I still think that the opposition, and on your part, should be clearer about what we really want, whether we want to do both in shopping centres and in other public places. be a covid certificate, point. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81240	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81241	Thank you very much. So, I said what you said again, this attempt at balance. So it's clear to me when I'm told on this side, so there's no charge of VAT if people can't all go to malls. But again I'm talking, so give me a cost-free benefit analysis, what it costs you one day on the respirator, how much it costs you to stay one patient in the hospital, human life doesn't have a price, how much less infected and less dead to go, so I deliberately emphasized it here, so the waist has been looking for more of these items temporarily for two weeks. I've asked for health testing, so both vaccinated and unvaccinated in two weeks, not all my life, so we're looking for cost-benefit analysis to substitute us. It's very clear to us what the advantage is, so it's an advantage to test people out. I said that a year ago everywhere where the spaces were closed. So if we're in the middle of a pandemic now, then yes, there's these measures everywhere, and I'm standing tight. behind the waist. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81242	The next replica of the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81243	Your Honor, you're a doctor and you know what it's like to actually work with patients. In your presentation, you have also presented several suggestions that can be accepted if there will be hearing. However, your question goes to an exhibition on how it is actually possible to implement the law to those who are medically justified from being vaccinated and how the law can be implemented where most people and in areas are actually such poverty that they are not able to pay for the tests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81244	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81245	Thank you very much. Yeah, and there's the same sentence I actually used which would be a possibility. Of course, not everyone can be vaccinated with any vaccine, not one medicine, but there is always someone who has a valid medical contraindication and I mentioned it. What about those citizens, who would like to be vaccinated at the very end of the line, but his health profession tells him, "Listen, don't, you have a contraindication." So, at this point that, you can get into the assembly or I don't know in school that you're being tested, free testing, I mean free, of course it's not free, that it's all this budget pays or all of us, but at that point man doesn't have to take out the money out of his pocket, but the question is again how long, how many states can it all go together. There have been some indications, so here we don't know how long it will be free, so this, so what, so just make it clear to the Croatian public will be free for as long or as long as it will be constantly free or we'll include what I mentioned to JLS One part to get involved, here's the solution. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81246	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81247	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Maric, it's someone in your life, when you want to like everyone in the end, you don't like anyone. So I have a feeling that this process is also related to Covid-19. And it's actually about life or death that the HDZ government wanted to like a little bit of everyone, and I'm afraid I didn't like anyone, and if that's all right at the paper level, but it's at the level of human life, then this is a little bit of a problem. Equally all the time with that lady or gentleman's profession in one way or another. So, inconsistencies in decisions is one of the problems. Of these people who don't want to be vaccinated, so not all the anti-vaxers, they don't want to be vaccinated because they're being questioned and I don't know you're really and you've spoken and spoken freely and used even every time Minister Beros said there are some things to be done, so when that profession is finally going to start listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81248	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81249	To thank you for your question and for your comment, that is also my question when will start to respect those of us who openly tell you that we are on your side in the sense that we want to improve that health system, that we want to get out of the pandemic as soon as possible. So here's the minister to ask, and you have to ask the government when they're gonna listen in the first row of the profession. I am both a professional and a representative but you have people who, let's say, are pure of politics means that they are a complete profession, which gives concrete measures. People who work every day in intensity who see what it's all about and don't listen to it either. So no, it's not like we all have to like each other. You don't think I'm the kind of person who's opposed to vaccinations, antivaxers, etc., so what they're telling us is that we're Satans, that we don't know because we're talking about what the profession and science points out. I'm not afraid to say my opinion because I think it's professional and scientific, and now whether the ministry and the government will finally listen. Well, I guess they will someday. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81250	The next replica, the respected representative, Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81251	Dear colleagues, Maric, in your debate, you have covered a lot of political decisions in the work of headquarters and everything we have been led to today. But what you have a great advantage of other colleagues and colleagues is that you are also a doctor. Now what I think would be good for the public to hear, and you certainly have a lot of information about what is the situation in our general hospitals, how many people we have in our departments, what does it look like, and in particular what is the situation in northern Croatia today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81252	Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81253	Thanks for asking. So, the situation is misery, grief, and disaster in short terms. Why? We've talked about this many times, I've made it very clear what the problems are. Of course, at this point we have to devote ourselves to patients who are dyspnoic who are severely ill, severe clinical images, you have to put it on the respirator.../incomprehensible/... etc., and of course the capacities are directed at a large part in the treatment of Covid patients. Who's suffering? The other patients are suffering not because we're very bad but because this emergency has an advantage. But it can't be more of a long time. So people can't have these other people who didn't Covid get sick anymore. I can't do that anymore. So you have worsening malignancies, diabetes, complications. So we've formed departments of type surgery, neurology it's all turned into Covid. Our surgeons, neurologists, endocrinologists all work in Covid. Well, we're all sick of Covid. This is what the Croatian public must understand. We've had enough of the first pandemic, so give it to us. Listen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81254	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs Maric the situation in northern Croatia is not good, but you must say when there are problems, let's say, with respirators, it reacts spotlessly, if needed help is also responding. I wouldn't say it was a dramatic situation. The situation is serious, the health system is as burdened as you said yourself. The medical associations, of course, give their recommendations, people are actively evolved at the crisis headquarters that are in HZZ, so they didn't finish their veterinary work. But look at the World Doctor's Association, September 14th, the president requests a change from 3G to 2G, whether the Federal Republic of Germany adopted it, is not, is considering mandatory vaccination, I hope that no mandatory vaccination will be required. I think we should talk about problems, but we should say that in Croatia the situation is such that we should not talk about any alarming situation and any It's a catastrophic scenario. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81256	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81257	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, we agree on a lot of things, but I can't agree with this word of yours. It's a dramatic situation. You know why? Because this situation has been going on for over a year and a half, remember since we've been mobilized, remember what they're doing I mentioned neurologists, surgeons, endocrinologists, I'm not every day in Covid, but God knows, and I know what my situation in polyclinics is I'm dealing with, what my colleagues are dealing with, so it's a dramatic situation, because we can't do our jobs and what we're trained for. Why would a surgeon take care of a patient in Covid, and he has to because we're not enough. The number of respirators, you know that I am very objective and fair, I have asked the question and Minister Beros and I know exactly how many respirators there are and of course can be brought from Zagreb to Čakovec respirator at a given time, yes, but in an hour, two, three, five, but who will work on these respirators. Well, we don't have enough anesthesiologists. The intense, so people had to learn, so you know that well. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81258	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81259	Dear colleague Maric, I hope warmly and want to be as optimistic as you are that this kind of pandemic madness will end as soon as possible and that we will begin normal, normal lives. What comes out of your debate about the greater consensus in making decisions I, in relation to you, to your expertise, to your honesty, to your words for this payphone I would immediately agree with you to make this decision 2/3 of the majority but I am not sure that all of our colleagues and colleagues here are unequivocal in expression and that they are sincere or speaking with the figure in their pocket and move other initiatives. I agree with you that it should be open, honest and that you should make your point at all costs. And I personally commend you for your initiatives for mobile teams towards the Ministry for the maximum resolution of the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81260	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81261	Thank you very much for your commendation, and let's do that reverse thing. So, we have a lot of initiatives, I've been sending amendments and proposals, not just amendments and mobile vaccination teams in these winter months to better divide the elderly and the greater involvement of the ddd sanity, but you've all refused, I'm just curious about how you've raised your hand. As for the two-thirds majority, how many of you? 77, you listened to all of us, did either of us speak here at least most of us not to support what the profession suggests? Add it up, we'd have a two-thirds majority just to listen to what we're pointing at and what we're talking about all the time. I'm not with a fig tree in my pocket, and I don't think they're even colleagues with a fig in their pocket, so count on how much support we would give to what we say and what we're looking for all the time, just so we're respected and there's no problem. And I repeat, there would be greater legitimacy and greater strength. All these decisions and there wouldn't be any questions at all, at least there wouldn't be so many. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81262	Next individual debate, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81263	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman. So we have before us a law in which we will actually limit the availability of those who do not have enough to pay for the test, that is one of the facts that we have heard today. The second thing we're going to get from this law is that it won't get the legitimacy of this legislative body, so again it's going to be some political decision that's going to put again into question trust that isn't at all high level. When I asked the question through replica today, I asked Mr. Minister whether or not we were responsible for having such a low level of cleavage in Croatia, which is why such a low level. The answer was that I should read what the headquarters said and look at people who simply did not accept what the headquarters was saying. So, I'd say society is people's fault for not being vaccinated. It's something deep wrong, it's not right. What should have been clearly defined or done at first was that citizens should have received consent in one way or another to their level of education, social position, anything they should have received better and better quality information. The fact is that the government tried through the "Vacinate, Think of Yourself" campaign, you worked, you worked, but you did not achieve the goal. After two years, it is no longer possible to justify that some other ways could not overcome this level and the growing mistrust of the citizens they had with or who have had towards vaccination. You should have found better ways. Were our school students sufficiently informed about this disease and how to protect themselves from it properly? Is that what repressive measures are all about? You will never, ever find those who will go against it but for it. The legitimacy of course political decisions by a two-thirds majority is a finished story for you, I see that you will have enough hands that it will not be possible to achieve, what the opposition requires. And I'm also calling you back on the fact that by persistently insisting on politicizing all of this, you're actually increasing the minority, the loud minority that is growing every day. In fact, the goal of protecting people by vaccination and that protection not only by vaccination but by other means is more acceptable to most of society, which is more acceptable to us to those who were actually part of that drip than to achieve it, it is certain that this is the case. The pandemic situation will obviously take a long time and a dialogue that every government when it has such a big problem must achieve with the opposition has not been reached. We can expect even worse. And so I think that this is how you reject and with a high-ranking people it's guilty can't be the answer. It's the government's fault, the one who's in charge of that same people who chose her. The government must find more acceptable and better ways to protect people if you want both by prevention and, above all, by timely means. If we were to act on time with more education, with more information sure to come to some to get at least 10 or 20, I'm really speculating now, but the fact is that the untimely action has led to this situation that we have today point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81264	Next is an individual debate by respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. First, I try to remove the opposition allegations that this law is a deal with political insolents. This law is a deal with law enforcement. If, at the same time, he is a political insinuator and a law breakinger, then we have a problem with the law, not with the HDZ or the ruling majority or the government and the headquarters. So it is quite clear that we are living in a state where the rule of law has been established and especially by those who have sworn to respect the Constitution and the law. If that law was passed here in HS, then we're all obliged to respect it and there's no equal here that we would take for granted a la carte to use and respect the law when it suits him, and when it suits me, I won't. So that's the first thing. Another thing I'm trying to say is that the opposition in HS is unarticulated. What's this about? I at the end of the day after the clubs made their views, I don't know, I don't know if it's a problem with the way the law is passed or the problem with the ineffectiveness of the covid certificate? That's two very important things. Let's go to this first one, as far as the method of adoption is concerned, whether the Chamber respects the Constitution is determined by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said that the Parliament could have wanted the ruling majority could have wanted to use the article. 17th because of the existing Article. 17. says that in certain situations, if it is also a natural disaster, because it can also cause an epidemic, and thus this constitutional referendum of Mostov is groundless because the parliament will still be able to, and not have to decide how to restrict human rights and freedoms. So is that the problem? The Constitutional Court said the Parliament could do the same. Article 17 16. decide to restrict human rights, and none of us in HDZ argues that we are not restricting human rights. We restrict them in accordance with the law and the Constitution. 16 when it comes to public health, it can be decided by a qualified majority, 76 hands, so there is no dispute at all and there is no doubt about it. And this referendum won't change anything and I still don't know who wrote that question constitutionally when he still left the formulation he can, and he doesn't have to, because we're still going to stay in the same position. As far as efficiency is concerned, and nothing will change the effectiveness of the covid certificate's decision by a two-thirds or a half-way majority, it will again be the same document that is created by the basis of vaccination or testing or disease recovery, therefore nothing will change in terms of the effectiveness of the covid certificate. And when we talk about efficiency, then one part of the opposition says it's inefficient because that still whoever has a covid certificate can infect their counterpart and we agree that they can, but much less, 20 times less. I think that the majority of people who respect the achievements of science in the 21st century and in the opposition agree that the covid certificate is therefore justified from the medical point of view and is very helpful in suppressing the epidemic. When we talk about human rights, it is very important to respect the fact that we should be careful when we speak to the restriction of human rights, but to all those who are against the covid certificate it is necessary to say that the abolition of the covid certificate would harshly, roughly restrict fundamental human rights prescribed by the Constitution of Croatian citizens. One of the fundamental human rights of the Constitution has also established freedom of movement, and then the question is, where would I and how would this be my fundamental freedom of movement, if you will and more what the Constitution tells me whether getting out of the Republic of Croatia and returning to the Republic of Croatia is the basis of the Constitution of freedom of every Croatian citizen's question as much as and to what extent without a covid certificate Croatian citizens can consume that constitutional right of freedom of movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81266	We have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81267	He's been injured. 238th Insultation and Disdainment of MPs. The MP Bačić made a completely unfounded and publicly unfounded claim, which is also dangerous for public health, which is that the vaccines carry less than 20 times the infection. It's proven publicly that it's a title from an Australian common portal, not even a medical portal, and that's what Mrs. Bubash called it. So, please do not refer to the headlines of any portals and present these dangerous claims to the public who have been repeatedly denied and insulted by our intelligence [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81268	You made a replica of Mr. Bačić, and then you get a warning. Here's your respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81269	...I'll have time in replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81270	Let's go to the replicas, the first respected representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81271	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Bacic. I am convinced that you will agree that the covid-19 disease epidemic is caused by the SARS CoV-2 virus too serious a disease to be treated lightly and somewhat irresponsiblely. It is indisputable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has helped citizens and workers and entrepreneurs through the past two financial years with many measures, so I would ask you once again to remind us here what this is all about the Government in the past two financial years, and it is about covid -19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81272	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81273	I thank my colleague Begonja. You have now gone to the part where the government's obligation except to protect the health of the Croatian citizens and through this segment of care for the economy, for jobs, for all workers in Croatia best tells the data that compared to the height of GDP, we are the second in a row after Malta state that has allocated funds from the budget to each other in the real sector at the time of the biggest epidemic when we were in one part and locdown when we limit our business to those same entrepreneurs, we have allocated 17 billion kuna to preserve 700 thousand jobs in Croatia and these funds are directed towards 120 thousand employers. The fact made it possible for Croatia to record record record GDP growth in Croatia this year. These measures are systematic, planned and well implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81274	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81275	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, I would refer to two parts of your exposure. The first is what you said at the end, and it is about freedom of movement, so it is also a foundation, one of the fundamental rights of the EU, as you said in the constitution itself. In that sense, I agree with you that this issue of changing the constitution from the initiative of the Lords of the Mosta is immaterial. As for this amendment to the law, so the covid certificate, I agree absolutely with you. There's a question of where we can do it if God really doesn't accept this initiative, where we could travel. Somewhere around here you've been told to vaccinate because there won't be a problem. However, the covid certificate can either be obtained or vaccinated or the patients who have been tested, so which document, for example, you go to Austria, stays in Slovenia, the tankers, you cannot enter the gas station if you do not have a covid certificate, what will you show there, paper that you have been vaccinated in Croatian, what will you show at the airport in Spain? So think about it a little bit, you're limiting people's freedom of movement, and that should be quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81276	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81277	I'd like to thank my colleague, Habian. Originally, when the Commission, the European Commission set out the document, the public legal document, it had a passport property. It's just that when we say that he once existed as a passport, we're talking about allowing you freedom of movement and I don't agree with those who are trying to hide somehow that during the epidemic, human rights are not being restricted. At the time of the epidemic, the task of the state is to limit human rights. It's also calling for total freedoms, at this time we should live then beyond the real time when you daily 60-70 people die or in the world I don't know how many millions, over 5 million people died in the world, we need to make sure that the fundamental right to life is fundamentally human right, and the assumption of life is health that you would keep that health safe. In order for as few people as possible to die, you must limit certain human rights. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81278	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81279	Dear colleague Bačić, I've picked up a replica at one point, then it's practically replicating everything else, but I'm going to stay on this for what I've done. I mean, do you understand the logic you're saying, you're saying that someone's doing something illegal so far, and now you're just passing a law that will regulate it. I have to admit that your logic is not clear to me, and the fact that you are doing this shows in fact what is a key problem of HDZ leadership at this point in the country, which is inorganization and inability to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81280	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Brumnic, you've been here almost the whole time since we started our active fight against the epidemic and the pandemic of the crown. And the minister said in his introduction that we changed the law twice, so please, before you get up and replicate me, read Art. 47. The law we're changing today, so you'll see what measures are prescribed and says and says, and other measures, and other measures. These other measures are also a covid certificate that is not the invention of this government or of this ruling majority. This measure is also the result of the adoption of the European Commission and the Community of the countries to which we belong, and this is only done because those who are obliged to comply with the law will be sanctioned because they do not respect the law. That's why the law is passed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81282	Time. The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81283	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, therefore, the first constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights cannot be limited in a way that is not defined by law, in a way that is clear and predictable, so it cannot be under that and second, so it cannot because it does not meet the basic requirements of Article. 16, which is the clarity of predictability and accessibility, which are the quality of the law, so it does not satisfy the fundamental quality of the law. Secondly, the founder is in Art. 17th said he in Art. 17. speaks of those rights and freedoms guaranteed and guaranteed by the constitution, in 16 he does not speak of those guaranteed and guaranteed by the constitution of the explicit. In 17 he makes that difference and says when a council can meet to decide a two-thirds majority, and only if it can't be done with the co-sign of the president, so the founder thought about the principle of brakes and balance Parliament, and only when Parliament cannot then rule. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81284	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81285	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bencic, I can explain to you a hundred times, you will never accept it, but if you do not want to accept what I am telling you, you as a representative should respect what the institution of this state is saying, which is competent to interpret the constitution. A.k.a. 16. If you want to read it carefully, you will see that human rights and freedoms can be restricted, which is now the case and what none of this does not run away, in the event of protection of public health and order by law, law or we are discussing the law today. I think that today we are discussing the law, not today we are discussing a report, but a law that we define and, as we have done before, where we have identified what measures, which is a niche of measures that the headquarters who is authorized to do, and whose assembly is under the Civil Protection System Act and the Public Protection Act delegated that niche measure to use when he thinks it is necessary, and not you, but experts. when they think that a measure should be hired and activated, they take it out of the niche adopted by the Civil Protection System Act. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81286	Honorable representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81287	Article 238, I mean, here's what I think is a little bit of a common sense injury. So we're all talking about that, that in the regular time of law and freedom, the law passed in the assembly is limited to ordinary and qualified as already prescribed for which law. On a regular basis. We're limiting the rights of citizens because here we are not allowed to drive drunk, it's a regular time. It is an extraordinary time for us to limit ourselves in a way that someone cannot access a job unless he has met certain conditions that he must not at regular times. So it's an extraordinary time and we can do it. But not after the 16th. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81288	You get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81289	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, you're turning the saw upside down. This in other words means your speech or you go about it and transfer responsibility to opposition. These 50% non-vaccinated people are not the responsibility of the opposition. These 50% people who aren't all anti-vaxers, each country has an anti-vaxer somewhere up to 10%. These 50% or less to be fair by the end of 45% of people who don't vaccinate, they don't split among other reasons, among other reasons because the decisions were inconsistencies, you changed them as needed and you beat the virus, you did everything you did. And the opposition that was there emphasized that she was willing to give her hand and gave her a hand for reasonable suggestions every time you treated her with pride. Likewise, I also spoke in free speech about Covid's certificates and the need to introduce and was called in this same assembly the second day by a fascist. You forgot all that together. So it's up to you and your government. And this isn't a debate about Covid confirming that or not, but something else entirely. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81290	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81291	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, you say these 50% are not the responsibility of the opposition, if you turn the pill upside down now as you impute to me, then it means that you're in favour of mandatory vaccination from what you've now exposed to me, you're in favor of mandatory vaccination, and you're probably all going to be the same as then vaccinated, and we're saying otherwise. We're not talking about Covid's certificates, so the citizens will choose whether to vaccinate or to be tested. And these remaining 50% who don't want to or from, and it's not 50, 50% slowly reduced that we've come 64% or 65 today, so 65% so now it's 35% who don't want to be vaccinated either out of ignorance or out of fear, or because maybe you as an opposition were responsible and encouraged them to vaccinate them, not just us in the ruling ones. Thus, when you talk about that drink, it turns out that you would then split them all in a way that would introduce mandatory vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81292	Next replica, the esteemed Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81293	Comrade Bacic, you're saying you're not passing this law because of political inexperience that's absolutely incorrect. That's right. You have come before the Croatian Parliament only to offer us penalties for something that did not bring this Croatian Parliament. The headquarters made decisions about introducing Covid passports, which is why people get fired for which there is no basis in the law and therefore you saw that you have a problem with Petrina, Bula which I will not even mention and that is why you have come before the Croatian Parliament. Instead of being, instead of restricting rights and freedoms, if that is the case, the introduction of Covid confirms you are a necessary measure to save people's lives and that without it at this time we cannot, that you came before this Croatian Parliament and said, the people of the others do not have either lockdown or the introduction of Covid certificate, let's pass the law and prescribe conventions to break that law. You didn't do it, you came here in step 3 and it exposes you, now you're safe from the flames. Because you've got yourself into something you shouldn't have. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81294	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81295	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Glasovac, I will now answer to you because I have not yet had the opportunity of Mrs. Bencic, which is the same attitude, which is that the constitutionalist, or read the Croatian Parliament, wanted to commit itself, because the constitutionalist and this assembly that is now sitting in this mandate, would have wanted it to be his intention that 2/3 of the majority should decide what you are looking for and Mrs. Bencic and part of the opposition would then have written, then he would have been very precise in Article 17 that in the case of major crises, natural disasters, natural disasters, and now the epidemic would have to write to the lawyers, and it certainly must be done because the possibility of the assembly was left to decide and this was written to you by the Constitutional Court that the Assembly could go to Article 17 or Article 16 and if you don't understand it, then you must have some. [[Intruder: Time.]] with reading these acts. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81296	The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81297	... I'll read you Article 17 doesn't say yes, but says it can limit [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution can be limited and it is decided, decided by the parliament, not by the parliament, but by the decision. [[/Intruder: Ha, ha can, ha, ha.]] They may be limited, but if they are limited by the parliament of 2/3 of the majority, please read the Constitution. [[I'm glad.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81298	And the Rules of Procedure says you can't break it, so you get a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81299	The Rules of Procedure are a little low-level, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81300	The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81301	The Honorable Chairman Bačić injured Article 238 by insulting the common sense of all in this Chamber and including you. My colleague Bencic has now read what the word can do. I think it's terrible for me that someone who manages society, who gets most of the management of society, is distorting the fundamental values, that is, the fundamental act of this society to which they should be treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81302	Okay. You get a warning, you give a pure replica. And that's your opinion. [[Employee: Do not insult the MPs.]] Next. Answer Incomprehensible/.../... [[I answered, if, I can do it one more time if I have to. .../]] Okay, don't. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, another violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Sabine Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81303	You know what, Mr. Vice President, I feel like there's no point in reading or interpreting an article at all. 17, it's clear to those who want it to be clear, but Mr. Bacic now to explain it again is the same as to explain this tree here at your chair, so I'm giving up this one, at all, give me a warning, whatever, whatever I used, but I just don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81304	Well, fine, but don't insult me, please, our dear fellow representative that he's like a table. He's still a human being and our colleague. You're getting a warning. And you're not, there is. [[Aggression: No, no, breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] No, no, the injury. Mr. Bacic, here, I have information, I've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81305	Thank you, Vice President. - Mrs. Crescent. The voter hurt his ankle. 238. Rules of Procedure. So it's not you, ma'am. The voter's problem is that I don't understand you. That's what I'd understand. But those who are in this state do not understand you whether I or you are right, and you have sworn as a representative that you will obey the Constitution of this state, so respect it. And the insult at such a low level is much more about you than about me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81306	Okay. And you get a warning after you've replicated, not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81307	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. I think it's important what you pointed out at the beginning. Why are we bringing these amendments to the Law today? First of all, because some in this society do not want to respect what the basis of the law should respect, so colleague Voter has now said, why not set up a lockdown, as if lockdown is not a restriction of freedom and rights, it is the same measure that limits freedom and rights, as Covid confirms. We are in this situation where we restrict the freedom and rights of citizens, but the proportion of the situation we are in. And that's why we said, the measures are balanced in view of the situation, at some stage we resort to the measure that is most appropriate for that stage. We can't say we don't make decisions qualifiedly. Any decision taken by the majority prescribed for it is qualified, and no one prevents the opposition from voting all for the decision we make [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81308	Time Answer. [[I thank Mr. Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81309	Dear colleague Jelkovac. So, about you art. 17 or 16, we've already said that 100 times, less than we've said about it, that's what the one who's authorized in this country and called on to say about it, and he said that this is the way of managing the crisis in accordance with the Constitution and that's the end of the story for me. There is no parliament, remember this, there is no parliament in Europe, and or I will be even more precise, in the European, in the EU Member States, where this parliament of that state, and I think it is the same democratic states, I assume that Germany is a democratic state, that Sweden is, that Austria is, that they are democratic states, that France is, that Portugal is, too, that they are democratic states. And there the council doesn't determine the two-thirds majority. And on the note that someone who is not a doctor, across Europe is managed by admirals, generals and other persons who are not necessarily doctors, operating with [[Intruder: Time.]] With the fight against the crisis in that country. [[Employee: Next Replication Respected Advocacy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81310	Hope Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81311	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor. Here, all the time the opposition calls for this and other laws to be passed by a two-thirds majority. Of course listening to the debate is almost impossible because all the debates are that they are mostly against what is proposed by the government and by the HDZ majority and therefore the two-thirds majority... Most Utopias. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, please. Secondly, I'd just like to point out one more thing, a confirmation of what I'm saying, you said they were unarticulated and we've been listening to them since the debate goes from demanding and calling for extremely strict measures and lockdowns, so on the other hand, they claim that these measures are too mild, and we think they're balanced dictatorships, and at the same time they call for restrictions on freedom of movement and the measures of dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81312	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81313	I agree with my colleague Murganić, so this Staff, this Staff, has already shown that the measures prescribed by HS Public Protection Act, and there are a series of measures, a series of measures some of them are not in place now, so we as legislator have established that framework, we have prescribed what measures to do at the time when an epidemic or pandemic is declared at global level, which the Staff can activate at a certain point. I can't imagine a situation where this Assembly of measures that it prescribed would take implementing measures and then determine whether it was in 2.C, I already said, basic schools in Sinj, whether there would be, whether there would be an online teaching or not. Do we, I don't know, have five stands or 20 on some cherry-based salary there, and whether it will be limited in the Djurovac municipality on October 20th last year to determine how many people there can be? at that one reunion. [[Intruder: Time.]] Is that what we're gonna decide here in Parliament? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81314	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81315	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. 238. I would say that the distinguished representative Murganic spoke of what the opposition was saying, I haven't heard it since the opposition, that she didn't hear what she said, that I couldn't conclude at any point no matter how much I wanted to be intrusive that the opposition said it. If you had secured the fissure we today wouldn't be discussing the covid confirmation yes or no, that the split of the nation at all 80% today, this law wouldn't even have been discussed. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81316	And you get a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81317	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, here I am looking at a social network recently, and a great title for my colleagues, Grumoje, is what he says, is that we're going to take down the headquarters, we're going to cancel the covid certificate. Then, later in the announcements, he explains how through referendum issues that no one understands, and then lists the two-thirds majority. And now that that... we're asking the same question is that right? I think so, in that two-thirds majority. How are you going to take down the certificates or the headquarters in what way, by two-thirds of the majority? Then they explain. Test yourself you will get confirmation, so we are against confirmation, so also vaccinate but we are against confirmation, and then they say we will lock you up in Croatia you will not go anywhere because without confirmation you can't go anywhere. So a total dome of bad messages and an attempt to trick the people into this referendum. Is that really a team to be trusted? People who don't know what they're saying or what they're writing, who know they can't do anything, absolutely nothing, and still ask us to make a deal with them. About what? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81318	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll fight my friend. In all countries democratically, as someone has spoken since the world and the century, when the crisis moments, and the covida-19 epidemic is a crisis moment, as the minister has said many times this morning, unprecedentedly everywhere in the world and always in all states and democratically, executes executive power, taking over the management of the crisis because the executive government is fast and efficient in its structure. Here's a debate in HS while we make some decision about how they advocate the crisis would have gone by. And that in the very sense of the Constitution means that executive power reacts quickly and promptly. We heard this morning that our headquarters was the first headquarters and the first state to respond to the oxid, that it was brought to the Parliament first, second, third reading, so you asked for this law. two readings. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] How could you not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81320	The next replica honours MP Majda Buric. Please don't communicate with each other. Here you go, Agent Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81321	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. So, you were talking about the constitution of guaranteed human rights, and I think that once again you should underline what you specifically stressed because perhaps some here have not understood well enough, which is that health and life are contitiated by son qua non-freedom, therefore the assumption of freedom, and not vice versa, because in order to be and to have constitutional right to freedom first of all, we need to be alive, and it would be desirable that we are healthy and mentally and spiritually and mentally and mentally. And the dead man doesn't need any freedom, and he can't have it, and especially the one who is guaranteed by the Constitution. So, noises about protecting personal freedom in this sense in the direction of the Mosta and others think that it results in precisely the threat of that freedom because to be We must be free to be healthy first [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And alive. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81322	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81323	Thank you, fellow Buric. Therefore, the Constitutional Court's decision is written to the Court of Justice. 17. means making a decision, not a law, so a two-thirds majority decision can prescribe freedoms and rights that can be limited, therefore by a decision not by law. But the next question can be asked, be careful that the qualified majority in the Parliament implies the fact that there is a government because without qualified majority there is no government, the government falls. And what's my counter-question if you can't establish a two-thirds majority of what then? Then we won't fight an epidemic, who'll take action then? I mean, that's a legitimate question, what if the two-thirds majority can't be found in the Parliament how we're going to fight an epidemic, who's going to take action? We're going to come here from day to day looking and collecting one by one MP... two-thirds of the majority if we can't get it, and on the other hand, a wild epidemic of hundreds of people is dying, how are we going to fight it? And that's what the founder predicted. that it is necessary that most of them who hold the government. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81324	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81325	Thank you very much. I first take the opportunity to criticize you because you are here, and in the media too many times said that we offer no solution from the opposition, we are not constructive etc. I'm not an oil expert, but I'm a health care expert, and now we're in a pandemic and we've submitted a lot of things to you as a solution and you're not listening to any suggestions. Now let's get back to what we're discussing, have you been able to figure out what part of the opposition is telling you? Did you at least count which part of it contradicts you? So we're not against vaccination, we're not against covid confirmation, we're not against testing, we're not against what we want and what we ask and we appeal to all of us. 16th and 17th and Art. In 47, if you had greater legitimacy, greater strength and greater weight of all these decisions, you'd have that two-thirds majority because we're all on the same side. And if so, what are you afraid of? And if an art. 17th and if it's not a special condition then let the minister lift our mobilization for the health system, is, however, a special condition of the art. 17. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81326	Answer. I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81327	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague hurt her ankle. 268. The Rules of Procedure belittled here all 238. The Rules of Procedure, demeaning all of us here for reasons he speaks as if we are not making a decision, and so is this legislation with legitimacy. That's not true. We bring it exactly with the majority prescribed for that law and it's legitimate, and it's also legitimate that you all vote for it if you're already in favour of all these measures. No one's stopping you from doing that. [[Intruder: Time]] Then We shall send a message to the public [[Intruder: Time]] how we all want society to be split 90% [[Intruder: Time]] And that we have a great situation in society. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81328	You get two warnings. We have our next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81329	Thank you very much, Vice President. Art. In 238, a colleague completely twists and demeans what I said, completely... No, you're wrong. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, I didn't say that these decisions usually don't have legitimacy. I was telling you well-intentioned precisely so you wouldn't have what you have out there, dissatisfaction, referendum, etc., if it had more power and more weight, and I didn't say that decisions don't have legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81330	We have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81332	Next warning, respected representative Josip Boric. You're giving up? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81333	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. Comrade Maric, you're saying that you've proposed some measures, so your colleague you kicked out, I think you're still in the SDP, right? Well, Mr. Ostojic said that he's been asking you all along to propose some measures and that you haven't been able to propose anything as a SDP, and then you kick him out of the party for that, and now you're saying that you've proposed some measures here, you haven't proposed any measures. [[Clip intrusion: Yes]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81334	A reminder to you, too. Here's your respect, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81335	Thank you very much. You just gave me a whiff today, so it's art. In 238, a colleague of Boric's right now is completely irrelevant if someone is SDP, not SDP, given someone because of this or the one he threw out. We are telling you these very clear suggestions and solutions how to stop the pandemic. Let the minister tell you how much, how many of us have suggested concrete things to him and you're twisting it all. I already told you once that you're the champion of twisting what we're saying and what we're doing, champ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81336	A warner for you, too. Answer. Replica next, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81337	No, no, answer, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81338	And you didn't answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81339	I didn't respond to Mrs. Devereaux. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81340	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81341	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maric, will the vaccine be more effective if brought to the two-thirds majority? Will it be more effective if we bring it to the two-thirds majority? Maybe, maybe they will, I doubt it. No, you don't have any colleagues, Maric, the opposition has no position when it comes to the motion for a decision which is measures, which are the measures that should be taken, so yes, so that the headquarters is more effective. It's not there, it's not me, it's not in shape anywhere, where it's been, where you put it, where you did it? Why didn't you make a decision from Art. 17? Here you call me, write it down, here it is, trying to write something of the Homeland Movement, we'll see, you didn't, SDP didn't. Write down what you're telling me, here you're replicating me and attacking me for not listening, for not supporting you, and you didn't suggest anything. Where did you write that? ... [[You're lying.]] Where's that written? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Write down amendments to the laws that will prescribe measures, so we will gladly discuss it with our colleagues, Marić, very gladly. ... That's the other thing, when it is, that's it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Since the proposals are often unmistakable, we must reject them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81342	I can see that there's a clear atmosphere developed about this, but it's not exactly as strict as it should be in the Rules of Procedure, and this replica has a respected representative, Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81343	Comrade Bačić, these changes are sanctions from 30 to 50 thousand kuna and sanitary inspectors, and let's give them the pendreks at the end of their work they have on the escalator anyway, pendrek. So there's nothing else going on, but you're going through this, you're not going over what you might want to do with two-thirds of the COvid certificate, two-thirds of the majority. That's what you're talking about. 17. The constitution speaks, but the constitution is clearly yours, behind the constitution is only God, and apparently only Branko Bačić and Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Beros. Here at this point the triba talk about the metrics. Meritum is exclusively and only sanctions for those who have respected the law is this so far been illegal. This is why you didn't punish me as the mayor of the minister if I've violated, why didn't you punish me, and now that you bring me here, and if you don't bring the two-thirds majority, I won't respect you because I'm the mayor of both the vaccinated and the unvaccinated and the poor and the rich and the left and the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81344	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Bulj, it is not only the Law on the Protection of the public but many other laws that the leaders of local self-government are responsible people and that they will enforce the laws because they have sworn to do so, and when they dare not respect the law which they are obliged to respect by protecting the same people who have chosen them in direct elections and given them tools to protect them from those who violate the law should come with this law, without the covid of confirmation being introduced because they were introduced into the legislative system but only to punish them, so whoever you want and the political indifferents, I do not hesitate to say it, but not because they are insatisfactory but because they are breaking the law. That, I don't know why you can't understand it, it's so simple, so this law, it's, the minister said it's sanctioning those who don't respect it. And that law will be passed by the majority that the minister has prescribed. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81346	Representative Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81347	A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, where it insults me to break the law. I don't break the law, I respect the law because Andrej Plenkovic told the ministers to punish Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81348	Well, it's not, it's no offense, so you get a warning. It's a different reminder for you, I draw your attention to that. ... Dear Representative Franco Vidovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81349	My colleague Bačić, so I've been listening to you very carefully, not Mr. Boric the twisting champion... Here, I'm giving you a confession, really. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what are you falling for? So you have people who, where you fall, you have people who aren't against vaccinations, who aren't against masks, who aren't against Covid's confirmation, I'm one of them. But you're mobilizing me against your measures. And on the other hand, I want to respect it, but this way you do, your consistency instead of getting this... A year and a half ago, and if you had come with the law then, you gave after years and a half with the law, and the law prescribed sanctions of 50, 60 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are you going to punish? You're gonna punish me for forgetting to put it on when I went into the store? You're gonna punish me for that? I put a warning to the saleswoman. What does that look like? [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81350	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81351	Mr. Vidich, maybe, you need to calm down. So, no, that doesn't apply to you. You haven't read the law, it doesn't apply to you. If you had read the law, then you would have seen that it is not you who falls under sanctions in the law, then you will have to read it yourself. So that doesn't apply to you. That's for starters. And the other thing is, you're here to tell me that you're making a deshpet what you would tell me in Dalmatia. We know what a despeth is. So I won't support you, not because it's bad, but because you brought it in qualified, not by two-thirds majority. That's how you did it, that's what you said. You say the measure is okay, it's okay, but I won't because you, because you don't go to the two-thirds majority and what, that way you're saying we don't respect the opposition. We respect the opposition and no one interferes with you, as counterpart Jelkovac told you while you already respect the measure, when you think it's good, that it's smart, that it's justified, that it's efficient, so support it. Why, why won't that depthlet allow you to raise your hand and be 120 hands for this law? Here, explain it to me, and don't get mad at me, yell a little bit, I don't see what that's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81352	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by MP Vidovic What's hurt? [[Intruder: Art. ...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81353	... 238, so I didn't say I wouldn't support anything but not to trust you, you're falling for consistency. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81354	It is, of course, no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but... reminder Thank you, thank you very much, please, have a seat. [[Intruder: So.]] You've been warned. [[/Intruder: You're wrong.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81355	Why... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81356	Because it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica. Read your Rules of Procedure, you'll get a second warning. [[Intruder: How is it not a breach of the Rules of Procedure if he claims that I said something I didn't say?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81357	What else am I supposed to read so you can educate me to the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81358	In addition to the law, the Rules of Procedure I will, now you'll get a second warning. [[Intruder: Will you give me another warning?]] In accordance with Article [[- That's a good one.]] 240, yeah, just keep going. [[You want another one?]] Sit down. [[How can you not be ashamed? So that's how you decide Croatia all the time.]] Sit down. And be polite. [[Intruder: Instead of bringing to Parliament to decide such a...]] Based on an article. 240th century 2 I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. [[Intruder:... how to decide.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Dear Representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81359	My colleague Bačić, regardless of our political considerations, is essentially an honor to you because for decades you have defended as head of the club from the suspicions of innocence to the fact that it is normal to arrest ministers, prime ministers, to all possible situations that you have defended until the last drop of blood, caps to the floor. But today, you're not doing very well, I don't know if you're co-ordinated properly with your club, and if you listen carefully to everything you said in the debate and in the replicas, on several occasions you come to a contradiction with yourself. From that, the opposition is to blame that the degree of fissure is such that it is good to have the executive power all decided, until we should have done so, but if it weren't for everything to be centralized, so you've jumped yourself several times in your mouth so that the opposition has to be empathic because people are dying because it's an emergency, but it's not really an emergency, we're actually liberal. So I ask you, who declared victory over the crown? Does it mean we're copying everything from Europe and we're going to lockdown as well as with Covid's certificates and what else we can actually do in this legislative To expect changes? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81360	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81361	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Jaksic. I think you've been replicating your colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, not to me because she said that the opposition turned out to be because it was a small fissure, according to her opinion, that's what Mrs. Dark Taritate, so listen to what she said. So you're not replicating me, Mr. Jaksic. You're not replicating me. As for the work of the Staff, the headquarters has shown over the past 19 months that it has protected health and protected the economy of the Republic of Croatia. That, thanks to such work by the Staff and the government and the ruling majority, Croatia will have a record GDP growth at the end of this year, never more employees and never less unemployed. After a crisis without precedent. It speaks of success or failure. And your impression, your perception, that's your thing, yours and SDP, but don't ask that your perception is shared by those who struggle with this crisis every day so that there are as many healthy people as possible and that there are more preserved jobs and healthy entrepreneurs. [[Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81362	A colleague, Jaksic, also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which he was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81363	Well, I know I'm gonna get a warning, but since my colleague Bacic didn't answer rather than interpreting that I actually replicated my colleague Mrak-Taritash, allow me. [[Then don't do it.]] As far as our perception is concerned, you're saying yourself that we have to be empathy towards so many people died and that it's a state of emergency, and then your colleagues say that it's not really an emergency, it's difficult. I'd just like to ask you, if you'll answer me, do you know the first legal changes around Covid, how many votes have been cast and whether it was the two-thirds majority, and since today you're the only one who only interprets what we think you're thinking? And not what we're saying, I'm sorry. [[Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]] For not interpreting what Ivo Sanader thinks. [[Thank you very much. I./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81364	Of course, and that wasn't this one, you know, that it was a replica, I'm asking you, here, let's calm down a little bit of passion. Let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't make sense. There's plenty of opportunities to say everything we think about, against, etc. He will now speak to a respected representative called Brumnic, please. Please, come on, Comrade Bacic, let's not do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81365	There goes my colleague Bacic, and I just thought he'd be replicating me. Dear colleagues, respected ministers after colleagues of Bačić and all these replicas, I must admit that it is quite difficult to speak too much. But let's try to explain to the colleagues on the right what democracy means, which means the democratic process, why there is this democratic process, why there is 2/3 of the majority. This 2/3 majority exists so that when the legislator made a decision, he would practically have the whole society involved in making some kind of decision in order for the decision to have the legitimacy of society. What's the key problem, I'm the first time I've spoken from this speaker will be the ability to manage in crisis situations. How capable you manage is the fact that we have the most or among the countries that have the most dead, and how many people really will die in this country thanks to this way of your behavior and this kind of management we will see today for 5 or 6 years. That's the real truth. Only then will we see the results of such management. There's no prime minister here today on this wheel, so why do you think? Because it is several times easier to deal with the problem in Ukraine and to argue under quotes with Putin than to defend the legislation of this decision in front of the Croatian Parliament. That's why he's not here. Otherwise this, we talk about it tomorrow when he comes back, and we can agree that this is a major enough crisis to be spoken of by the most responsible person in this country, which is the prime minister. And now a little bit of a reference to something that turns out to be every time I mention it from this pay phone, which is to me one of the dear politicians who left yesterday, a man would say in political history, and that is Angela Merkel, do you really think that when this prime minister leaves that Germany will say goodbye to her, that Croatia will say goodbye to this prime minister as Germany said goodbye to Angela Merkel, no. Why not? Because she knew how to run Germany, because when she was supposed to be honest with her citizens. I told you last time listen to the way she addressed herself the first time the problem of the crown was established to her citizens and what she told them, what she expects them to do and why she's doing something. That's what's expected of whoever's the leader. You've come here to propose a law and defend it yourself in a way that you can propose so that you can punish someone. So it's not the sense of punishment. The point of the law is to do good to this society, to do good to this people. That's the point of the law. Is this what you're accomplishing? You would have done so if you had come to this assembly with measures, bill proposals, and adopted it by listening to all the good things the opposition tells you. I think there is no one in this assembly, I can agree in my way to see how the Croatian society should be helped. So listen to what people say to you. Ask the minister what I told him? I didn't say one thing in a bad way. I only said one thing in good because I think by analysing the measures we've taken, by analysing the events that have happened, we can draw conclusions on how to be better in the second step. When you first took action, it was clear to me that you were bringing it in by heart, that you were gambling like the whole world because it didn't know what we were meeting. Yesterday, the president of a global or European healthcare organization said that this pandemic seems to last for another year and that perhaps then this virus will grow into endemic or that it will start to appear seasonally as a flu, that viruses are very likely to behave that way. And it's good to find the vaccine, who wants it, who doesn't want it, don't take it, but what you do when you pass this law try to do that all citizens, all Croatian citizens can only do one thing [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I can do everything they've done so far. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81366	Thank you, colleague Brumnic, thank you. You have a replica of the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81367	Comrade Brumnic, I stayed when you said I left so I could replicate. Yours, your debate has come down to a political speech about how this prime minister and this government, the ruling majority, misruled Croatia through this epidemic, so when you say when he leaves he won't be sent as Angela Merkel. You and your colleagues often claim that we both said the prime minister and we won the crown in the first wave and that's why we won the election. So I would remind you that after that there were still 2 waves and then there were new local elections and in these elections the same party whose president won it convincingly won.../incomprehensible/... percent of the county, 50% of the cities and 50% of the municipalities. About this fellow Brumnic as much as this people trust us and how much he trusts you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81368	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81369	Dear colleague Bačić, That you said you won the crown, you said, did you beat it to deny you the situation. [[Come on, come on, please don't be the bad guy at school, so don't be so hard on each other...]] Today we heard that you were the first to withdraw measures against Omicorn probably in agreement with the transformers. The transformers mean those who have withdrawn the measures they have agreed with. And as for how much the Croatian people trust you, I had a debate the other day. You exported EUR 70 billion of human potential. That's what this government did, that's trust in this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81370	Now she will speak to her respected representative, Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81371	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President Reiner, I'm going to speak a little louder so that Vice President Reiner doesn't fall asleep or fall asleep. So, what are we discussing today? We're not discussing Covid's confirmations because Covid's confirmations are facts. We wouldn't be having this law at all today if the government had done a job that was to be done and the split was 80% and they wouldn't have discussed Covid's certificates in general that, no, how, who's being punished, who's not being punished because it would be a topic of debate and should not be a topic of debate. But why are we even having a discussion today? Because HDZ has also brought us the HDZ government with its poor communication, vague messages, politicisation and exceptions to the rules for which your responsibility is, you have clouded the water. And in that cloudy water of these 45 because according to what I've seen is about 55% split 45 no, of those 45 anti-vaxers maybe 10 percent of these others are confused by the messages that they are. And instead of really supporting ourselves, we have clear messages that are because the crown is dying of the crown, one, one, or one, Knin, however you wish, is dying of the crown today. We're discussing what again today? We're discussing two issues. How those who don't do it will be punished because if 80% of the cleavage were not at all, it wouldn't be a dilemma whether we have or not, so we're discussing penalties, we're discussing sanctions, and there's one more thing they've done ruling. They want to share political responsibility at all. Well, that everything was good and that we were at an 80 percent cleavage because the questions I asked the minister gave me a very clear answer. I asked why so many deaths, but all these tables show, if you're more cleaved, the smaller the number of deaths, if the smaller the fissure is the larger the number of deaths. And I'm technical, I love all the curves and tables, and I get it. It is therefore absolutely clear why such a large number of deaths are in Croatia. They wouldn't be if we had a bigger cleavage. We wouldn't have to discuss it. But in political responsibility when you're in front of the wall, and you're in front of the wall, you don't know how to go on and think that by punishing something, let's go when it's good, I'm responsible, and when it's wrong, let's take responsibility for it all together. So then it turns out that the opposition like this, the naka, that this is it, that's it. The opposition is absolutely clearly articulated. I've made my position clear from this booth several times, and I repeat it every time. A clear attitude is vaccination, we vaccinate, the vaccine is an achievement which is and trust science. Don't trust me, don't trust the headquarters, don't trust the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, don't trust all those who appear in public space, trust your parents, trust yourself. Well, we've all been vaccinated so far, and I don't know how many times and nobody's asked us. When we were inoculated, we didn't ask whose vaccine we were vaccinated with one or the other. Let's go back to the big goddess situation when the whole former country was split in one breath, but there were no messages in the room that were ambiguous. There was no message that we had this or that. And go back to two topics that you didn't regulate with this law. One topic that you have not regulated, which is a question there is justifiable medical reasons why someone should not and cannot be vaccinated. I was one of the ones I was, I was a girl in grade three when they were big goddesses and they couldn't vaccinate me and I was trapped for a month. The first week was great because I didn't have to go to school, so it was great, but I didn't have to go out for that month, and I didn't have to contact anyone because they couldn't vaccinate me. And I know what that means and I still remember it. So there are medical reasons why someone should not be vaccinated. These people, what we're going to do, we're going to stop them from going out, we're going to ban them from going to institutions, instead of telling the law about these exceptions who defines them and how. And second, it's absolutely clear why this law is passed. It's saying that individuals can be punished. There is no provision when you punish only an individual or those who lead but always punish legal persons. Why didn't you do it this time? Well, because you wanted to punish individuals. In this way, you will not achieve greater fissure but in some other way and some other methods yes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81372	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81373	Dear MPs, Mr. Taritash, I thank you as a person who strongly advocates vaccination with this existing vaccine as it is, honestly you say that most people who do not want to be identified as anti-vaxers, but people are confused. I think the problem at first is that people are being muddled, decisions are untransparent and people aren't being told the truth because people are confused why I have to take the vaccine 3 times in 9 months. Would it be fairer to tell people science has managed to do what it has done in those 9-10 months, the vaccine is not perfect, the wind may be in 3 months, but for immunocompromised and older still is better and show them some statistics. Would it be better to talk about reality as it is than to mystify, and then people see in reality that it's different so they're disappointed and they don't believe anything anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81374	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81375	Thank you very much. I've said it a few times, so I'll do it again this time. If I hadn't listened to headquarters, I didn't listen to the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I listened to common sense, I listened to those who understood it. You know, when I go somewhere else or when I go to the doctor right now, I don't tell you, I'd like you to operate on that, but if you were to operate on me for, say, 20 minutes, because I have so much time. I saw on YouTube that it could really be done that way and then nice to be with some nice ending around here to make it nice for me and that after two days I have to go home, because I know it all, it never occurred to me. The same way when it comes to vaccination, I listened to those who spoke about it in a measure and talked about vaccination because if you do not, you will die, you will not pass it on to anyone else but you will die. So, but the messages from our headquarters were actually hunting in the blurry, so a little bit like that, so we won a little bit, so we didn't get a little bit. And that's one of the problems. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81376	Thank you very much. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81377	Thank you, dear colleague. Here is a clue to what your colleague Rasudic asked you, and I think we have really two problems, one is the crown, the other is HDZ and HDZ headquarters, when these two problems come together, we have one Godzilla that no other EU member states have. Recently, there was a fantastic documentary on HRT about how the crown was worn by the crisis by Denmark, which introduced among the first COvid certificates, there it did not cause resistance among citizens because it was seen as an opportunity to normalise life and the way they were used to life. But there the government also communicated about possible side effects and that it would be monitored where and where side effects occur. There the government took good care of the risk groups that the vaccine could not or should not be received, there everything was done to resolve the fears of a part of the public as soon as possible and to reduce and there is society Much easier to answer at all [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] challenges and problems. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81378	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81379	Thank you very much. When we had a discussion about a year ago, there was an impelation and we had until the late evening hours, Minister Beros just got over the crown, and I was home, and I called home, and I felt sorry for him because I knew what it was about. He sat there until three, four o'clock in the morning, and it was a little easier for me to sit at home than he was, and then we all asked clearly together and said, what kind of campaign you were going to make for the vaccination, we were already aware of that. The first vaccination was between Christmas and New Year's, and then we were aware of a series of things and said you had to make a good vaccination campaign and it must be an interest to have the nation split up. In Denmark, it was possible to live in Denmark. In Sweden, too, some things were possible if the Swedishs lived there. With us obviously without the halabu, without any increased tensions at all. We can't even do a simple thing like cleavage to do. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81380	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81381	Dear people. Here we are all talking about measures, basically the only measure that is... it's the discipline of local leaders in this case of the Office of Presidents of the Republic, the only measure that is proposed what is being said that so far who have done so, is me as mayor of the city of Sinj, who has allowed both vaccination and testing for all people. The only measure here is punishment. The sea happens boomerang, boomerang is very strange because if you bring in a two-thirds majority you break the Constitution, Minister, you violate the Constitution. Fundamental human rights and freedoms are something that has been hard to fight and you, Boric, cannot know Bačić Branko, Milorad Pupovac, about it. The two-thirds majority of HS is an art. 17. I got along or disagreed. We have a problem here that we've been talking all day about measures, and basically we have illegal use of covid confirmation illegal. In the seventh month, on the eighth time the EU and states introduced those certificates, Prime Minister Plenkovic and your government claimed you would not introduce a covid certificate. All of a sudden, as road robbers, you've imposed it on local leaders, like road robbers without any basis, and you're doing it all the time with the contradiction of your messages. My colleague was just talking about vaccination, so for 18 years, a professional soldier knows how much vaccine did I receive? If the triba will be experimental, but I will fight for freedom of choice, if the triba experiment volunteers. I've recently given and I'm a willing blood donor, but what have you done with this people? You've trampled his dignity, you've violated the Constitution, you've made this body a obedience to violate the Constitution of the constitutional founder of HS. Yes, I've made as mayor a decision that I can't respect an illegal decision and that I'm the mayor of all and vaccinated and unvaccinated and I'm not an anti-vaxer, but every man has to have the freedom of any kind of coercion, and most of all, an illegal coercional coercion. You have endangered people's right to work without a legal and constitutional basis because if it were different, you wouldn't be passing this law today. This law is just sanctions for colleagues and colleagues, just sanctions, this is a Christmas dictatorship. It used to be January 6th in these rooms, this is a Christmas dictatorship. She can be Minister of Boomerang. This is a classic credentials di we constitutionalists have delegated the Constitution and we have given the headquarters unlawfully, especially if you vote this simply for the majority of 76 hands, not for the two-thirds majority. And what do you expect from your colleague, Boric? With me you can go into town and be vaccinated unvaccinated, if you need and tested.../incomprehensible/... so every citizen of my city. I will never violate fundamental human rights and freedoms in my city while I am the mayor of my citizens by the decision of a assembly that is anti-constitutional. We don't have to get along in anything colleagues and colleagues, voted this with 76 hands that's a classic store that's not 2/3 of the majority. Regardless of my position that 2/3 most of me would appreciate it. And you had your chance. They're colleagues from the opposition right, you had it, you didn't make it. You've done your job. You've done your job. You've done your job. Such powers, even if the minister made the decision and made it rather than the headquarters, so the minister said the first commander of your police, the minister, said by January 4th that the tests were not worth the tests, said on November 5th, that he would not tolerate what kind of expert he is, he must be the general defence. So 5th-grade tests won't be worth it. So listen, folks, you, this law is for us a few, but all this is waiting for you, and your children will be forced to give you vaccines. They'll do anything they can think of. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If this goes away. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81382	Thank you, we have several replicas of the first respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81383	Thank you very much. I understand you and your need to try to subdue the city of Sinj politically to yourself, but I claim to you the responsible city of Sinj will never be a buljograd, always be the city of Sinj regardless of your political appetites. You understand? And that's why your behavior is a little weird. Here you swear to obey the Constitution and the laws, then the replica of Mira Bulja is in Sinj as mayor says I will not, not be, for my political appetites. And then you say wrongly that citizens don't respect, respect there when they enter school, county institutions, some state institutions in the city of Sinj will have to show confirmation. The fact that, if they're coming into town with you, that's worrying because I don't know what you're doing out there in that town. Did you share the trash cans with the citizens? I don't know, solved some problem, because he says an old good saying to you, Miro Bulj, promises you a little bag, little bag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81384	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81385	I'm glad Plenkovic's cereal inspires me like that. Yeah, it's never been worse since the '90s, but now it's messed up. But I'm glad those voters can show you their e-mails. They say it's an honor. You don't give it to the people against the law. I respect the law because that law is valid Plenkovic has ordered ministers at a cabinet meeting to punish Bulja and others. And the Justice Minister says we can't punish him, we have to pass the law. So there was a calculation of fathers 10,000 punished him, 20, 30, 40 so it was. So I've been working under the law. And the results in Sinj read, you can only dream of them, you have never achieved them or even the first president of the Republic of Croatia. First President of the Republic of Croatia It's about your work so far. [[Intruder: Please not from the bench.]] And the city of Sinj is a free city and I am the mayor of all citizens and vaccinated and unvaccinated and left and right and HDZ, all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81386	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81387	Dear Representative Bulj, I don't know when to go to Sinj if you need to take a small or large bag because I don't come from this mile that's understood in the bags, so I don't want to talk about it but something else. We're the legislator here. Each of us represents one 150th of the only part of the legislator as a small pebble in this mosaic. However, you have now found yourself in the position of passive legislator because the law is changing because of you, because of the Office of Presidents. The president said he's got an army, he's got a dog says it's a little easier for him, and so did Mr. Petrina, who in the meantime, has a little bit of silence. So, I'm curious about what it feels like to be a passive legislator because Prime Minister Plenkovic explicitly said after they introduced Covid's confirmation that he would give posters to his ministers to change laws so that people like you who don't insist could be violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81388	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81389	Well, you can even think about a conflict of interest here, right? I'd like to be reported by a conflict of interest. I could report myself actually as a parliamentary representative to vote on the law, but I'll tell you the truth. I am proud to have respected the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and this law is a confirmation of that. Confirmation that I respected the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And this boredom was all illegal and someone has to answer for it. You've unlawfully imposed on people that Covid confirms that, important at work, that, losing people's jobs, they can't move and now you're doing even worse. Instead of 2/3 respecting the Constitution, you again want to solve the problem in Croatia with your commercial majority, and impose a sixth January pardon, I do not want the sixth January, but here is the Christmas dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81390	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81391	Thank you, thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleagues Bulj, here I am free this law could be named after you lex Bulj, because it is evident from this that it was made precisely on the basis of your resistance and then some colleagues who followed you by trying to some punishments but people don't understand if someone decides that even punishment is not enough to prevent it. Unfortunately, many people who pass laws here have strayed from the people, not participating in conversations with the people as equals but look at them with heights and love to be persated, and in that case they do not know what the people truly think. And you said rightly, you're the mayor of all citizens, and that's how it should be, and I believe that you have the right information that the people thinks because otherwise you wouldn't stand up and here you wouldn't get your law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81392	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81393	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is that we've been talking all day about covid measures, but here we don't mention Covid measures here we only have sanctions that confirm that the local leaders who are and the President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic were 100% right because there would be no such proposal. The prime minister told the government to punish me, punish me, punish them, cut off their heads. And this is just a confirmation, we don't have any changes, that citizens know no change just sanctions to legalize insolent Covid certificates that are not guaranteed to protect people, and they unfortunately with Covid's confirmation and the vaccinated are passed on by Covid. That's what I can claim in the workplace where I'm operating right now. And I'll never respect the constitutional decisions, so even if the punishment is, hungry, hungry. I won't respect the constitutional decision you're making. Never, never.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81394	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81395	How did this story with Covid go anyway? She started out as a public fraud. I quoted Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Bozinović, Plenkovic, on September 28th, Bozinovic, as saying on October 25th that Covid will not be introduced into Croatia at any time in hospitals, when he sees Covid's confirmation. The same may soon be with mandatory vaccination or vaccination of children as a condition that they attend school. Which lets us think the opposite. So it went public. Then it continued beyond the law. He explicitly says Prime Minister Plenkovic after Covdi's confirmations were introduced by the headquarters that he would order his ministers to amend the laws so that Covid's certificates were passed. to provide for some sanctions. So all those who did not obey them did not act beyond the law and there was no way to punish them. They are discriminatory, public officials do not have to pay for the test as long as there are tests soon they will probably not be because we see that they are not intended as a item in the budget, and an ordinary man who is not a civil servant to come to the workplace has to pay for it. They're arbitral, they're illogical. The pensioner goes to the casino a little gambling, then goes to the shopping mall, if he comes to the city library, then he has to if he's going to take the book must have Covid's certificate, and he didn't have to have it here. What's worse is that these Covid certificates are as dangerous as they've been brought in. Dangerous. We did more than a month and a half ago, you did everything on your own, took the strings completely into your own hands and I repeat your responsibility completely. You're responsible for why he's this many dead or you're responsible for why he's not 30,000 dead because your wise conduct in these circumstances has left so many. I don't know, time will show, lines will be drawn and calculations done. So the responsibility is entirely yours. All we have left to do is appeal and make noises in the assembly and the public. We appealed to this place more than a month ago, citing not from the third hand as a representative of Bačić titles of some Australian portals, but according to The Lancet and later the Oxford research to also transfer the virus. We had tip-offs from a doctor who's unvaccinated, she's being tested, she's coming to the ward, says a colleague who's been vaccinated comes in sniffing, raining, coughing, not being tested, and he put it in the department. So both practice and science showed it. More than a month ago, we begged you at the entrance to the hospital to test everything. It took you more than a month to start this week as a pilot project. Who's responsible for everyone who died in the last month and something because there's been a break-in at the hospital via the vaccinated, which is confirmed by the director of the varazdin hospital. So Covid's confirmations are not only ineffective, illogical, discriminatory, arbitral, but have proven to be dangerous as they are because they provide false safety regarding the transmission of the virus. What's the future? What's going to happen soon? The German Chancellor Scholz said as soon as he took office, he would shorten the duration of Covid's confirmation to be vaccinated for only half a year and after half a year and the vaccinated would be considered unvaccinated. So now he speaks equally to the vaccinated and unvaccinated. Paradoxically, we may soon experience a huge increase in the number of unvaccinated because we are following this time. Someone's been vaccinated twice, someone and three may not be six and seven if they don't get a better vaccine. So, it's very fragile that line between vaccinated and unvaccinated. On the other hand, Ivana Pavić Shimetin, I don't know where Mr. Capak went missing, his pronoun yesterday's dead cold statement of Covid's confirmation after the third dose will last unlimited. On the basis of which scientific research she claims that after a third dose, a person can no longer be ill with Covid for a year or for five, or for ten, or to carry him. Or this making a commercial panic for vaccines in terms of everything I give to sell, here I promise you, and you never need this unlimited confirmation again, but it is, let's do it quick. Well, that's totally unserious. Is the same science behind Ivana Pavić Simetin and German Chancellor Scholz's adviser, who says he will shorten the duration of the confirmation to the vaccinated. This is a whole series of illogicalities and crazy things to talk about and we'll talk about. So once again I call on citizens to join the referendum initiative because this is the last attempt to create a solid, legal and legitimate basis for more effective The fight against... [[Thank you very much.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81396	Thank you, we have a few replicas first of all, the respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81397	Col. Rasudiæ, an eclative example of a broken constitution, is proof that these amendments essentially change nothing but penalties that recognise sanctions that were all illegal. So all the measures around Covid's confirmation are illegal. And that is why you well rated both vaccinated and unvaccinated all sign for a referendum when they do not want to respect the article. 17th then we fight in a referendum let the people decide. In Switzerland, there was a referendum regardless of the result. What fear the referendum, what fear the two-thirds majority? What's the reason you're afraid of the people? There's no reason. It means that the message is clear, sign everyone because this is just the beginning that awaits you, my people. They'll vaccinate you and your children, they'll give you a condition when you come out of the basement, this is the headquarters, and the covid of the certificates will do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81398	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81399	So here's when you mentioned the example of Switzerland that example showed that the referendum was no big deal. The people have confidence in you, call the referendum yourself, here we are not freezing now and collecting signatures. Call a referendum and let the people say no, you don't need two-thirds of the Parliament, we trust you with this majority of yours with Pupovec and Hrebak and beat the quants, and that's enough. Call a referendum, here's the Swiss indicator is no big deal, it doesn't hurt. Test your support in most of the citizens you're convinced you have and you're putting your electoral victory on our noses, here's a referendum. In Switzerland there was a referendum people are okay with this kind of covid certificate, all right. Of course, the difference is that in Switzerland all the time the matter is being handled transparently through parliament, two-home and this is the second referendum and citizens know that easily with 50,000 in three times the size of Croatia can question it again, so they believe the decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81400	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81401	Dear colleague Rasdic. Here are enough examples of the senselessness of the covid certificate in this way used. I'm going to list another one from my practical life, here's the other day I'm standing on Ivanjoy River to complete the ENC, I'm going into a space where there can be only one thick glass with two small slits, two officers masking up to your eyes, where your mask is, let's put the mask, where your covid certificate is, okay take out the covid certificate to supplement the ENC. Then I come to Zagreb, and we're going from Parliament to our apartment to the Blackieman, and I can barely get in there, some cough. Where's the covid certificate? Should I have that covid certificate too? I would. Then we can't infect anyone, and where everyone rides on each other, there's no need. You're doing copy-paste measures in that is the problem we're talking about. Let's do some rational measures, so it's not a test problem, let's all get tested then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81402	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81403	Dear colleague. From the beginning, therefore, from the fact that the profession has been reduced by not acting immediately under this law that we are talking about the prevention of infectious diseases, but from the fact that the process as in other European countries is not led by the Minister of Health but by the person who graduated from ONO and DSZ, therefore, pendrek, repression, control has always been the primary, not science and scientific opinion through the Notorical case of Hrbak, to the fact that in one day it is different on the Peljesk Bridge than in Sinj, etc., etc. People have lost confidence in the headquarters that runs this. And I will repeat once again, I will be our referendum initiative is a more effective joint fight against this epidemic, to bring the matter back to the Parliament, to give solid legal and legitimate foundations to this fight because whatever measures we take and the repression of people will be less and less and less listening. Our problem is that people do not respect the measures that have already been taken, and how they will respect when they have lost confidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81404	Thank you. His injury to the Rules of Procedure was raised by his colleague Šimičević. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81405	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. The 238th Honorable Representative verbally rapes us here with a referendum, and that's not the topic here today, but it's quite something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81406	My colleague Simičević that was not a replica, the referendum was discussed from the beginning whatever I thought of him, etc., so you get a warning. It goes a lot wider on the subject than it strictly says this text of the law of these few articles and I don't think it's bad. My colleague Bulj spoke of Lečevica in his own time, for example. who really had nothing to do with it, but he talked anyway, so let him talk. My friend Bull, be careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81407	You've hurt your ankle. In 238, I did not mention Lečevica, but the dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic, the Christmas dictatorship that you support and violate the Constitution, I mentioned. I can see you're going to shut me down cheerfully, so turn it off so what now,.../Speakers speak at the same time./... Come on, come on, I'll give you three seconds, come on, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81408	I don't have anything to talk to you about, and I'm giving you a warning, and that's a third, so you can't talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81409	Why the third warning? Did you give yourself a warning that you mentioned me out of context? What did you mention of me as the chairman?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81410	I said it in a positive way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81411	Oh, I'm pushing you're not in a positive sense, you're introducing a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81412	You can't discuss a fellow Bull with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81413	The dictatorship, the Christmas dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic, is this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81414	... This one's not in this speech right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Habiban, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81415	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor. Here's what you guys from the Bridge have been propagating and saying for the past few weeks, so if I get it right, you're against testing, you're against covid confirmation, you're against vaccination. So the only thing I heard from you was three weeks ago on the so-called. Ivermectin Freedom Festival you suggested and what I heard from your wife to test everyone, I mentioned in the replica today. So, Slovakia has spent it seeing what the result is, most deceased by the number of inhabitants in the world. So, please tell me what you, even if you adopt this all you say, that the Parliament here discusses daily which masks, which measures, so that's all we do, and that's what you're looking for. What exactly are you proposing in this fight against the pandemic, what are these measures? If it's not Covid's confirmation, it's not testing, it's not vaccination, it's not responding. But we didn't hear anything specifically. Tell me, at last, specifically, how would you handle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81416	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81417	Dear fellow Habiban. Everything you said was wrong. Everything. But absolutely everything. So we are not against vaccination, but we clearly say that it should be the freedom to choose each citizen with enough information. Yes, freedom exists. If you'd ever tried, you'd see how precious she is. Secondly, we have never talked about testing everyone like Slovakia, but about testing sensitive institutions where thousands of people died unnecessarily in the last month and a half since we have warned about what science has confirmed and practice. So, testing, sensitive institutions. [[Intruder: Please, let's not from the bench.]] The other thing, none of us mentioned Ivermectin, we were at a rally where someone was talking about it. That's not our attitude. So you put something in our mouth that we don't speak or support at all. We, first of all, demand that the matter be returned to the Parliament, that the two-thirds majority decide on the restriction of human rights and freedom, so that what the Parliament decides, so be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81418	Thank you very much. Comrade Habib, you're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? [[I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81419	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 238, I'll risk a warning, but I've asked a specific question and, of course, I didn't get an answer because it's a bridge group that uses unfortunately this very ugly situation to get cheap political points. So you didn't answer anything concrete. Nothing concrete, and your wife said on the radio that she was testing everyone. I can send you a video or ask her at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81420	Comrade Habian, it was a typical replica and of course you'll get a warning. What's the matter with you? [[Intruder: Art. 238.]] What's wrong with you? ... [[I'm sorry.]] Well, listen, obviously you don't hear very well when you haven't heard that. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, I heard her very well when he spoke in the replica, it wasn't now, it was in the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Uh, like this. Uh, you have a replica, colleague Rasdic? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, here you go, what's the injured Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81421	A lie has been made to offend and belittled, 238 articles. So we're clearly saying we need to test everything at the entrance of a sensitive facility. Very clear. The second thing, that decision should be returned to Parliament by two-thirds of the majority. And then let's discuss things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81422	Of course you'll get a warning. The truth or the falsehood that's being made here, I'm not the one who's going to be estimating it, is it true or false, and this was a replica, so of course, I have to give you a warning, right? This next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81423	... The possible mistakes made in the fight against the pandemic and that is nothing new, it is not some kind of specificity for the Republic of Croatia, but it is being discussed globally. [[Specially enabled.]] I think it's much more appropriate when all this ends up discussing mistakes, there must have been. Here I would somehow share two groups of opposition representatives, one group that relativises scientific achievements, what the roof expert societies say that calls for civil disobedience, which relativises on the one hand, the success of the vaccine, on the other hand, relatively relativises the effectiveness of the testing, so we heard that we only had to do quick antigen tests or high untrusted saliva tests because it hurts very much when we put a wipe of the nasofarinx in the nostril, on the other hand, there is an opposition that raises the question of who should decide on the pandemic, whether it's the Staff or it's HS. The headquarters was adopted on the basis of the legislation voted in this Assembly, the principle of effectiveness and the principle of proportionality is respected, the Head of Staff makes decisions in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the HZZZ under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it is the Government that makes decisions and, as in other countries, that decisions should be made faster and faster and faster. It's impossible to be consistent because we don't know what's going to happen in three weeks with the Omicron strain, so that story of consistency is completely, completely missed. What we can discuss is why the cleavage rate in the Republic of Croatia is 65%, why it's not 85%. Some of the explanations were, for example, high fissures in Portugal, Spain, Italy, she had a situation, say, in Madrid, an ice hall where winter sports were practiced was a morgue. There were many dead in the first wave, as well as in northern Italy, where I think it is also one of the psychological reasons because the pandemic's horror was visible, unlike some well-demanded countries, the type of Germany, are not just people from the Balkans living now in the SR of Germany and the Turks, the reason why the rate of fission is low. So the issue of trust in political institutions is also one of the issues. So when it comes to the low rate of fissure, then it's about trust in the government, trust in politics, trust in the media, and even in the health system. My colleague Mrak-Taritash said well, so the number of antivaxers is up to 10%, right? However, there are people who are confused, who are insecure and whose people like our bridge colleagues who have now started a referendum and who are giving support, public support to protesters, bring in a certain confusion to give up vaccination because the vaccination is not just an invention carried out in the Republic of Croatia, as well as a covid of certificates. We have first introduced a digital covid certificate, but try crossing across the border into any EU member state, so you will see if a covid certificate is needed or not. I haven't heard of the effectiveness of the covid certificate from either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health, nor from anyone at headquarters that he said if you have a covid certificate you won't get infected and you can't get it. My department is not an emergency department, so all those who come to the department if they're not vaccinated must come with a PCR test. Here's how long the epidemic lasts no one, we haven't had a single breach of covid, I'm not saying it can't happen tomorrow, but it's very, very, very much reducing the likelihood of transmission of the infection, and these stories we now have a tip from this one. So if you look in the public sector 14 and a half thousand doctors in the Republic of Croatia 14400 will tell you what counterpart Marić said you are inoculating and that is a basic message. I call on my colleagues in the opposition to try to focus however on all the objections they have and who can stand or do not have to focus on the content and support these amendments to the law because they need to be vaccinated because the covid certificate is effective because it needs to be tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81424	We also have on your presentation of multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So far 570,000 people have been tested in the public sector, of which 8,515 were positive. Epidemiologists as a profession have calculated that this is 8000 less severe, 400 less life-threatening in hospitals, and 80 less on the respirator and 30 less dead. Science and discipline offer us solutions, and I now ask you as a psychiatrist, how do people, and also some who sit with us here today don't hear these arguments, what is it in a human being?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81426	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81427	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, today, 62 people died in the Republic of Croatia today. These people wouldn't have all died if they had been vaccinated, they would have been much smaller. When we discuss and relativise the booster vaccine Israel has shown that the third dose is effective, of course it is not the same efficiency when it was an alpha strain and a delta strain. We don't know what's going to happen to the omicron strain, but therefore all relevant scientific research, although science is not all-powerful, so science also has its limitations and we can't look at science and what we now know as some absolute truth, so that's what makes me sad. Unfortunately, there are MPs, I thought that, that it ended this era in the last term, but unfortunately, the relativization of medical achievements and professions increases the likelihood of difficult complications and crashes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81428	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81429	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I ask you now and as a fellow physician, do you think you should have listened to the suggestions tabled by the 5 medical professions on 4.11.2021, whether they are late in their decisions, so should this still be followed? That's number one. Number two, do you think the fact that we as a health care system have been mobilized for over a year and a half still has its foothold in what we keep mentioning to you. 17. Constitution, major natural disasters, why are we actually looking for the strength of decisions through a two-thirds majority and are you actually aware and you can admit why so many dissatisfactions of citizens are partly unjust and actually a representative of the decisions of the headquarters and again why we are looking for a two-thirds majority? So, as a colleague and as a representative, I ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81430	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81431	Dear Representative Maric, I have already discussed this, so the Croatian medical chamber is starting from the perspective of the Czech organisation that defends the rights of the doctor. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been opting for the health and safety of citizens from the beginning and is trying in the best possible way to balance between the economy and between the pressure of the health system. The health system is overworked, but this struggle to be as widespread as possible is the responsibility of all of us. The government's responsibility is greatest, but it's also the responsibility of the opposition, so it's not only an opposition that throws a rock to hide or lamentate, it's also your responsibility, the responsibility of the other colleagues from the opposition who are here today clearly and loudly speaking vaccines, it contributes to being the rate of fission greater. I've already said what Montgomery said, the president of the World Doctors' Association, that only vaccinated and over-experienced can have a covid certificate. It hasn't been accepted yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81432	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81433	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81434	Dear Representative Cellic. Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81435	Your Honor, I'm not a constitutional expert, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a medic and I'm an art. Article 16 17. As much as I have understood as the trio of power is something that is enough for me to understand the situation from a legal point of view as a parliamentary representative. I'm more of a talker here about how all of us should question how to increase the rate of fissure. This situation that has now occurred after the appointment of Chancellor Olaf Scholz who actually transferred to Bundestag is one novelty. So far, the situation has been such that the Chancellor has negotiated with the heads of federal governments, but the two-thirds majority, as far as I know, is being discussed in parliaments and certain measures and there are reports as there are in us, but how many people to split because at this point, the most effective, something I want to talk about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81436	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81437	Thank you, Chairman. Well, a very nice colleague sounds when you say you want to talk because, by all the opportunities we've had today, it's obvious that HDZ is avoiding it, avoiding the conversation. So, on the one hand, you're saying that we should all think about how to achieve greater fissure, and when the opposition tells you how you're going to do it, you deny it. So why are we looking for not only a two-thirds majority when introducing individual measures but a two-thirds majority to choose a new council and a new composition of the headquarters, precisely because this existing one no longer believes. And in vain you repeat yourself, vaccinate, vaccinate, in vain you call citizens to account when you as a political party are not responsible. This confusion, this mistrust that exists in one part of our citizens, has not now been created by those politicians who are profiting from their fears, on the wave of pulsism, but by the headquarters with their inconsistencies, not convincing and unfounded measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81438	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81439	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, I disagree with you. Your every topic and every debate HDZ is guilty of everything, HDZ is a corrupt party, HDZ is a criminal organization. Okay, that's your right. The government of the Republic of Croatia has provided the earliest when this was possible enough doses of vaccine, even those who wish to be vaccinated could choose the type of vaccine that was not possible in much richer countries. I am a representative from the City of Zagreb, here I can say that the City of Zagreb significantly goes above the average of the Croatian population, among other things, because everyone is involved, so from the City Health Office, so in early November we had 8 vaccine points, which also contributed to a greater fissure. So we can discuss it one way or the other, but we're going towards the goal that I hope you agree with, which is that as many people as possible are vaccinated. Because we're going to save people's lives. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81440	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81441	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, this is a pandemic of world proportions and what ordinary people should listen to, which is a profession. So what the waist is saying today may not be good in two months or half a year. But I can't be persuaded by any politician or antivaxer that I don't vaccinate if I've listened to the profession. So we don't need politics, we just need a profession, whether we want it or not, that's the question now. Well, we're here in every way trying to blame someone for something he's not responsible for. The government tried and did everything to protect jobs, to pay people, to secure enough vaccines. We're inoculating. As much as I am a responsible member of this community so responsible and behave in that community, so I will be vaccinated on my own responsibility, and won't be told by Miro Bulj or Rasudic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81442	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the past tourist season and the successes Croatian tourism has achieved speak of how the government of the Republic of Croatia prepared itself for what was challenging at that time. I'm also saying we can't predict and we can't exactly plan what's going to happen in a month or two days. And as for experts, for me, far, far greater experts are both at Croatian and European level those who work in hospitals today, who work at the Public Health Services, compared to those who protest in St. Mark's Square on aluminium ladders and in a conscious or unconscious way send people to their death.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81444	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81445	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you are daily among healthcare professionals as well as a doctor and you yourself said that the health system is too tense because of this whole situation. And I'm asking you that we haven't introduced a covid certificate and discovered by testing it seems to me that over 8,000 people who at that point were positive that the others were undiscovered and spreading further, were passing on a covid to how many more new situations in the hospitals would be, and would we be able to do that in any way at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81446	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the covid certificates are present everywhere. We simply started the process, first in health and social care institutions where there was generally a much larger number of splits compared to the general population because they were the most sensitive places. How effective vaccines are enough to compare 1,100 deaths in elderly homes, in the second wave of 900 deaths. When they were split in the third wave, 38 just died in nursing homes. And when they talk about these relativizations in Australian magazines, I'm only going to end up saying data from the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the risk of vaccination is 8 times lower than those who haven't been vaccinated and 25 times less likely to have to go to the hospital or unfortunately die.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81448	Thank you very much. He will now speak with a respected representative, Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, good evening. Listening to all these discussions today, someone who would fall in Croatia today would not know what was going on. He would think that for absolutely everything that happened around the crown, there will still be, absolutely and only false opposition in HS and on the Croatian political scene. But let's make one little historical retrospective. When the crown started, when it appeared in Croatia, then the first laws and amendments to the legislative framework and the support of the Staff that was needed were passed in HS with 71.72% of hands in the then Assembly. So, the two-thirds majority, of which we are fleeing today because the opposition is working against the interests of Croatian citizens and those who are a potentially risky group, to infect themselves with the crown. Also, Minister Beros did not have a potential political opponent on the political scene at the time, given the popularity that man really earned by his dedicated work and by defending to the final profession. That trust didn't come overnight either. But at one point someone, whether for the sake of choice, whether or not we needed to make our own rating, had to move that controller out of the arm of the profession, and then we started having situations that allowed some events to happen, that we had different interpretations that were for self-insulation, which was not for self-insulation, that some of them had to be self-insulation, and some of them because of the tests didn't have to be self-insulation, so we had a case of events in Zadar in that tennis tournament where the photographer who took pictures of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Novak Djokovic ended up in isolation, and Prime Minister Plenkovic who was in some semi-match with Djokovic was not because he didn't have a test. So then we had a breakthrough of Covid in some retirement homes, Split, unfortunately, my Koprivnica, where it was also interpreted not to ask too much because everything is very good happening and it wouldn't be good if we were to pick it up and do it against the people. The elections have passed, some days before the election, declared victory over the pandemic and said that we were the first country to win the crown because we knew what we were going to do. We entered the tourist season, it was shown that the numbers went wrong, I remember as today because I was in self-insulation and then when I ended up some ended up in passive surveillance where as you can get out of the house, but not too much among people, and we others were in full isolation. Finally, when we got together and took away, it must have been an accident, and it turns out that all of us in opposition from that committee were self-insulated, and all of the ruling majority were in so-called. passive surveillance because at that time a decision was to be ironed out in the Assembly so that Zoom could be involved, voted and all that he was carrying. And I remember because I watched as the countries closed massively in October last year, then Minister Bozinovic said we didn't need a lockdown because we are much better at boating this crisis than the rest of the EU, so that in a month, I would dare say in total hell for both the health system and all those who have been sick. After that we waited for the vaccine, the vaccine immediately went wrong because the system broke down that the mass of those who did not need to be vaccinated across the line with the party card and today we are back where we were a year ago. We have high numbers, but now we're no longer looking for support for the opposition, but I'm looking for support for the opposition to the blind because the opposition is not rational enough to understand everything that's going on in the Staff's work and everything that's brought us the pandemic. Today we admit that over 10,000 people died, more than in the Homeland War. Now, is it the opposition or the one who declared his political needs a victory over the pandemic? When we offered to go in the direction of having so-called. The traffic lights where they will see both the incidence of both the dead and the infected, to make a decision together in the Assembly, yeah, and those figures are the closure of the cafe, and they are the closure of kindergartens, and they are the closure of schools, and this, and that, then it is said that it is politicization and that everything happens absolutely well in our government because it is important that the executive government does so. Today, Bacic spoke absolutely the opposite of what he was saying until today, and today in his debate he had several situations where he opposed himself and what he managed to say in his 15, 20 minutes and it is not disputed that the opposition is ready to talk, it is not disputed that the opposition is ready to support itself, but we would like to know where we are going. Where are we going with Covid's certificates? Is it normal for the employees of my city service to be around people because they can, but they can't be admitted to the city administration? Is it normal that we today do not know what measures will await us for Christmas and New Year's holidays and expect and all to bend to opposition after all that political which... around Covid [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's mild to say unserious. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81450	Thank you. Honorable representative Urša Raukar Gamulin will be next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81451	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The inevitable fact is that these amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases come at a time of significant polarisation of society, at a time of protest and unfortunately still too little fissure. And how did that happen? I think the answer is very clear. Because of the inconclusiveness and inconsistency of the work of this Staff. And to avoid decisions affecting human rights and freedoms being made by a two-thirds majority in the Parliament. The inconclusiveness and inconsistency of this composition of the Civil Protection Staff began with a decision on the exceptions, oh, at that time applicable measures for all citizens. This was unfortunately immediately after the first month in which we trusted them largely and in which we listened to all the recommendations and followed the epidemiological measures. The exceptions they allowed were, which were allowed, the consequences of political decisions and aimed at gaining political points, but the epidemic was not to tame political decisions. The exceptions have seriously begun to gnaw at every confidence of the Staff and, of course, citizens' trust. This government, as in others, and all governments love to boast of its successes. The current prime minister has gone so far as to declare victory over the epidemic. But the responsible government should also have the strength to face problems such as too little fissure and to see where she was wrong, to correct those mistakes, and to move on to the fight for the health of the nation. The problem of too low fissure has existed for months, the government and headquarters have only found it, but their efforts do not yield significant results. The fissure remains too low to reduce viral collapse, which is the problem of headquarters, and that is the problem of these governments, and that is their responsibility, and you need to imagine it. The issue of the epidemic cannot and must not be a matter of purely political calculations. The fight against the epidemic must be exactly the opposite, a fight without political calculations, exclusively driven by professional and scientific arguments, a fight in which there are no exceptions to the rules adopted and in which we all adhere to the same rules and all rules apply equally to all. Citizens simply have the right to be confused with contradictory information, they have the right to fear, they have the right to doubt as well. But it is the government and the headquarters that should be clear and unequivocal attitudes and decisions to be some pillar of trust for citizens as they were at the outset. Trust in the headquarters of the ruins, I am convinced, and various affairs, such as the Caucus affair, such as the affair with the lawyer Hrvoj Šipek, who told us all here in HS a lie, I will say directly, lied. And protests against epidemiological measures in one part and protests against the government, against corruption, against lies. The government defends itself by ratings, it moves around 27%, I respect it, but 27% is not enough for 80% of the cleavage, and we need it to defend ourselves against the virus. And for the high fissure needed to contain the epidemic, much more is needed, citizens need trust, trust in institutions and the system. I therefore call again on this current composition of headquarters to step down and simply open a place for new people, new experts who will regain their consistent decisions and work the necessary trust of citizens and lead us more easily in this truly fierce fight with the virus and with the epidemic. As is necessary, I consider decisions that in any way restrict human rights and freedoms to make two-thirds of the majority in the assembly because they would thus have the greatest possible democratic legitimacy and thus increase joint social responsibility and solidarity. From day to day we listen to the appeal of doctors who are at a loss of strength and I invite you all together to somehow restore community and desire for a common victory over the virus. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81452	Thank you very much. Now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81453	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, what are these good men beating you up? I've been listening to this debate all day, which, in fact, has nothing to do with what's going on in Croatia at all, or when it comes to covid, crisis and what else. - Mrs. Crescent. Rauhar, Raukar has gone and called us for some affairs, for some protests, so I would ask what kind of protests they are today all day in front of the town hall, who are these people standing outside the city's congregation from early morning to zero degrees, what they're looking for, whether they have any rights maybe or just someone, when they're protesting against HDZ, are these protests that need to be talked about, about which they should be spoken of. No representative, no representative today mentioned these people by name, no intention, nothing at all, at least out of solidarity. I also don't know why they're protesting, but probably people aren't standing in the cold just so much that they have nothing else to do but come to the city council, but to protest against HDZ, I believe that no MP would start his exposure without saying here and now against the headquarters, against the government, against Andrej Plenkovic and anyone else. Of course, in a assembly like in some political arena there will always be these double criteria, and that may be normal on one side, we are not all the same habitats, neither ideological nor any other, and that is, that's fine, but I've been listening to the debate today, and so much contradiction I've heard little where I've heard. There are constitutional experts, Miro Bulj interprets the 17th Constitution as if he had written it from his pen, as if there was no one else to interpret it better than he did. I'm listening to a gentleman, Mr. Jaksic, who tells Branko Bačić that he didn't well organize a club for the debate, so whoever sits in the assembly here at this hour, so we're still sitting, preparing for days of this debate, not to compete with you, but to talk about just two articles of the law that are changing, nothing more, two articles. One says that with the covid certificates we will go first, not from others, from ourselves, from the public administration and here to show an example. And secondly, the inspectorate will conduct surveillance and nothing else. We could end the debate, end the clubs and we're done, but no, the debate should take time. He says it's not a good slogan, it's not a good slogan for this action that we're carrying out "The vaccine, think of others", should read "The vaccine itself to protect others". So imagine that Willy Beros hanged himself in those first days when we received a vaccine inscription that would say "vaccinate yourself", the vaccine would say here he wants to protect himself, who protects us and who cares about us and who even cares about us. We're totally turning the thesis. Says Anka Mrak-Taritash, I didn't listen to headquarters, or Willie Berosh, and I didn't listen to anyone, and I was vaccinated. Great, let's go inoculate ourselves if we're going to split 80-90 or 100% of the Croatian people. Let's vaccinate them so they tell us to vaccinate, let's make it a slogan, but they won't. The two-thirds majority, so give the people, so you do politics. Some people sit here for 3-4 terms of office in HS. You really think that we could make decisions in two-thirds instead of headquarters, so please give us, so we can't, we can't agree on how long the summer or autumn break will take, not some other things. Why is that imperative for you? If there was something good, and there were great things that the headquarters suggested, and why didn't you accept them? Well, because you can't support what HDZ wants to promote. No HDZ, HDZ didn't score any political points today. Miro Bulj saved his initiative until noon to collect enough signatures and that was his only imperative in this debate and many supported him. I liked the debate of my colleague Zekanovic, who may have spoken against himself, but he talked, but many of you are silent and know that this is good and that this is going in the right direction, but it's not good because it's proposed by Willa Beroš, that's our problem, that's our problem, and you can say whatever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81454	Thank you. We have, we have more replicas, he is the first respected representative of Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81455	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, here's where we heard about, of course we're all saying it should be, but we particularly point out by the opposition MPs that the fight against the pandemic should certainly be a fight without political calculations. Unfortunately, however, we are aware that it is through this pandemic, and through these discussions, it is very political that you have pointed out this. The Mosta initiative is under way and, of course, whatever measure has now been taken, whatever law, whatever HDZ has proposed, of course they will not give up this initiative because it has one purpose to raise the visibility of the Bridge, but no one is considering how much responsibility they have. They say that only the ruling and headquarters have responsibility for inaccuracy, how many MPs with such discussions have the responsibility for insufficient vaccination?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81456	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81457	Thank you very much for this question. Today, Miro Bulj has directed such a dangerous thesis, no one has responded to it, that the headquarters will forbid people to leave the basement or that they will be able to get out of the basement only when it is ordered by the headquarters, that they will be vaccinated by children, that they will act as a hack, that they are dangerous, that they are dangerous the thesis spoken by an apropo representative of what you said to your colleagues Murganic, that they would only come to the goal they set for themselves and that they are some kind of ringleader of opposition and that the opposition is under their influence and that they want to be, to be leaders in it. This is evident from their messages today clearly, and they didn't stay here until the end of the debate together with us to share some things, they were making enough noise and shouting, they're going to come out on the front page of the portal, and that's the point of their parliamentary debate, not protecting the public from infectious diseases, so that's a secondary problem for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81458	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81459	I'll tell you who's protesting, you know who's protesting? People who are dissatisfied with the fact that HDZ has not fulfilled its pre-election promise from 2016 and introduced a parent-teacher measure in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but has done so with his friend Milan Bandic before the elections to buy votes, here. That measure cost 23 million, now it would cost 523 million. Children do not go to kindergarten, we will hear tomorrow about the importance of children in the highest possible percentage going to kindergarten and being in the education system. It's our kindergarten and school law tomorrow. And as for the situation with headquarters, we've got over 11,000 dead, we've got a small fissure and a bad perspective and we've been offering you a solution for a year and you don't want to hear it, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81460	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81461	I knew that it would be a protest for HDZ if you couldn't do anything about it. Here's an extra answer to this question of yours. HDZ, well, there is nothing without HDZ, there is nothing, so what at all, so why don't you let us manage the City of Zagreb and it would be much easier for you, you could blame us and blame us and live in the shade of the opposition and great. As for this, which one, here is the minister who was a minister a year and a half ago, what measures did you suggest that they were too much and reasoned, and that the minister and the headquarters did not accept them? I was Chief of Staff of the Osijek-Baranja County. I had a series of measures I proposed to headquarters. One part was not accepted, and one part which was in favour and for the benefit of the citizens living in that area was adopted and we did not have with this communication absolutely no problems, and I believe other headquarters in the same way, not only ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81462	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81463	Dear fellow Members, one of the measures we have been counseling all along and one of the things we have been trying to advocate all along and stressing how important it is to achieve citizens' trust and social consensus about measures, and especially about vaccinations, and one of the things we have been proposing for more than a year through conclusions, through interpretations, through speaking, through what is, that those measures, those measures that are more seriously restricting citizens' rights, therefore not any measures of headquarters, not technical measures, but those such as Covid's confirmations that have the potential to do these social scissors, to share society, to create even more space for those who profit from it through the referendum initiatives, to prevent these decisions from making under Article 17 The Constitution, to give us a social consensus by political consensus [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you keep saying no. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, fellow Bencic thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81464	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81465	I don't know what I don't know and there sure are a lot of things I don't know. One of these things is that I can't constitutionally interpret some articles, so I listen to some people who, through their practice, have had contact with it, have been sitting in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, one of them is certainly Branko Bačić. A man who, who is both president and our club, whom I trust in this sense absolutely, has made it clear to you why, in the Constitution of Article 17, they do not seek the explicits of what you are looking for. And I think that, that's what many who are dealing with the Constitution said, we've never declared what it says here in Article 17, and why we're totally insisting on these 2/3 as if when we do tomorrow and if we make a decision on 2/3 disappears from the crowns in Croatia, it won't, it's not a measure, it's just what we want politically. to shoot, and nothing important to do in preventing... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81466	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81467	Dear colleague Ivanovic is not this situation easy, at lockdown we do not want, we cannot for economic reasons, mandatory vaccination will not be the only way out are the Covid certificates. They wanted me to admit it or not Covid's certificates undermine the fundamental link between responsibility, solidarity and human rights which is crucial in governance and in the fight against such health crises. The real question is why we lost that solidarity and responsibility that we had at first. As an opposition, we supported everything the government in Ina's building in 2 days, it was no problem to collect the quorum or 2/3 of the majority to go after the common goal, all the citizens were looking at the headquarters as God, waiting for the address, sticking to the measure. Did we have to lose it on our way to get to this place today where we all say the same thing, but because of our approach to solving the problem, we got lost on the road? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81468	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81469	Here I will answer you that question, and there I will answer you very, very gladly. You know when we split up? When HDZ won the election again. When some were preparing to be the new prime ministers of the Republic of Croatia, they said they would win 65 seats, 70, 77, and then win the HDZ again. Then this same headquarters, and the same headquarters was before and after, and then that headquarters was no longer credible, and then that headquarters was the extended hand of Andrej Plenkovic, and then that headquarters started making the wrong decisions, and then we split up, because it was different that Willi Beroš would still be on all the headlines, Mrs. Markotic, Mr. Capak, when HDZ won again, and you didn't expect it to happen again and then there was a problem, and then it took two-thirds of the majority in the Croatian Assembly. We are responsible for the fight against this disease, and when we realize it, we are sitting in the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Then we'll have better results. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81470	Dear Representative Šimičević. Wait, where you run, you've done well, you've exceeded your time, you've exceeded your tirada, you've got to give your colleague Simicevic a replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81471	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I get the impression that when we enter this assembly, when the neon lights turn on, something especially happens with the opposition MPs. We should actually be here to show empathy, to talk, to talk politely and ultimately to talk about any democracy about some matter and vote. We won, we didn't steal anyone's election, but if we all thought about hospitals where sick people lie, where people lie in need, where doctors can't stand on their feet anymore, then we wouldn't really draw and consume energy like this. Instead of sending a message, vaccinate people, celebrating life, not celebrating death, because what this headquarters does, and people in health care, I just don't have a grudge for it. But what you said earlier was that we lost the election in the 7th month then we would have It was a completely different story. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81472	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81473	Thank you very much. I'm always trying to be correct, and now I'm going to be correct in answering this, this question. I respect everyone who advocates vaccination, but Mrs. Raukar, I can't, I can't look at the hatred you're having of our HDZ MPs, as if we've come from a half world, as if we don't know we're in the 21st century. Whenever someone on this side says your laugh says everything. I've never laughed at you or Sandri, who I appreciate after all as a valuable representative and you who sit in this late hour in the assembly, but I wonder where you get so much hatred for people who do this job with honor and honesty. I don't hate anyone and I'd hate myself if you hated others, and you can't think of HDZ, you can't think of these people if they're bothering you. We don't bother anyone, we're good people just maybe you need to hang out with us more and find out what kind of people we are. [[Thank you, thank you, enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81474	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81475	The 238th insult of Parliamentarians because I don't hate anyone, I find it insulting to be told that I hate them. I'm just saying the facts that bother you so you translate it into hate. I would ask you nicely, Mr. Chairman, to warn your colleague Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81476	Well, I don't think it was an injury to the Rules of Procedure either, but I understand your feelings, I won't give you a warning, but I won't even give a warning to my colleague Ivanovic. I think we should all use words, especially how we use them from time to time, and think about it from all sides. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81477	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm glad you're naked until the end of your debate. We have been listening to the same story of the opposition since the first amendments to this law, in fact, the only thing that bothers them is why we decided on the article. 16. The Constitution, but not the Art. 17. And the Constitutional Court itself said that there was no mistake, that we had two options and we chose one because it was the Constitution through us. 16. Provided by the situation we are dealing with. And that's all they argue with us about, not for fundamental reasons, not because it would have been a better split if we'd gone to art. 17, but for purely political reasons, it's not theirs, it's ours. In order for it to be your way, you have to win the election first. As for division in society, I think neither headquarters nor this government nor the ruling majority has led to division in society. than exactly the kind of debates that are.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81478	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81479	Thank you for this question, Minister Beros, as you would say. What you just said is true, absolutely and they know it well, not only do I think about you sitting here, but everything. I listened carefully on behalf of the club, which was said by academic Rainer where he listed several countries which are European havens for Croatia, where they are led by their headquarters by a major general, the general in reserve of anyone else, there is nowhere to be found what we are looking for. Why don't we look for a solution in science that science offers us in solving this pandemic, but we're looking for something that has absolutely nothing to do with anything. Other countries do not have a two-thirds majority, do not call their parliament, but are responsible to people who know what the profession and science have left to lead them into an epidemic. So isn't that the point of fighting the covida-10? But no, two-thirds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81480	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81481	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a message to Mrs. Raukar with a view that she gave us a good speech here, just put in that speech instead of a headquarters, put the city, mayor of the city of Zagreb Tomašević, and instead of measures, put an epidemiological measure on the parent-parent and all the other words are appropriate for you to understand the weight of this moment that we are in because that moment we listen to all day in front of the City Assembly, so that you feel the weight and then introduce the two-thirds majority to end the measure then, two-thirds and you will see how you will end it. Can we talk like that? Here's a nice message for you to figure out why these people are still whistled there. It's not for us, it's for you. Now, as far as this law is concerned, several important words have marked this debate, law, measure, two-thirds majority, take down headquarters, headquarters, covid certificates and referendum, I think we've been spinning around here all day. Now how this all introduces and one debate so that it doesn't be what ours on Pantovichka says on ex-terrestrial, the mambo jambo debate that then leads to what we have, and that's the noise in the canal, we don't listen, it doesn't even matter what we say, it's important how we all understand it. And all of our messages to citizens are just as important as what we're saying, and that's why debates like this are because those who say I'm for vaccination, but then what one fellow in the fus note says all the rest are clearly sending messages, not today, but the whole 10, 11 months that the vaccination takes, and that's why we have this situation. And we can't run away from that there's an opposition that wants to catch a political point in every situation, but the saddest thing is that they're going to do, unfortunately, to what's worse, to people who end up in the worst way with the death of hospitals, and that they're trying to find their own policy that they'd like to like one group that exists, and they're responding to what they're saying, but they don't understand what they're actually doing there. And that's why these terms are the two-thirds majority of what it's like to create in the House when 30, 40 MPs don't come to the vote at all, even when they're breaking down the minister can't make it to 40. How do we get to 101? Who will guarantee that they will all come here that day? And then who's going to propose measures if we stop what they're saying to headquarters and who's going to be that proponent of action? Is Mrs. Bencic coming in in the morning so fresh and the word today in Holding has no covid confirmation, let's sit here and discuss it and see if we have two-thirds. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, what are these levels of debate? Who are these people who are going to propose measures, us parliamentary representatives? Mr. Rasdić says that we have 2,700 experts who have left their comment on the bill, but that everything that sits in headquarters is not professional. These are some levels, professions, these are these, but everyone else is professional and then they're the most professional ones in the Most, they're the most professional and what did they offer to the citizens? To the next word, the referendum. Why the referendum? Is that where they found themselves, their own political agenda with which they might grow slightly in some kind of poll because they noticed that there was some group and they lie to people and they say we're against the covid certificate, and then everyone sits here with Covid's certificates, all in a row, whether they're tested, whether they're vaccinated, everyone sits down. Then they say we'll cancel all the certificates, and then we'll get out of this country if we cancel the certificates? There's nothing, there's no confirmation. Where are we going? Nowhere, in Croatia we can. But then what are we doing? What are we doing this for? What are those interests? And when it doesn't go either way, then we'll do it in two-thirds. What about who? With the Bridge? So we tried to work with them in that ordinary qualified majority, we had to chase them away. You just can't make a deal with them. And if that worked, maybe we could agree on lunch in Parliament. What's for lunch today? But there are two chefs, the chef, he says, you will, you won't, it's on the menu today. Imagine if we talked about it here in the assembly. Now these are their cools that they sell to citizens, and basically all the time and in today's bill, they're philosophizing to protect some of their political agendas, and the citizens are forcing them to sign it as a vaccine in this fight to make each of their signatures a vaccine in the fight against the coronary virus. Shame from the people they do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81482	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81483	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Boric. You've been here in the Parliament for a long time, and I'm sure you have the instinct to recognize it through debates, basically, what's going on. It's sad that someone's trying on people who died, who may even be today, while we're discussing this moment, just because we didn't, they didn't listen to science. But behind this is exactly what you've pointed out for me. If you followed Mr. Miletic's statement today, the parliamentary representative, that Facebook announcement he published, to essentially draw what Most is waiting for if it fails in the referendum initiative, and this basis they have here today, that is, this Law was a good basis for them to eventually attract a part of the people to sign their referendum initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81484	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81485	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. They're doing it out of their own pure political interest. There are no bigger videos than their video store on social networks, from here to Hollywood. They shoot and mount something every day, and they deal with it, and they're just like, "Iikes," nothing else. They really lie to people on every... the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what they do most on the ground, and there's no opponent they're not going to call and offer certain solutions, and there's no work behind it. You saw a fellow butt today. Well, the man's the mayor and the first one says I won't follow the law. And when you pass it and this law, I won't respect it because it has its own agenda. What kind of words are these, what kind of people are they? Is that Bozo Petrov with her... Where did he say he would resign if he formed power with any party? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing. Is that the bush that said it would bring some kind of anti-pedophilic law into this house? There's nothing Whatever they do, they lie and they don't, there are no acts behind them. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81486	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81487	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Today, in this several-hour debate, we have heard a lot of things and you have repeated in your debate, divisions in society,... The work of the two-thirds majority, the referendum, but I am sure that most of us in this assembly are complex so that the 654th day of the pandemic, that Covid is the confirmation, testing, adherence to epidemiological measures and vaccination, and I will still repeat vaccination the only way out of this Covid crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We heard that some were threatened by human rights, and did they think that they had exercised their moral rights? Could responsible behavior have saved any of these lives that went out? Why we underestimate the profession, why we underestimate science when it's the only way we can get out just by listening to the profession we can get out of this Covid crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81488	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81489	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, colleague Maximchuk, underestimating people until they reach the institutions themselves, to the hospital, and then there's a completely different story. That's true. We heard some fellow debates today. And they have a problem, unfortunately, and I want these colleagues to get better as soon as possible. But is that the way? Is there a way to listen from one party that's responsible, SDP? That we don't have any measure, that they have measures. And what are they saying? So those measures say, there are no measures written. Why? Because when you write something and you're a scientist behind it, you're standing. And that's what we can discuss. When you say it like this in the air, it's gone, it's lost. But write and then bring and we will discuss and it will stand as a lasting mark of your interest in this measure or yours or better measures in the fight against corruption. But they don't write it, they just say it because it suits them, politics and populism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81490	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81491	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, one conclusion and then one question. The bottom line is, there are empty chairs on the opposite side of HDZ all you want. It's actually an example of how much they're really interested in all of what's being said today, all of what's being introduced and all of what the Staff is really doing. They don't want to hear the arguments because, of course, they don't care. All those who have been commenting on the Command today are no longer here, so they do not listen to what they have been told so far. And secondly, I'm interested in something else, so if this referendum were to succeed and Covid's passports were to be abolished, how would I go to Slovenia? In Austria, what would you do in that Austria, what would you do there? Could I get into some coffee shop or what, what am I even gonna do there, I can't even get there? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81492	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81493	Thank you very much, colleague Grba-Bujevic. Look, what would you do? You wouldn't do anything, you could possibly come up there in some way, at least in these close states, if we let you go at all, if we came there, you could be on the road waiting for the way you'd go back, if they let you back. Is that it? It's the initiative that wants to abolish, say and bring down the Staff and cancel Covid's certificates. When you do, then there are no more measures in the Republic of Croatia. Then we're fighting this monster, this epidemic without any measure, and we're agreeing here two-thirds with people you can't agree with about anything. Because if we could, we'd have already agreed on a lot of other things, but there's nothing we can do about it. And it's... How did HDZ behave when it was an opposition? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was also one headquarters, there was a migrant crisis, trains were ending in Hungary, borders were closing with Serbia, things were happening. It was also led by some politicians, better, worse, etc., we never came to this level to discuss here in the assembly, to look for 2/3 of the majority, etc. We considered and offered solutions that were not accepted And they were working up there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How did the election go? We saw it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81494	Thank you. Now will be spoken by a respected representative of Rada Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81495	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers, here I have to say before I go to the point that people call me, text me and tell me so you won't vote for mandatory vaccination. So they, people don't even understand what we're discussing here today. Therefore, it is not about any mandatory vaccination and immediately to comfort or appease all people that I hope it will not be in Croatia. Since 25 February 2020, when the first case of infection in the Republic of Croatia has been reported to date, Covid has said a lot of things about the great monsters at all levels of those who are professional and educated in order to be able to speak and those to whom it is not, is not a profession or profession. Those who do not have a profession are educated through social networks and are actually called today to talk about pandemics and are louder than anything. I understand when we have 4 million menus in Croatia it's kind of normal, but today when people, people die that we have 4 million epidemiologists it's not really me, it's not clear as much as I'm trying to do. And what's actually the worst of all is the number of dead and sick of our fellow citizens, our people. Unfortunately, we have more than 3,000 new people every day, over 50 people dying, which is over 560,000 infected and over 10,000, and we have heard 11,000 dead in Croatia today. Therefore, it has taken certain steps to amend and supplement the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases under which the Civil Protection Headquarters operates and decides in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Institute and the Croatian Government under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments are proposed for the rapid implementation and implementation of the two basic principles of action and decision-making during the global highland disease-induced Covid-19. These are the principle of rapid action and the principle of proportionality, which means that the proposed measures achieve the specific legitimacy of outcomes, the protection of health and the lives of Croatian people. In order to prevent the spread of Covid, new measures have been proposed, such as evidence of vaccination, testing or disease disease in order to enter a certain area. A special security measure may be prescribed by the Minister responsible for Health at the HZJZ proposal, and when a pandemic of infectious diseases is declared the same can be done by the Centre of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Minister responsible for Health and the HZJZ. This law prescribes obligations for responsible persons in public legal bodies to ensure the implementation of the proposed measures. For non-compliance with the proposed measures, infringement measures shall also be prescribed to prevent the spread of Covida-19 and to protect people and health. Amendments to the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases through 9 articles clearly define what activities and measures are proposed to stop the spread of the pandemic Covida-19 and protect the health and lives of Croats and Croats and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments to the laws suspending certain freedoms, which is quite understandable in this pandemic, we are still the most liberal country in terms of restricting freedom and rights, and I do not understand how some people do not see it, and they are called to tell the truth about the circumstances in which we are, and not to be political rapists of everything, of their statement. I believe that since the beginning of its work, it has been a balanced measure that has allowed as much work and life in all areas of work under unnatural conditions as possible, let's just look at the rest of the countries of Europe and the world. Therefore, let us adhere to the Law on the Protection of Publishers against Infectious Diseases, and we have an excellent tool for vaccination and we make it clear to do everything, we vaccinate and pray to God for this to pass as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81496	We've got one replica, a respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81497	The honourable representative, and all the others who have said the argument here several times today that absolutely does not stand, and that is that everyone else in this way is taking steps. So do you know how measures were taken in Germany? Do you know that in Germany for 19 months there was an extraordinary state of the pandemic and that this declaration of that state of emergency was the basis for the adoption of measures in a special procedure called, watch out now, the procedure for the state of emergency where parliament in law counted under what conditions and when the government can activate what measure, very detailedly under very serious conditions, and the government still has to report every little bit of Parliament and receive their subsequent green light. And you're saying that this model that we have has other countries. They don't. It's Serbia. And thad's it. Other countries don't have that. Parliament has a role to play. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81498	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81499	Thank you, Vice President. Well, the distinguished colleagues here have already been mentioned in Article 16 and Article 17 so this is a council that has given government authority, and the government has transferred its powers to headquarters. So headquarters is a body, an expert body that can propose and take certain measures at any time. So we can differ in making decisions from some other countries, but the meaning and effect of the operations of the headquarters in this difficult pandemic was indeed timely and always made decisions in the right way. After all, we've had lockdown think or 7 or 15 days, we're the most liberal country, and in the end, because of certain economic effects, so we have to act and act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81500	Thank you very much. She will now speak to a respected representative, Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81501	And I'll ask right now, here's what we've been commenting on here. So that's just fine with you, you don't see the relationship between that liberalisation that you're boasting about and that we're 13 in the world by dead people means 100,000 people. You don't see the connection, but the connection, so it's a problem that you have liberal measures so you can't brag about it and calm down your voters that you've talked to, there won't be any mandatory vaccinations, there won't be any harder measures everything's fine, everything's fine, we're just dying like on tape. Well, that's the problem. You understand that. Branko Bačić told us here says the opposition is not unique, so it's not, absolutely not and you should notice it and I'm glad you noticed it. I don't want to be with the Most, so I guess that's clear. We're the most divided here than we've ever been on any question. And that's good, it's good that there's a small group of those who think we should liberalise these measures even more. Let's go even harder, let's turn it up to the loudest. But that's the problem that you accept from MOST that blackmail. And it's not just blackmail from MOST it's blackmail from the entrepreneurial lobbies you agreed to after the first wave, everything after the first wave didn't run well. And that's why people die. And you need MOST because it's the type of policy you're running because it's not your fault. Here, some of the riots are very loud. These people are spreading serious lies. So today is Nino Rasudiæ among other things, I think there are 1,000 of these statements, but let's say he's raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure to say that it's a lie that the vaccines can get infected 20 times less chances of being infected by unvaccinated people and carrying disease. Ten times it means ten times they have less chance of getting infected. But it didn't matter to him that he said it wrong 20 times means 10 times they do, but he's meant for him to mutilate the water, not him, the goal for him to mutilate the water, and then to get to the point that I don't really know some people who call themselves Social Democrats are saying that even the vaccinated carry the crown, we keep spinning that refrain. So I say I really call on those who think about winning elections, and really that's a very good strategy, let's all who want to drive in an alcoholic state organize into some group for their rights and freedoms because even those who are sober hiding sometimes accident. These are people who want the crown to last forever. But they are the image and opportunity of HDZ politics. It's not just about this crown and this, this crisis, for decades you've been running a policy that destroys the education system, which destroys a rational opinion, which destroys health care, health care. You direct education and education towards a self-interested individual, a selfish individual who needs to defend his rights and who needs to win all other dishes on the market, the mentality of the game. Old and powerless, so what if a few thousand more die old and powerless, it's no big deal, let's face it. Here we are today from colleagues of Zurovec we heard Sweden is the best model, you just let everyone go and they die as long as they need and then congratulate their Minister of Health, and he forgot to say that there is an 80% vaccination there, so congratulations to the Minister of Health. You responded immediately, both colleague Bačić and colleague Murganic, when you heard that someone in the opposition is looking for stronger measures. But not a lot of opposition MPs have asked for harsher measures, I must admit. Mostly it all comes down to this story of the legislative framework and I'm two-thirds of the majority, and there's a MOST that can agree with us, and I want to get as far away from MOST as possible. I want it to be clear that I demand that people protect themselves, to listen to the waist, but you need the ID of MOSTs and continue at this pace. I wanted to comment on the good. balanced health and economy, but good. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81502	Now he will speak however, however, will have a respected representative, Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Peovic, you are little I think you slept through the first morning. When you claim it's just MOST, do you follow what some clubs said this morning? Did you follow up on what some clubs said this morning? It's not just the Bridge. Did you see the protests? Were there bridges there? Are you listening to what other officials in Croatia say? It's not just the Bridge. And you spent almost five minutes here to say that the HDZ Bridge needs it. No, we don't have a problem, Bridge. We have a problem with thinking that challenges Covid's 21st century certificates, which challenge the profession, which challenges doctors, nurses, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, when not explicitly supporting vaccinations, but is added 100 times, but then such support better not to have it, it is better to remain silent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81504	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81505	Well, I got a taxicab from the Homeland Movement in the last speech, and you didn't listen to me, and you didn't listen to me from Focus, and even Bernardic, the Social Democrats, you obviously didn't listen to me, did you? This is where I apostropheed the Bridge for the briefness of the debate because it is clear that the bridge is most important on these Covid certificates, and they are also asking questions about the referendum. But why do you need the same bridge? We can expect you to join them again in some coalition, they won't be a problem with you in the coalition. Maybe some would be a problem, they wouldn't. So, I mean, it's not that, but here, we can, so we can also the Homeland Movement, we can include others in that, sovereigns, it's not a problem. I mean, there are as many of them as you want, who wants to profit on this Covid situation, but I'm saying, their goal is actually to keep it going forever, and you don't have, I mean, not even an argument in any way, on the other hand, to press you, to finally start fighting the Covid situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81506	Thank you very much. Now she will speak the respected representative Sabina Vosovac and the vice president of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Covid's certificates have been real in some countries for a year. The first one started in December 2020, Cyprus, followed by Greece, followed by Denmark, France, etc., etc. However, Covid confirms that when they were introduced to certain countries, they were actually a window into the world and a space of freedom because most of these countries were in lockdown, they were closed, they were isolated and Covid certificates were actually added value, or human rights added to those who could prove that, in some way, they were either vaccinated or they were over-infection or tested and can prove that they were negative for infection. Since we in Croatia have come to the fact that Covid's certificates have actually become a symbol of human rights abuse, it is a question for HDZ. You're not doing a good job. You come to us today with a bill of law, penalties, for decisions you've already made on your own, transparent, partial, partly, unfounded, and for that you ask us here to support and say that everything else we mention actually creates some confusion and cloudy water. We're at 6. e.g. as a Member of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has delivered an important report that is currently on Covid's certificates, it means the protection of fundamental human rights and legal implications. Speaking of human rights, the Council of Europe is a top international organisation that is currently watching over human rights and that is where certain recommendations have been made to Member States when we talk about Covid certificates, with the aim of ensuring compliance with the EU Council's standards, so some of the recommendations to the countries are as follows. That a whole series of public health measures need to be continued to keep Covid-19 under permanent control in accordance with its positive obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. Furthermore, the recommendation that vaccination should be made available to all alike, if not, there is an objective and reasonable justification which should not include the payment capacity to give priority to certain groups compared to others. Third recommendation, the availability of Covid passes based on recent negative tests is not limited to those who can pay because the tests are too expensive. Furthermore, it should be taken into account the situation of those who for health reasons cannot, either because of personal opinion or belief, refuse vaccination. Furthermore, Covid passes are available in digital format and on paper. It is necessary to ensure that every Covid Pass system has a clear basis in law. Ensure that each Covid Pass system fully complies with EU Council standards on data protection and privacy. It is necessary to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to prevent counterfeiting or other criminal abuse of Covid. Ensure that any Covid pass system or certificate is strictly restricted in application and duration in accordance with the needs of the emergency situation in public health Covid-19. These are recommendations from the Council of Europe, including the Republic of Croatia, because this is an extremely sensitive, sensitive issue because they may actually be important in enabling that one to return to the old avoidance of lockdown or exit lockdown in certain countries. However, it should be kept in mind that they can pose major challenges in terms of freedom of movement, discrimination, protection data, organised crime, or counterfeiting. What we have done in some way wrong, where I see the problem is in the way of making decisions, it's already been discussed a lot and too much in HS today, secondly, it means if this is an epidemiological measure and if we need to prevent a lot of people from gathering, collapsing, spreading the virus and putting certain people at risk, I'm asking again why Covid confirms only apply to institutions and public local and state administration, and not to cafes, restaurants, shopping centres. These are again some double and triple criteria and what is not good, to go that way, and to be accused today, along with all of this, that we want to obstruct or not to introduce order in Croatia and that we are all going through this very, very difficult situation where none of us wants to be and wants to get out of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81508	We also have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81509	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleague of the Voice, here I have kept my last line for you to see that we have these gentlemen's manners, that we are not some half world. And I would ask you something like an experienced parliamentary representative, a woman who sits here and honestly does her job, and all the time you've been here is how long I've been here for a year and a half. We have one of the most liberal measures when it comes to what's going on around the crown. We have free vaccination. We have free testing. So we're not saying that we're necessarily going to vaccinate people, which is for you, and we have a problem because of what you think is a solution. But it's too much to explain to me, not to tell me that it's because of Willie Berosh, the mistrust of headquarters, but to tell me what the solution is. I, as far as I realized now at the end would be a solution shopping centers and cafes, i.e. returning to some lock down, which would only save the situation we are in for a moment. Or it's something, something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81510	Thank you, dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81511	I am for measures to have reasonable justification, a legitimate goal and to be proportionate. And I'm not at all engrossed in this liberal, less liberal thing. They should be the same for everyone, among other things, you now have a lot of disdain, because, where the difference is, the more my virus spreads, here in the Parliament or in some local self-government unit than it does in a bar or in a restaurant. So that's not credible again. You're bringing people into doubt again. Second, is testing very accessible to everyone. Third, whether persons who prove their status through covid certificates are over, whether they are in equal status. What about those who reported this summer that they felt the symptoms that were said not to come to testing that got over the covid, have no confirmation about it, can't get confirmation of how they're going to get covid confirmation. Are they in an equal position? What about people who need to get into an institution instead of being tested, they don't have the money to pay for the test, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81512	Thank you, thank you, esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81513	Here I would warn you what counterpart Goran Ivanovic wanted to achieve here and that's all to scare us, boo, you're causing some new lock down, falling voices, we're not, we want to liberalize measures, so that's what's going on here in the assembly. Try to get as many voters as possible and flirt with those who would take a little less action. And that's what he wanted to impute you now. And there's something else I wanted to ask you, so my colleague Maric asked, so what Minister Beros said is that we balance these measures well, given the economy. An unacceptable statement, therefore, not only from this humanistic standpoint means how much a life costs, we are too poor to defend those lives. It's because 180 people on a respirator cost 5 billion, 5 million kuna a day. So we lose 5 million kunas per day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81514	Thank you, dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81515	You're absolutely right. We do not have in the budget for next year planned funds for any compensatory measures if we have to reduce movement if the situation with the number of infected gets out of control and that our health system can no longer endure it. So we don't have that. But these covid passports, i.e. covid certificates, are depicted as a crucial epidemiological measure. That's what I don't like, that hypocrisy. So if it's an epidemiological measure, if we're not going to lock down, and none of us wants to go down, we have to move, and then let's go where the population's concentration with exceptions is increased, access to health and social services, electoral rights, or public transportation that are certain essential things, then let's call things a real name and let's say that we have to stop the processes here for 14 days and provide a covid passport, and not this way bring people back to protest because it's illogical why they don't need one for the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81516	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative, Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81517	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here we are today talking about everything and everything. It is easy to discuss when there are people in the open mind, but sometimes it is difficult to discuss when people are closed to the mind and do not want to see the breadth of the debate. Minister, I'm sorry he left, the minister is a politically appointed person. The minister is primarily a politician because he implements the government's political decisions, and then he's a doctor, and if he's a doctor, he doesn't mean he's a scientist. So it's science that produces the latest achievements and it's doctors who implement what science produces. So all doctors aren't even scientists. I don't insult doctors, it's a fact. What I've been up to all along, i.e. The colleagues are moving away in the debate is the people. The people have divided into three groups. The first ones who were immediately vaccinated, others who were vaccinated after being put up with obstacles or still being vaccinated because they were tired of waiting and wanting to skip obstacles, and the third ones who do not want to be vaccinated despite everything. That's a fact. Sit outside, talk to people, and you'll understand. Today, two mantras are set up, testing, testing, testing, science, science, science. Unfortunately, I get the impression that it lends a masterstream science that follows the mainstream media that gets a lot of money for their work, and there is a science that has fallen into some other plan and becomes an unwanted science as an independent science. Testing that, it's not my problem to go get tested, but what I was talking about, and it's been thrown at me by the cube of wood and stones that should be tested and those who have been vaccinated and entered into the health system because it's proven, not in Croatia, but... He wrote, the people of Oxford wrote, Oxford is not exactly the Bosnian Nova and the Bosnian Nova diplomats that also those who have been vaccinated carry the virus. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by all means that the covid certificate can be worth as much as the test is worth and as much as they are guaranteed that this person will not be infected with the virus. There's been a lot of talk here about misleading the people by individuals. Well, dear gentlemen, individuals can't fool the people, the people can only fool the government that has media in their hands, money and everything in their hands, so they have a monopoly on misleading the people. The people saw everything that was going on, from victory, pandemics, from all the infamous things that were happening, I'm not going to list them, they've lost their confidence in politics and in headquarters and in scales, and they may even have exaggerated in that loss of trust, so we're here today where we are. When you experience symptoms, you wait for a few days, the PCR test you wait for a few days, behind the PCR test you wait a few days for your doctor to contact you, and in those few days you can get into a very difficult state and then be hospitalized because you are not treated with anything in those few days and then what happens on the covid departments happens. Unfortunately, the doctor is too small, the people are exhausted. We don't have enough because we didn't take care of them, so they went where democracy is more orderly and where it's more normal. The nurses left too. These people are not adequately rewarded for what they do and what they wear out, but unfortunately we don't talk about people dying because they're not being treated in due time, which they don't come for research, which they don't get timely therapy and we have a system breakdown in health care. That's not what we're talking about, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81518	Stay a moment, stay a moment because we have a replica of the respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81519	Dear fellow, if I may say so, you are among those who think that vaccination is not the solution to this crisis or do not believe it, you do not believe in vaccination as, as well as in this vaccine, whether covid is an effective way of fighting this coronary virus. So just to interpret, you're up for then citizens to be tested daily or more times a day. I don't know if that's the point of whether the Bridges' proposals, so they're not vaccinations, but that testing, that means, is, so here's what we're going to explain to the citizens for, which, when they go to those protests, is what they want them to do, they all want to be tested multiple times a day. So who will pay and submit the costs of such tests here's only one question for you, so you're against vaccination, but for testing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81520	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81521	Ma'am. Puljak, I didn't say one word that I was against vaccination. However, in the past discussions, I have stressed that I am not against vaccination, that I am not telling anyone not to vaccinate, that I am not denying the existence of the virus and that what you said is not true. I even have a narrow family member who's vaccinated, that was his will, my will is my will. Protests are attended by people who have been vaccinated twice and twice, so that's what people like that come to protest. People coming in who had difficulty, and I had it in my house because a close family member had been tested after symptoms, was negative, followed by a vaccination and had that night thought he was going to die. So I never said I was against vaccination or that someone wasn't being vaccinated. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated has vaccines, it's free, thank God they can be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81522	Thank you very much. She will now speak to the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Bukarica, Secretary of State. We've heard here often times, scientists are scientists, they're not scientists, they're taking measures, what does that suggest, so I'd like to talk a little bit about HZZ, see who these people are, what are they actually doing? They do vaccinations, microbiological tests, food and water testing, sanitary examinations, have a number of mental health and addiction counselling centres, proper nutrition and physical activity, run all prevention programs in the Republic of Croatia, work and run health workers' registers, ultimately deal with infectious diseases and chronic non-infectious diseases, health protection at the workplace, environmental impact on health and a number of other things. In HZZ, experts and scientists who publish scientific professional articles, analyses, discussions in periodical editions, international, national and work promotional campaigns based on which the profession protects all of us in health care as well as all citizens from developing the disease to protect us from getting sick. The HZZ employs 406 employees of which 247 VSS, 96 doctors of medicine, 24 epidemiology specialists, 7 public health specialists, 36 doctors of science, 18 masters of science, 7 professors and 4 docents. Kruno Capak is only one representative, given that the head of the facility is only one representative of science and expertise at headquarters, and behind it are all 247 professional people who have enough references in scientific journals to say that they are scientists. So that's why I think all these attacks that are now being presented here in front of all of us to say there's no science, there's no such professions are completely unargued and unfounded. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81524	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected advocate of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I agree with you in your debate you affirmed the importance of the profession, of course it does not prevent the representatives from speaking their opinion. Each of us also has a certain expertise, and I've been dealing with international relations for many years, which is why it always amazes me when I hear these ideas that some of the world's conspiracies are. And then I look at important countries that are very concerned about their population's health, and everyone's going to have to vaccinate that population. How would these countries be important if they were working against their own population? But here's my profession, international relations, you've emphasized your very profession, and I think we should insist on that, listen to exactly what experts can tell us about the measuring thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81526	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81527	I agree with my colleague Stier, this is a medical profession, but an even more specialized medical profession is just intended for epidemiologists and public health care is the one who cares about everything I just listed. These are top experts who give guidance on how we should behave. And that's why science and the profession are giving us solutions, they're offering us solutions, it's for us to just accept them normally healthy and not ask just one and the same doubts and questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81528	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81529	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, Grba Bujević, you have placed an accent on scientists, doctors of science and the importance of the profession. I'm not an immunologist, I'm not an epidemiologist, I'm not a geneticist, but you're a doctor of medicine. Tell me how you explain it and what can you tell our citizens who listen to individual doctors geneticists? So recently we have statements and small video clips that were shared by Croatian geneticist Tomislav Domazette Losa, otherwise an extraordinary professor and at the Medical Faculty, who says that vaccination is dangerous, and moreover, it's a molecular tattoo?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81530	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81531	Thank you. Yeah, I've seen this clip, my colleagues, geneticists aren't doctors of medicine, and at least they're epidemiologists. Another thing I liked was that even his colleagues from Ruger where he works as real scientists have been fenced by such statements, those people who know what they're talking about, know that's how it is. And maybe for a joke more like that, one of them just came to see me on a slide that's spinning around on social same networks while we're at them. The ambulance and driving the patient and asking the patient if you're driving me to a clinical center, and the paramedics are responding, no sir, now you need top experts to take you to Facebook comments. Here's how much we think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81532	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81533	Dear colleagues. Today, the fissure in Croatia is 55, 56 56 let's round to 57%, we wouldn't be here today if 85%, 87%. [[/Grba Bujević's incursion: 56.7.]] Who's to blame for not being 87% but is 55% an ignorant people who don't like vaccination, is it perhaps the headquarters that manages this crisis, is the government, are all governments so far 30 years that haven't educated that people, so who's to blame that we're at 57% and we're not at 87%? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81534	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81535	I'd like all my colleagues to have 85% cleavage, then I'd be sure to take that mask off for this pay phone. However, you've counted some of the actors who've been involved in all of this, and perhaps we've forgotten those of us who do, we have the right to speak publicly. A lot of trouble has been caused by various protests, various facebook experts, various people who have taken the right to interpret individual decisions instead of the professions, individual laws, individual rules, and individual models of behavior. I think there's a part of the guilt to be sought here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81536	Thank you very much. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81537	Dear Vice President, a representative of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about amendments and additions to the law that should be essentially protected I would nevertheless say to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia against infectious diseases, not the public, but the citizens of the constitutional category, it is purely as a correction, although it is not the subject of these amendments and additions, but I would also change the title I mean clean order works because I still believe that the Republic of Croatia, which is founded on civil sovereignty, although some prefer that national, but in fact through our legislative architecture, we have that part that is de facto one mixed, one mix of all that as well as all modern EU countries. So there's one thing that's important because I've quoted it in some way and the constitution, and that's by looking at what the remarks and the amendments that the colleagues in this assembly have given, the fact is that we've had a kind of restriction on freedom of movement so far. It is conditioned of course by this covid passport, green pass or what we want to call it. I personally estimate that the wider the consensus and the greater the responsibility, the easier it is for us to defend certain decisions here in the assembly. So I agree that we need to make this decision together with a two-thirds majority. Here, just discussing before the meeting of the European Affairs Committee that marked the 10th year. Since the signing of the EU agreement, I will not enter the profession, here is a colleague before me mentioned us about the covid in this pandemic talking and reading from Facebook etc., but that some other health problems the health profession itself will tell us that we are very much used so. Google doctors and that's a fact. But that confusion also alimentated part of the expert advice, or some members of the expert advice they found fit to comment on this disagreement, and of course it's as if you're throwing it away, you're throwing water at the burning gas, and that's unfortunately a fact. The fact is also what I reminded myself of, and also by talking to former President Josipovic and former Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor who often attends international meetings, and these international meetings today are very much talked about, my colleague Stier was, we are talking about post covid, so we are preparing for post covid, and we still don't know how long the covid itself will last. So I think it's good to pass a law like this. I also think he's too late, that we should have brought him before, that it's the law, that it's a commitment at least to, at least, the part that's connected to, which is related to the public sector. But what is our basic problem in this country, we have great laws, often we have great ones, the problem is implementation and the bodies that have to implement them. So as much as we're fixing this regulation, it can happen to us that we just won't, we won't, we won't follow such rules. And now the issue with these sanctions, which in the bill itself speak of sanctions that go towards a responsible person in a legal person, then we can bid on the amendments, gave that sentence too high or too low, so after the carrot we didn't have, but we crossed over, but we unfortunately went to the beating. And I see by the amendments, and I see by the amendments that this same thing is complemented by the fact that both the responsible person and not only the responsible person, but also the legal person, this one's not self-refaling, so I'm going to be, so I'm going to make a little joke like this, necessarily, but self-fecaling. For what reason? Because that's how the state will punish itself and unfortunately they'll have to punish themselves. Because who are we going to damage? We'll damage ourselves if we are, if we're a state. So I'm appealing to really enforce this law and that those penalties won't have to apply at all, but for that we have to have the credibility that we unfortunately lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81538	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Marijana Pulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81539	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. As I said here in the replica, someone has already mentioned, today we are here talking about this law, we are talking about covid certificates, about penalties for those who do not carry out checks on covid certificates in their institutions because our vaccination is 55, 57% if we circle. If the fissure was 87%, 89%, 90% wouldn't be talking about this at all today, so people would be split, there wouldn't be this many deaths, they wouldn't be afraid of the burdens in the health system, they might be afraid of maybe here's this oxid version, they'd see what, how it works, this, that, but they wouldn't have this many deaths. I'm not here right now to print, but we've all looked at that statistics from Europe that the number of deaths directly depends on the population split. And I asked here a question, here it is, here it is, I'll jump, here's the camera to see, that's, that's that graph right, so how split people are is so, if it is, the more split the fewer are dead. And I asked my colleague here who's responsible for the fact that we don't have 89-90% of the splits, but only 55-57, I keep falsifying, so 57% of the splits and so there's no answer. It's probably the opposition, it's the ignorant people, it's the wrong people, it's the wrong people, it's the wrong ones, it's them, it's them, it's just not the headquarters that's supposed to be able to properly recommunicate people, why vaccination is the biggest achievement today in medicine history, and why it's important to vaccinate, why it's important to make it easier for our healthcare professionals, doctors, why it's important to have faith in science, why it's important to trust doctors when they say that vaccination is a tool that will ensure that the health system isn't under pressure and that there's less dead. You remember the 3rd Croatian government. It was the government of national unity. The government was led by Franjo Greguric, I read it was formed under war conditions by representatives of all parliamentary parties and experts, organised defences, took care of exiles, established monetary independence and fought for Croatia's international recognition. According to data from the Homeland War, according to data collected and scientifically processed by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War until 2016, the names of 14 thousand 912 people killed on the Croatian side in the Homeland War are known. Out of that, the defense attorney is 8 thousand 262, and among the civilians 6 thousand 650 were killed. Today we have 11000 455 dead by Covid in these two years since the 3rd month of 2020. 19. Three. 2020. Plenkovic: "The fight against the crown of the virus is the biggest crisis since the Homeland War. It takes responsibility for each of us." He addressed the public by telling us that we should all be aware that the pandemic of the coronary virus is rapidly changing everyday life and that the next days, weeks, and months ahead will be difficult, but that we have to do everything to make life as few as possible. Today we have 11000 455 dead. It's very close to that number of deaths in the Homeland War, and certainly here's a lot more than the number of civilians who died in the Homeland War. Who's to blame? Last year at the 11th month, we proposed instead of this headquarters that we now have the headquarters of national unity. That's exactly how those three worked. The government in the Homeland War that we have a headquarters in which, which will include all the representatives who will be one of the headquarters of the national unity that people will ultimately believe when they say something, when some of the measures they take and that would certainly lead to us not having just 57% today but perhaps 87%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81540	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81541	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you think that people who have been vaccinated may be able to transmit the virus and that those who work in systems where the most vulnerable groups as hospitals are, nursing homes should also be tested as well as those who have not been vaccinated when entering those institutions? And are you able to accept that you may not be in all your views right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81542	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81543	Well, I don't have an opinion on who's carrying the virus or who's not carrying the virus. I'm not an epidemiologist, and I'm not the kind of profession that's going to show these transmissions now or the one that doesn't transmit the virus, or that's going to suspect science. So I believe what science says. Science today says if I say you don't trust our scientists, trust world scientists who say vaccination is the greatest achievement in medicine when and before Covid does. So believe me, if you don't want our scientists if you suspect them, if they've been contradictory so far and you may have some excuse to doubt them, believe this to the international scientific community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81544	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81545	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us first go in the verses on a personal example – three times I received the Pfizer into the shoulder vaccine that. Therefore, I have no dilemma with vaccination or with what has brought vaccination to humanity, and if someone has not said so, mandatory vaccination for certain diseases has been introduced in Croatia... Now, here we are discussing Covid's certificates briefly. [[You don't understand.]] I Covid do not view certificates as an epidemiological agent, but I experience them as a soft force, motivation or encouragement for vaccination, and I have no problem with that either. I didn't need that. A lot of people in my area didn't need that. Some in my area may be encouraged, and some will not convince them that they should be vaccinated. I can only invite once more citizens who haven't done it yet to split, and those who want to sign for the referendum have to split before they sign. Vaccinate and sign, as far as I'm concerned. As far as decision-making is concerned, I continue to believe that the Constitutional Court has failed to give certain measures of limitations, borders, instructions to the executive authorities, the Government and the Staff, and in particular the Croatian Assembly. I think that the Constitutional Court was not at the level of the task in this crisis particularly in part of these first measures when it was able to clearly distinguish with its decisions what the Staff, which the Government can, and what the Parliament can and can do with how much Parliament needs. As regards the dispute over the interpretation of Articles 16 and 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, respecting the fact that neither the judgments are manifest of fate, I would like to read Art. 16. and Art. 17. Art. 16. Freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect other people's freedoms and rights, and the legal order of public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom or right must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each individual case. I believe that the decision of the Staff, the Government or who has already made to limit the movement between the municipalities that were made in the spring and one part, I think that in the autumn there was no proportionate limitation in the individual case and that the Constitutional Court should, even if it was later, declare something that was an excess of power without the two-thirds majority of the Croatian Parliament. Art. 17. At a time of war or immediate threat and unity of the state, and of major natural disasters, for which we all agree that this case of pandemic is involved and that this addition of the Constitution is one of the kind of additional emphasis of something already written, therefore neither harm nor excessive benefit. So it is about individual freedoms and rights, decided by the Croatian Parliament by the two-thirds majority of all MPs. Yeah, not right now, I'm not reading this one any further. Therefore, in my view, an evaluation should be carried out on every level of the restriction and under which article of the Constitution falls. In my opinion, at least one measure falls under the law. 17th and I'm not one of those who thinks that once we bring something to the two-thirds majority that the government has Bianca's support, the Bianca seal of the Parliament to do whatever it wants. So, I would like as a representative in the Parliament to be willing to support certain measures, but for a certain time. So if it turns out to be repeated, we'd do it again. But within those limits that depend on the strictness of the measures and not on how we need everything now, that we should say to the two-thirds majority the state of emergency is and then it will be, it will be a Bianca seal to the government to do what it wants. No, that's not what I'm up for. I therefore make a very good distinction between what a two-thirds majority should bring. In all that was brought in, it was, in my opinion, one measure so far. The second question is whether a covid of certificates that are limited to being passed by such a majority. So is that a limitation that falls under Article? 16 or under Art. 17. I think that dilemma is completely unnecessary for me and that it would be unnecessary for me to worry about it because the Constitutional Court will say it's an article. 16. Then I'd fall out again. I respect their decisions. [[You don't understand, Intruder Reiner...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81546	We have two replicas, a respected representative of Oreshkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81547	Dear colleague Bauk, if I've got you all figured out right, we've been here all day just wasting our time. Because if, in the end, neither will the Constitutional Court judge whether something is within the reach of Article 16. or 17. but will judge as it is in accordance with the daily political needs of the HDZ, if we as parliamentary representatives cannot indicate where the two-thirds majority would be needed then the question is why we spend both taxpayers' funds and why here today we are not somewhere with our families or doing something else, smarter and more useful and fun. So I think we need to change the rhetoric on the responsibility of all state institutions starting with the Constitutional Court, so if we're sure they've failed for the first time, invite them not to do it another time. And also to point out to the parliamentary opposition and the parliamentary majority that over a two-thirds majority in some issues should not be easily crossed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81548	Thank you, thank you very much, dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81549	Okay, we're in Hall 19. Perhaps the remaining 132 spends more time with their families. So we're the fat minority in that case. Secondly, this one, I understand a part of your irony and I often use that kind of attitude-description myself, but it's up to us to point out what we think we should do, it's up to all the MPs to set themselves up by voting on what we and someone else said, and it's up to the citizens at one point when the election reviews come who was or wasn't right. Maybe one part of the citizens will support the government for this, and maybe the other part will support the opposition. And maybe some citizens won't care at all. So everyone chooses their priorities, priorities in life. And of course, for those who have been vaccinated or who have been over life, nothing will change. Those who are not will be assessed whether they will be vaccinated or who will suffer some of these minor misdemeanors that will bring them a copy of the certificate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81550	Thank you, Agent Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81551	Dear Representative Bauk, what you said a year and a half ago I suggested we were together before the SDP Bolsheviks forced us out, I suggested that we have a two-thirds majority in deciding to declare the pandemic of an elementary disaster. We suggested it together. Why, in order to include HS right now, and to remove the doubts about limiting freedom by the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms. And that's something you should have done then. It wasn't done then. And all the problems stem from the transfer of power to the Joint Chief of Staff who decided politically, which is why one part of the people does not want to vaccinate at all because they do not trust the Staff and the Government and which is de facto today when he sent this law into the procedure, he claimed to have made the pigery. The pighouse because before that de facto conditioned a covid certificate of entry into the state buildings, and now it wants to iron and correct the pig business itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81552	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81553	This part of the intra-party attitudes we'll take in the hallway. Tomorrow, the Bolsheviks will reiterate us together as you said. All right. So, what we were saying back then would certainly result in a greater confidence in the decisions of the Staff, the Government and the Parliament, a greater number of vaccinated and fewer deaths. So, the government assured us that they were at the top, and they were actually on the 3rd or 4th of the European bottom, or to say it in a sports dictionary, they wanted to be Manchester City and Liverpool, they dropped out of Watford and Southampton, and if they had listened to us, they might at least be Arsenal and Tottenham.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81554	We are now going to the final presentations and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the Honorable Representative Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81555	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I see that every time again in every debate I have to explain that I am not telling anyone not to be vaccinated, that there is no coronaryvirus, that there are no problems with the coronaryvirus, but that people don't segregate, that there are no ones who are not by someone's standards strange to the beaks, and I recommend that you all go down to heaven, among the people, where you are equal among them, where you are name and name, and not representative, not size. I talked to the students recently, what they think about this. I'll read to you what one student who's been vaccinated twice says. He says more because I had to than I wanted to, because if you weren't vaccinated, you were discriminated against and you were denied a lot of things. My opinion is that young people shouldn't be forced to do it because I've heard a lot of college people get over it, that nobody's ever done anything. Elderly and threatened to vaccinate, the vaccine came too quickly and with too little research to be ideal and safe for everyone. Here, I quote a student from a discussion with a few younger people, what they think about it. I don't get into whether they're right, they're wrong, but they're our future. Our future is also children. - Mrs. Crescent. Markotic told the truth, everyone threw trees and stones at her because of the truth. She said a lot of things she might have earned, but the truth is something behind which there's nothing. They will no longer be tested on children in Africa but tested among us. But why do we have to force something among the population that is the easiest to do so? Let's think about it. Let's think about it. I won't be long because everyone has had enough debates, think about this student who wrote, think about the new generations that need to come behind us. I'm sorry for all those who died, gave it directly or indirectly to Covid, but a lot of it is due to our poor health system that doesn't react spotlessly, in time and with the right medications that might try to reduce the problems of those who have become infected and sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81556	Now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the honourable representative of Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81557	Thank you, Chairman. Here, again, I will point out that it has been 10 years since the EU accession treaty was signed. Today someone asked me where Croatia was 10 years later. Well, in a sad place where we wouldn't be in that, not only these last 10 years, but for the last 30 years HDZ hasn't completely ruined the system, and with full right now I'm saying it here, it's what this debate has shown today. Let me just look back at what Mr. Lenart was saying before me, quoting one of our students, so I'm going to ask what has been doing all these years to our education, our education system? How much did we invest in these young people to explain at all what vaccination is for the protection of the population? No, I don't. In our education system, dear HDZs were obviously more important than any other topic. As little education as possible for the population to be chosen by the less, less educated population as possible by the worse politicians. It's all coming in one day. And how irresponsible you were about all the other parts of the health system also, today they show numbers. And this health care system, where the number of deaths stems not only from the number of newly infected from the crown itself, but also from the quality and level of health care and protection, which is from year to year, from decade to decade, worse and worse. Among other things, thanks to the incompetent, unambitious, unsuspecting HDZ ministers who have not been able to engage in reforming the health system. And when we talk about how the state functions as a system and the bodies responsible for making individual decisions, this debate also shows. When someone reads our Rules of Procedure, when they see that we have, first of all, some opening speeches by representatives' clubs, and then individual debates and a final debate on behalf of clubs, one would think that something is being discussed in this HS. No, I don't. This speaker serves to maintain a whole series of monologues after which each of us goes home with exactly the same attitudes he had at the beginning of the day. Now, that's what's wrong. No one is talking to anyone or anyone else because if you had heard anything, not just today, but during the debate and debate and debate and debate on this subject, you would have heard a whole series of good proposals coming from opposition deputies. Among other things, these were the proposals to help raise citizens' confidence in both the vaccination system and the quality of the vaccine, and to make sure that there are also side effects that the system and healthcare professionals take care of. That's the message we were supposed to send to our citizens. It should have been said that we are following solutions and the way the Crown is struggling with a much more advanced and better organized state than ours. It was necessary to show hearing about all the problems that plague our citizens, instead of all that HDZ wanted to show that the institutions were managed in the way they wanted them to be. We've got power, we've got position, we've got enough hands, and everything else is just a mere farce. Do you know what the consequence of your attitude and behavior is? Not that you're going to vote the law the way you imagined, no, the consequence is this number of daily infected, sick and dead. Because of your haughtiness, because you created resistance to all epidemiological measures by one compromised, politicised, and not the expert headquarters, one HS employee died, was also not vaccinated. So the level of your haughtiness reflects on the fates of so-called fate. small people and at the moment the entire opposition shows one level of mutual respect and similarity in the solutions they propose and that advocate when one Zekanovic tells you that vaccines protect lives you continue to be unable to listen to anyone and nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81558	The next final debate is the Green-left bloc's Green-left Club of Representatives, the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81559	Thank you. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, I tried, together with my colleague Urša Raukar, to point to a dimension that is equally important in the long term in the management of this pandemic, which is the dimension of the rule of law and the issues of protection of human rights that at the moment we limit them because there is a social necessity to limit them to really being the way our founder predicted it to be. The overall response to the pandemic in our country raises suspicions, serious doubts as to whether political elites but also the judicial ones concerned by the Constitutional Court are concerned enough and whether they understand what is the key requirement of the rule of law we have decided on, which is the requirement that at all times there is a system of verification or brakes and balances and the constitutional creator predicted it in a really good way, he predicted that we here as a legislator at the moment of emergency at the moment of the greatest impact of our society that we are who, if necessary and necessary, limit human rights in order to achieve some legitimate objective of protection, that we bring this here to the two-thirds majority, and for that the founder does not require the high criterion of Article 16. It does not ask us to prove the necessity that we could not have achieved this objective lightly, it requires us to choose what is appropriate, but it also asks us that it is on a certain deadline and asks Parliament to have responsibility for the social moment and to have a political consensus on obtaining a social consensus and that is why you reject it for a vague reason. The opposition or at least a significant part of the opposition offers you a hand in it. Why is he offering you his hand in this? It offers you a hand because we see that the lack of political consensus here has led to a social lack of consensus, and this social lack of consensus and trust is manifested by one of the lowest rates of fragmentation in the EU and one of the highest rates of mortality as a result. So, the fact that you chose the easiest way, which is Parliament will give a mandate to the government so the government will transfer it to one of its own bodies, so there is no parliamentary control and there is no debate that time has not achieved the elemental requirement, and that is at least effective because it is not even effective. You're the worst on the cleavage, you're the worst at mortality, so that claim hasn't been met either. You keep talking, insisting that you chose, you chose to go after the article. 16. you confirm what is the basis of my request for an assessment of constitutionality, which is that you consider democracy and the principle of rule of law and consider it in the context of a major democracy where most arbitration governments without any restriction and this is confirmed by your colleague Jelkovac today, I will quote it in that request because she said "and you will thus limit human rights when you win the elections", and that is not so. And you'll be able to say it exactly, so she said and you'll be able to usually make such regulations when you win the election, but we don't want to. We now want to set a rule that, when we restrict human rights to do so as the constitutional creator predicted and that respecting the principle of rule of law because believe it or not is important, it is important for future generations and future crises. The way we're acting now will be the basis for how all future governments will behave in some state of emergency. And do you want to behave like that to someone the operational body without legitimacy shall transfer the powers which [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The founding father gave it to the parliament. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81560	Following the debate, the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81561	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think in today's broad debate, clearly as the SDP Club, we've made it clear that we support vaccination, we support testing, we have no problem with Covid certificates as such. We don't use populism and politics. Our goal is to get out of the pandemic as quickly as possible. We support listening to the waist. I'm saying again, five medical associations have clearly said four more. 11 measures should be taken or adopted. You didn't listen to that. So early introduction would certainly lead to fewer, fewer deaths. They suggested this not to protect their company as a colleague had said, but to protect the entire health system and all of our citizens. You're saying we didn't give anything up in writing, so let's discuss it in Parliament. Did we specifically discuss here in the Chamber of Staff Measures that were adopted on 15. 11th about where the Covid certificate should be made? We didn't. So don't twist what we're looking for. We don't say that here we have to discuss every day's decision of the Command how much the bench space between one godmother and the other is not what we're looking for. But on key laws like this, we're asking for two-thirds of the majority precisely because this key law stems from additional decisions of the Staff that you yourself have acknowledged to reduce certain freedoms and restricting the movement of our citizens. Therefore, given the state of emergency that lasts for over a year and a half, which is why the health system is still mobilized, so you should be guided by Article 17. A constitution that clearly shows great natural disasters and then declares it 2/3 by most. Furthermore, about our proposals and the solutions that we've been making, we've made written and conclusions, and suggestions, and amendments, and all of them you've refused. The written appeals of the profession that I do not speak behind which we have also stood, oral solutions, representation issues etc. So, a lot of things you had in writing but in vain. What, we haven't been able to understand, is the problem of accepting what we say is being voted 2/3 by the majority? Here's what I've been saying in replicas. You've managed to figure out what part of the opposition he's telling you. So we have very clear views on key things. So we don't have a figure in our pocket. We've told you nicely what we support, which is why we're having a dispute, which is why we're asking for something to be brought in 2/3 of the majority. And I guess you realize after all that you've just shown me, and if you're listening outside what's going on outside of this institution why there are so many dissatisfied citizens. Of course there are those who have been seduced, and anti-vaxers, and populists, etc. But there are people who are simply confused and gunned down by certain inconsistencies and unequal decisions of the Staff that we rightly criticized here, or the whole profession. Furthermore, if you had listened to us earlier about all this that we're talking about, I guarantee there wouldn't be so much dissatisfaction out there and protests, signing a referendum, etc. Only that you listened to us in due time, and we have been talking about it for a long time. Next thing. How do you know with certainty what the Constitutional Court will say? So there's a lot of people talking to the Constitutional Court, right? The attorney general's gun, people write. Some are completely wrong, but some have well-founded questions and misunderstandings. How do you know that's exactly what the Constitutional Court is going to do? Furthermore, if all of this had been better communicated together, there wouldn't have been this much uncertainty and dissatisfaction. Here's a quote from my colleague, Rado Simičević, whom I really appreciate. He said himself that people don't even understand what we're discussing here. Is that what he said? So he said what his friends were writing to him, etc. Well, the point is, people aren't informed enough. Therefore, you need to provide timely, complete and clear information on any decision and measure aimed at countering an epidemic which, in particular, affects citizens' rights. This is the only way to build public trust in the purpose of decisions taken and ensure their effective application and, of course, less dissatisfaction. And finally. As a club, we have submitted an amendment relating to the addresses that this law touches and conclusion, so I hope that you will accept what we have proposed to you in the spirit of this common desire to get out of the pandemic as soon as possible and that we have all the decisions we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81562	And the final debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Finally, on behalf of the club, I'm going to say one more thing in addition to what I said today. We've been discussing it all day from one part of the parties to which I can say more I think it takes 2/3 of most of the laws. We first encountered an epidemic like this, and the law was passed years ago. Now, if by any chance when we passed that law before the crisis, we'd written down all the measures we'd put in place last April, and I'd remind you that in April we were talking about isolation, we'd introduced the notion of isolation into measures, isolation in the apartment. We've introduced another measure of a list of infectious diseases. Until then, there was no disease, and we authorized the sanitary inspector to respond and monitor. So that was the first amendment to the law. The second amendment to the law was in December, at the end of last year, then we prescribed proper masking, then we prescribed the number of persons who could be in private gatherings and prescribed penalties. Now, if I were to ask you to remember, it's very important that three years ago, when the crowns were gone, we immediately entered those measures into the law, and we immediately signed the measures into law, and we didn't have to change the law through this epidemic, what would you decide by a two-thirds majority, colleague Maric? You say nice here, you say nice that you wouldn't prescribe implementing measures. That's what you just said. Now, when you're doing that, and that's the goal, it seems to me, maybe not yours, I really appreciate when you're talking about this subject and health care, but if you weren't prescribing the implementing measures, but you'd change the law by two-thirds of the way, to you as a doctor, now I'm asking you to see how much you're in the process, that a year ago before the pandemic started, all of these measures that we've changed over the past year when, this third time, we've changed the law, we've had inscribed in the normative part of the law, what would you decide with a two-thirds majority? About what? And we prescribed a year and a half ago, 10 years ago, when we passed the law, a series of measures we use today, a series of measures because the waist at that level was your waist, that she knew what infectious diseases were and how to defend them. After all, in my Dubrovnik, 1377, she introduced a quarantine on July 3rd. Therefore, the profession knew and had experience. It falls into the water of your calling to the two-thirds majority just for... That would obviously be where the implementing measures would be taken, and then Mrs. Poirot would. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maric, this is what I am talking to you about, indeed, in a bizarre situation, so that the Parliament will decide for two-thirds of the majority the distances of the females on the beach, etc., etc. Because, because you would listen to me well, because a law that would have been in force, if by any chance what we have now changed, had already existed in the law and you had nothing to decide by two-thirds of the majority. It's completely, completely clear to you. Therefore, I appreciate what you want, but I am convinced that this way we have chosen, above all he is absolutely in accordance with the law, the Constitution and the other thing, he reacts quickly. He reacts quickly and these measures are both good and we balance with them in a certain way between, above all, preserving health, and on the other hand, we clearly want the state not to enter the lockdown. And that's what these measures have accomplished. And this amendment of the law sanctioning holders of certain responsibilities and responsible jobs in Croatia who are the person responsible for the law enforcement of this law, that if they violate the law, they are sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81564	... Are you the first? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81565	Thank you very much. Art. 238. Dear colleague Bačić, since I have had the honor, is it that, in your final address, you are speaking to me, I thank you for this honor and thank you for esteeming me. Well, that's exactly why I have to show you that you're completely twisting what we're telling you. You're completely twisting. So headquarters has a certain possibility, we've all quoted articles and this 47th, this one, has a certain possibility for certain decisions. But for these key laws, not how much distance there will be between crying dogs, so we're not discussing it, nor are we looking for you, so the key law we're looking for is a two-thirds majority. but not bianko, not bianko [[Intruder: Time.]] but for a certain time. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81566	This was a pure violation of the Rules of Procedure. Okay, you have a third warning. Long live the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81567	Thank you. Here, I'll take my chances. Dear colleague Bacic, I'm offended by the article. 238 The fact that you do not for the first time in this Chamber prejudge the decisions of the Constitutional Court, you speak with great certainty that, although it is different situations and different measures and this measure is in accordance with the Constitution, and at the same time we all know that you have boasted on Facebook, that you are President of the Constitutional Court a friend who gave you the opportunity to most [[Intruder: Time.]] decide whether to decide or decide with the opposition. [[Intruder: Time.]] Awesome. Awesome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81568	A third warning to you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81569	Thank you. In 238, dear colleague Bačić, you insult all of us on this side, and then you insult me personally. Requesting a two-thirds majority, we have repeated 1,000 times is a requirement that the adoption of measures would have greater democratic strength, and thus a greater social impact, and thus a greater social impact, And thus, the greater fissure that is ours all. [[Intruder: Time.]] in the interest. [[Intruder: Time.]] I also thank you for your warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81570	Okay, you said it yourself, a warning. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238 and Mrs. and Mrs. They insult me and degrade me. Ma'am. Bencice and ma'am. Raukar, I have very many friends and not only in the Constitutional Court and very much here my colleagues on the left have also very good friends in the Constitutional Court. So you know, very good friends. This means nothing, neither will they affect the work nor will these judges influence the work of my club, nor will this club affect the work of the Constitutional Court. They're people with a name and a last name. And you didn't answer on the basis of the matter, and that's that the law before this called the Parliament prescribed measures, we wouldn't be able to decide anything because there wouldn't be a need when we authorized the Chief of Staff that what this Parliament had adopted and prescribed could be activated because it's their business, not mine or yours. Because we would never agree and neither am I, nor you in what is the profession of an epidemiologist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81572	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The last item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 217 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81748	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for staying and for this point that is before us, so the proposal for a law in the first reading on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. I will try to be summed up, concise and so understandable perhaps even to the general public since this law regarding a small part of the professional part of Croatia, or those who are actually dealing with it. Therefore, the adoption before all of this Act is proposed primarily for the transposition of a directive aimed at creating an effective framework for covered bonds and harmonising the currently fragmented market for covered bonds, which should actually contribute to the development of covered bonds throughout the European Union, especially in countries such as Croatia where they are not present. Otherwise, covered bonds are a debt instrument issued by credit institutions and characterised by double investor protection in covered bonds themselves. So that double protection is just because the bonds are secured... in the case of collateral or assets issued by the issuer himself, from which the issuers of covered bonds have the right to collect their claims. [[You don't understand.]] So it's a kind of collateral to what the bank has placed on the citizens' land is about housing loans, but it can also be bonds, it can even be loans that are related to we have such examples in the world and let's say planes, ships, etc. But 90% is about housing loans as high-security placements. But additionally, it's the first part of protection, the additional credit institution is responsible for its assets for paying off covered bonds. What does that mean? This means that those investors in this way are absolutely with the safest product to place or finance their assets, to place their funds or to finance those credit institutions. So far, we have not had an appropriate legislative and regulatory framework that would allow these covered bonds to be issued and we have started over the last year to initiate activities to present this law here today to you and of course... that Directive. [[You don't understand.]] In addition to this double protection relating to the coverage set, it is the single set of those placements, all which guarantees the return of the bonds issued and the funds collected. It's actually called a double-protection mechanism. What is important here to say that given other types of funding sources of the banks themselves, such as securities secured by assets, it is the fact that credit institutions retain risks in their balance sheets and investors have claims directly from the credit institution. So, above all, this allows credit institutions to raise funds especially during financial crises. Today, thank God is not, but we had it more than 10 years ago, and then it proved to be an absolutely excellent instrument when it was given opportunities on the European market first. As far as the consequences are concerned, I will only briefly list them, so we talked about a stable financing of credit institutions in which it is concerned. It also enables the joint issue of covered bonds of several credit institutions of smaller and even some that are not in the sense of collateral or assets entering that coverage set. There is a responsible lending being initiated because this way tends, it absolutely has as planned by this proposal double two steps in fact. The first is that you have to apply for prior consent to the business plan, so what you want with those money when you get them by issuing bonds to the CNB. Once the CNBs approve this, then the HANFA approves the programme itself or the way in which these funds are collected. We're talking about high credit and liquid investment. When we talk about, say, our pension funds that invest in those, and we don't care what our pensions and our second pillars do, where our pensions go. Surely this represents one of the safest but also the most liquid because it guarantees a certain portion and makes the investments themselves. As a result, it increases the availability of housing financing for private citizens. Why? Because I mentioned that most, 90% are housing loans. In order for banks to go to this ability to raise funds, of course, their aim is to have as many of these housing loans as possible in their business policies as possible to increase the possibility of either interest or the very conditions for obtaining them. It is also a cost-effective source of foreign investment. We had an example this year of Erste Bank, which I think 400 million issued bonds, although not covered, in order to meet its regulatory requirements and the vast majority, is almost abroad. And, of course, that's what we're talking about as one consequence, the development of the capital market itself. Why is that even more safe? What happened when we look at the crisis and what is the common denominator of all of this, how many times I come here before you, propose and expose both certain and directives and regulations, is always going in two directions, one is increasing the possibility of funding, liberating or liberating financial resources with a parallel rise in the level of security. This is foreseen by this proposal in the first reading to increase the level of collateralisation of 5% as well as the obligation to maintain the liquidity protection layer in order to make the coverage set, meaning what we guarantee the bonds we issued, we always have liquid and funds to pay off the expected outflows over the next 180 days. Finally, in order to protect the additional security of such bonds, we have even foreseen their championship in the event of an attack or liquidation of the credit institution itself, where they have the right to participate in the payment of certain other assets or assets of the bank. Furthermore, I have mentioned here, and I will only conclude that this way is being arranged and the supervision itself, so all the provisions of the transitional, infringement provisions that are bound and to the supervisor of the set for coverage in the case or liquidation, or in the case of the issue itself and, of course, all previous consents that I have already stated. And just for the end, clean information regarding banks operating on the Croatian market, they are already absolutely using in their queens, i.e. the European market, so the UniCredit Group over 64 billion, Intesa Sanpalo 74 billion, Erste 17.6 or almost 20 billion, Raiffeisen slightly less than 3, etc. So it's something that's been recognized and it's something that we're thereby allowing to part of it, part of it and collect and go through our market, our domestic capital market. Here, I thank you for your attention and remain free for questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81749	Here, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81750	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. You said there was no legislative and regulatory framework in the Republic of Croatia that would allow the issue of covered bonds. Also, you said that issuing covered, and investing covered bonds were actually a secure financial instrument. I want to know what can be expected from the economic aspect of the issue of the future of these covered bonds, or what kind of benefits will they bring to the economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81751	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81752	Thank you. Absolutely a question, it is one of the intensities of the Commission itself, and this directive, too, is to allow for a greater collection of funds, and a larger collection of funds means a higher placement of the same ones because this is the way banks function so that they can invest in the economy as well. So with this if, in the years that come, we don't have this kind of money that's currently on the market, this is an excellent means of financing credit institutions with which they can further place it. Does loans for citizens, housing loans, do they go into the economy because the offer of money creates the price of money because when a bit of money goes up the price, the price of money is interest and it provides and further lower interest both to the economy and to the citizens, in particular... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81753	Next replica, respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81754	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear that the interest in this topic is very small, but little for the public, we have to say that actually covered bonds have a long tradition in organised EU countries, so Denmark, Germany, Spain, France, Italy, Luxembourg and Sweden have exactly that way a source of cheap and long-term financing for banks. In this way, they help finance mortgages and loans to the public sector and ensure a high level of safety for investors. It's exactly what you've listed. So, high potential, double security and the possibility of placements that can really then invest one credit activity as high as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81755	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81756	Here, thank you. So I can only complete your exposure. Absolutely it is also this shape is a slightly newer form on the financial market, although in the 19th and 20th centuries above all Germany had similar financing instruments as concepts of modern mortgage banking, but many countries have just introduced a market for covered bonds from 2004 to 2008. So it wasn't so much in the future, this model in the distant past, that we're coughing now I don't know how much for where, is it? So, I think what's important is that it was an asset that was absolutely the only market for financial resources available during the crisis, as I said, and it provided many publishers with exactly the liquidity that was needed at the time, and now we're doing this all the time, we hope it doesn't happen, but to be ready if there is a new crisis. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81757	Okay. I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first was registered on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Anton Kliman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's who we stayed for this debate, after a full day's crackdown on both laws and laws, so that's what we discussed earlier, I think there'll be a little more people left at this last point, but here's what it is. The HDZ Club will definitely support this bill first reading. So what the Secretary of State said is therefore one law that regulates lending by double bonding, so that banks and financial institutions can reach fresh quality capital and continue their activities on the financial market of the countries where they operate. It's one of the new ones with us and the need to regulate absolutely these activities. Therefore, this Directive has been in place since 2019. 2162 aimed at creating an effective framework for covered bonds at European Union level and harmonising the currently fragmented bond market, which should contribute to the development of covered bonds across the European Union. In particular, in Member States where there is currently no market covered by the further exploitation of the capacity of credit institutions to support the real economy as well as the availability of more secure and effective funding instruments by credit institutions. Therefore, covered bonds are debt instruments issued by credit institutions and which are secured by a separate set of assets or by a coverage set to which investors in covered bonds have a direct right as privileged creditors. The investor in covered bonds shall at the same time have the right to demand from a credit institution which is the issuer of covered bonds as creditors in the ordinary procedure. Such double demand relating to the coverage set and the issuer is called a double protection mechanism. The covered bonds are an important and effective source of funding for credit institutions which enables credit institutions to grant not only larger but also safer loans, which is one of the reasons why covered bonds have achieved good results during the financial crisis compared to other financing instruments. Covered bonds played a key role in the financing of credit institutions during the global financial crisis as they maintained a high level of security and liquidity. The effective framework for covered bonds at European Union level will improve their use as a stable and cost-effective source of financing for credit institutions, especially in the less developed markets, and will result in greater and safer investment opportunities to preserve financial stability. According to this proposal, covered bonds can only be issued by a credit institution based in the Republic of Croatia that has received the approval of covered bond schemes from the HANFA under which covered bonds are issued. One of the most important features of covered bonds is the double protection mechanism, the bill provides for double protection of investors in covered bonds in such a way that the issuer is responsible for its assets for the payment of covered bonds and covered bonds are secured by a set of coverage or assets in the form of loans provided by the issuer, from which investors in covered bonds have the right to collect their claims. Furthermore, the issuer is obliged to ensure that covered bonds are at all times secured by assets that are acceptable as covered bonds. It's about high quality assets that usually make up loans that are secured by housing loans. The assets shall be eligible as cover for covered bonds, shall be separated from other assets entered in the coverage register and shall thus be legally binding and enforceable from all other assets of the issuer and shall not be carried out on them, nor shall they be part of the liquidating mass of the issuer until all investor claims in covered bonds and other contractual parties under the derivative contract are settled. In the case of recovery or forced liquidation of issuers, investors in covered bonds shall not have the right to early repayment or demand of investors in covered maturity bonds in accordance with the agreed deadlines and shall be paid out of the coverage set. The draft law provides for the possibility of joint financing. Small credit institutions face difficulties in issuing covered bonds because setting up a covered bond programme often involves more initial costs. In the markets of covered bonds, it is particularly important and liquidity which is largely determined by the volume of outstanding liabilities arising from the bonds. A joint financing by two or more credit institutions allows smaller credit institutions to issue covered bonds in such a way that several credit institutions combine assets for cover as assets for covered bonds while the issuer is one credit institution. The draft law provides for the appointment of a supervisor of a coverage set which can only be appointed as a person entered in the register of the Croatian Auditing Chamber and which must be separate and independent from the issuers and auditors of the issuers. In view of the importance of the supervisor of the set for covering the draft law, it sets out in detail the conditions for its appointment, the procedure for appointment, as well as its rights and powers. It shall also be prescribed to maintain the coverage set in such a way that all liabilities covered by covered bonds must be covered by the claims arising from the assets included in the coverage set. In relation to maturity, covered bonds may be issued as covered bonds with a strict maturity or as covered bonds with an extension of maturity in the event of forced liquidation or recovery of issuers. HANFA is the competent authority to monitor the application of the provisions of the Law proposal and the body responsible for implementing public oversight of covered bonds programmes ensuring compliance with the requirements relating to the issue of covered bonds and their enforcement. The credit institution which intends to issue covered bonds shall submit a request to the Croatian National Bank for prior consent to approve a business plan which regulates and determines the issue of covered bonds and, after obtaining prior consent, the credit institution is obliged to submit a request to the HANFA for approval of the covered bond programme. In the case of forced liquidation of the issuer in order to further protect the interest of investors in covered bonds, a special manager of the coverage set shall be appointed. The draft law provides for administrative sanctions that HANFA may impose on the issuer and other supervisory entities, which are fines, periodic penalty and warning. Finally, the introduction of covered bonds in the Republic of Croatia will have a positive impact on strengthening the overall domestic capital market. Credit institutions will provide alternative funding choices and provide investors with additional investment opportunities. The bond covered will thus create new opportunities in the Republic of Croatia that have not been available so far since this bill establishes a national regulatory framework for covered bonds that will be harmonised at EU level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81759	Final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81760	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Government's proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. We have heard the position of the HDZ Representatives Club and without intending to repeat everything already said in connection with this Bill proposal, I think it is important to point out once again that these are covered bonds. It is therefore the debt instruments of the medium and long-term handles issued by credit institutions and which are secured by the securitised assets to which investors of covered bonds have a direct right as privileged creditors. In addition, credit institutions therefore have the possibility to issue covered bonds with a strict maturity or to extend the maturity period in the event of a forced liquidation or recovery procedure. Since the Republic of Croatia does not have an appropriate legislative regulatory framework that would allow the issue of covered bonds, we, in order to take over the legal property of the EU and this Bill proposal, are transposing the stated Directive into our legal order, hence 2162 of 2019, and thus is for the first time editing the legal framework for the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. One of the reasons why covered bonds are a secure financial instrument refers to assets that are legally divided from other assets of the issuers of covered bonds and may not be part of the liquidating mass of the issuers or may be subject to the intention of other issuers. This property shall be entered in the register of the set for cover, and the authorisation to register and delete from the register shall be carried out by the supervisor of the assembly. In addition, as another reason why covered bonds are a secure instrument is a special public supervision of their issue, and the competent authority for monitoring their issue is the HANFA. This proposal provides key advantages for the economy in terms of responsible lending, high credit and liquid investment, ensuring availability of housing financing, a viable source of foreign investment, as well as the development of the local capital market. As I said, without intending to repeat everything that has already been said, in the end, and it is already said, that the HDZ Club will support this Government proposal for a bill on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-09-0.u81761	Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Secretary of State. Tomorrow morning we continue at 9:30, with the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education, second reading, P.Z. No. 168. Here's a nice evening. Session interrupted at 18.50 hours. This is how I announced, in accordance with Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 9th session agenda with 5 new points. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure and Article 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted in accordance with EU documents if requested by the applicant and not voted on. This is point 2 of the proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2020/1503 on European common funding service providers with a final draft law, P.Z.E. Number 239. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There were no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda, and I note that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 9th session.
