ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-0.u27168	We are now going to the proposal for a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The promoter is a government. We will vote today on the proposal for this decision on the basis of the conclusions of the HS adopted at the 5th extraordinary session of 18 December 2020. I remind you that the amendment is not accepted on this occasion, nor is the conclusion of the Croatian Sovereign Club which has been submitted to the motion for a decision. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. On the basis of Art. A debate was held at a session held Wednesday in 199. Now I'm voting on the amendments to the government, please let's vote. Who's in? I'm sorry, we're gonna stop the vote now because my colleague Zekanovic called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-0.u27169	Dear President HS, I am wasting a break in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the proposed amendment. I must point out here that with the IGP declaration, nothing changes in this way, and I hope that the Croatian public, since we discussed this here for almost a month at the end, realizes that tonight, as in the evening and the day before yesterday, the Italian chariots will be roaming on the Croatian bottom, or on the Croatian part of the IGP. The only way to protect the Croatian sea from Italian fishermen is to protect the area in accordance with the European Commission's decision. However, given one non-supervising policy by Andrej Plenkovic and the government of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately it will not come. We currently have an ideal situation to force Italy and force other EU members to protect the Croatian part of the IGP, but this will not happen. I urge the Croatian public to put pressure on the government of Andrej Plenkovic and that the key strategic interest of the Croatian state is achieved here. I will repeat, it is not about protecting the Croatian part of the Adriatic, it is not about extending Croatia's sovereignty to 20 and several thousand km2 but about, once again, the biggest deception of the Croatian public directed by the current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-0.u27170	My colleague Zekanovic, I formally approve of the break, but I will appeal to the article. 293.b., so we'll move on immediately, so I'll put the amendments to the government to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 139 votes in favour of the government's accepted amendment unanimously, and it becomes an integral part of the decision to declare the Republic of Croatia's IGP in the Adriatic Sea. I am now voting on the decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 141 votes were in favour, so we unanimously made a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea.
