ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57733	Thank you very much. Since you're uniting the points either I suggest on behalf of the Bridge Club on behalf of the club the debate lasts longer, so we have 10 minutes We want 20? [[/Break president: 15, 15.]] You got it, okay. [[Attack president: 15, it's full 20.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57734	15 minutes, thank you. Comrade Kristo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57735	Mr. Jandrokovic, I urge you to transfer the last item of the agenda to another day. Discussing the whole day about the state budget, and then after that in the late evening or late nights to discuss the confidence of Minister Maric is at least the rape of democracy, but also the humiliation of HS. You've turned HS into Croatian Government's office [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] and you don't have permission to do that. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Kristo.]] Let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57736	No, no, no, no, you're supposed to now, I expected you to say something about uniting these three points. I let you say your own thought, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly to determine the dynamics of the debate, so today as a second point after this three unification will be the subject you speak of. Thank you very much. Now we move on, so this is what we agreed to do then we're going with a united discussion of the three points of the first one that was announced. We are now going to a free debate, first in line, colleague Marin Miletic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57786	Dear President of HS Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, respected colleagues and colleagues and Croatian peoples. In his column, Dežulović wrote about Vukovar, the Vukovar sacrifice and the marking of Vukovar, it's actually hard to find words when a man reads such writing without having a stomachache, not having a heartache, and actually not wondering why any such writing at all. It hurt most of us Croats hard, it hurt our Vukovars and Croatian defenders hard. To present to the public what happened, mocking the suffering of Vukovar and those who played the sanctity of Vukovar, Dežulovic sees the reasons for emigration in the marking of the victim of Vukovar, in fact he showed how narrowly the exclusive group of people who today, in independent free Croatia, are bothered by everything that has to do with God, Church and Homeland, in Croatia who made it possible for us and for the victim of Vukovar some Dežulovic can urinate in the sanctity of Vukovar while in Djulovic's loud suffering of Yugoslavia for such urination by another Tito and the party would serve on a naked island if he had luck before that he would not end up in a cave. Personally, I am not in favour of any ban, Croatian defenders have fought for freedom so that in that freedom someone can spit on our greatest sanctities because it is democracy too. But we also need to repeat and explain to the Croatian public, in Yugoslavia, who violated all human rights that someone like Dezulovic so publicly spat on another Tito, the party, the folk heroes would be happy, happy that he ended up only in prison. Imagine in some parallel universe what would happen if such an author wrote in such a text instead of a Vukovar by Jasenovac or not by God Auschwitz? He would be convicted of all of the somewhat more serious institutions and persons, and likely after that he could only write under a pseudonym in "Blue Ownership". As he wrote on Twitter pastor Grlj, I imagine the '75th and the marking of the sad anniversary "Lipa Remembers" and some pearl that writes the column is... you Lipa, displaced, empty, without perspective because no one raises the apple plantation in Lipa. No, some people suffered there, died, the village burned down, and that's why you don't write anything, says Pastor Grill. I am not in favour of the bans that some advocate, nor am I with a kensel culture that would boycott the media that publishes such texts, but I am in favour of criticizing such writing from those whom Croatia is at heart and heart. If some have betrayed Vukovar and Croatia, if some use it for their petty and party interests, it does not mean that Vukovar is not a world and special to our entire Croatian people, but it means that nothing, nothing, is the ones who have prostituted the greatest saints such as Vukovar. So they don't move people out of the cities where Vukovar and our sanctity of the Homeland War are marked, thousands of our young families have left Croatia because corruption and nepotism are stifled by corruption and nepotism because the atmosphere is not good today in which we live, people leave cities without knowing how to fight a system that pushes only their likes and not capable. Our politicians, I must say, we see among them here is Minister Banozic, who has not worked anywhere, his whole life has not worked anywhere, but in the city, in the county, in the ministry and now he is the defence minister. So people are moving us because these ladders that should somehow be natural to climb after our success, to achieve our ideals, are easier to cross their talents if you have that card party. It's not good for anyone. They don't move people out of Rijeka because the previous mayor tied a red star to a river skyscraper. They're moving out because the new mayor Filipovic doesn't have a new rhythm, but he hasn't devoted more than six months to a single session of the city council to reforms, not a single policy of the local SDP, so they're moving people out of my river and it's the most evicted people from Rijeka of all cities. It's the same message for those who are not proud, so they don't want to hear it. So people are being slaughtered by Rome's Bugatti, and in fact they're the Yugo 45 themselves. Many nations of the world take care of their sanctity, let's look at the proud Poles, let's see the proud Americans treat their veterans. If it hadn't been for Vukovar or Dežulović, he wouldn't have been able to write this anyway, and not only could Dežulović write this in free Croatia, but imagine this Croatian public having his writing financed by Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57787	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague, Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57788	In 238, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleagues from MOST just to say that Mr. Dežulović and such scum can't offend the Vukovar defenders, we're used to them, so we threw them into Slavonic mud in '91. The years of such Yugoslavs and those of others who sit behind me. So they can't insult us. I'm more offended by ours, like a colleague here on the left who allows such things. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57789	My colleague Mlinarić, you know that you have misused the Rules of Procedure, and you have been warned. Thank you very much. And we're going to the last debate today, dear colleague Kekin on behalf of the Green-Left Blocks Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57853	The Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. These days in Glasgow, one of the most important global meetings that should set out higher ambition and commitment for all countries in reducing emissions and preventing the worst climate collapse scenarios. And yet today, in these 12 speeches and attitudes, we have not heard a word about this meeting, and we should have. By the end of the century, we are expected to see a rise in sea levels of as much as 30 to 60 cm. The first to hit the sea level because of its geographical location is the Neretva Valley, and besides the Neretva Valley, there are also low islands and many of our coastal cities. The rise in sea level will lead to the intruding of salt water, the change of eco-systems, the fragmentation of species, the resulting enormous damage to agriculture, the resulting enormous damage to the economy, and, of course, after that, we all know what is coming, and that is the migration of the population that is historically living in this area. Climate change, apart from leading to a rise in sea level, will cause us to feel and lead to extreme weather conditions, primarily floods, but also extreme temperatures. Extreme heat will lead to warmer seas, changes in the marine eco system, spread of harmful algae on the coastal sea. In addition, increased temperatures increase the risk of mosquitoes rising, we also feel this, from a tropical, therefore more dangerous species of mosquitoes with any further health implications. We're just living in a time where we feel the health implications of human intrusion in nature. Everything mentioned other than this raises the question of the tourism we know, and then the budget. In addition, I would like to point out that the consequences of climate change are also disproportionately and unfairly affected by older, sick and poor people who are at increased risk of health because of their already impaired health, but also in poverty without adequate possibility of being protected from heat strikes. So, from all I've said, it's clear that the issue of climate needs and issues, changes, and the question of adapting to climate change, or the question of easing their adverse consequences, is a priority political issue, and yet I repeat, according to the debates in this assembly, it would never be said that it is. Therefore, we point out in front of the Green-Left Block Club that it is a priority for the government to move into an energy transition, to help cities in the energy transition, to start adapting to increasing temperatures, to insist on expanding green areas, to insist on expanding green roofs, to start controlling construction, to reduce car infrastructure, to strengthen public transport, to strengthen cycling infrastructure, to strengthen rail infrastructure, to join the European railways, to connect Croatian larger cities, to stop depending on private and aircraft transport. It is necessary for the government to start to control the growth of tourism capacities, it is necessary to stop the destruction of nature for tourism, to plan increasingly frequent and more abundant rainfalls, to prevent flood damages that are inevitably following us, to update the national low-carbon development strategy towards new EU objectives, so 55% to 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050, it is necessary to set within our society a fair allocation of costs so that emissions producers pay, and to reduce the cost for poorer segments of society, it is necessary to give clear and swift exit targets, as well as the foreseeable targets of exit from other fossil fuels. Finally, I will repeat once again, from the debate in this assembly it is clear that it is necessary to change the attitude towards the climate. From the relationship in which we are now in which the climate is not concerned, we are actively changing our relationship against climate stabilisation and biodiversity conservation. It is a real and first-class political issue and a question of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57854	Thank you. There are those who participated in the debate. We'll take a break by 10 o'clock and 55 o'clock and then we'll start by addressing the minister. MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS Now it's a free speech and now you can speak freely and choose the topic you want. Then there was the government president's report. Let's move on now, Club of HDZ Representatives, dear fellow Capulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57933	Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. narrators, sniffers, badgers, rabbits, crocodiles, wretches, nitwits, thermally incompetent, semi-coasters, cabalists, hands of misery, people with pre-pared careers grew on humus and manure, prosthetic poodles, crybab parasites, stupids and whineers, dirty, ugly and semi-written cockroaches, people fermented to acidity and decay, immature people who are salty, self-loving abusers from whom they need to keep their distance. All this came after a statement voting for me people voted for normal Croatia, and that normal Croatia means not to swear and insult people and not to speak nonsense. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would really not like any of this to think and speak for the President of the Republic of Croatia no matter how limited constitutional authority he has and how he compensated for his deficit in public space. The president has no significant constitutional authority, remains his public office as the most powerful political weapon, and that's fine. And it doesn't matter if the president uses a dictionary that's completely inappropriate to the head of state. At that stage, we submerged long ago and it is certain that we will not leave it until the end of his term whenever and whenever he finishes. That's certainly not good, but we can live with that. But we cannot live and must not violently move the border of the constitution and the law. And if we will, as some in the public space suggest, for the sake of peace in the house, we have no mandate to do it, we cannot do it. On the contrary, we must always, regardless of where such attempts came from, eliminate such attempts and efforts, without it there is no state and we do so regardless of whether it is the election of the Supreme Court President, respecting the Law on State Holidays or the powers of the Supreme Employee in relation to the Ministry and the Minister of Defence. The laws, rules and procedures are perfectly clear and no noise can change them, such as no noise can change the powers of the president, but they were not violated at any time by the minister's authority, nor is it HDZ's policy. The president passed a major change in his mandate, from a man who had nothing to say to handcuffs and left his oath after 15 seconds to a man who does not allow the defence minister to address the handcuffs and who would benefit from the position of top commander of the armed forces and giving orders, the military command of the top commander of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to take away the word of the minister in the Croatian government and that is not good. President Milanovic promised us that he would invest everything he has and everything he knows that out of the grains of trust he has sought and received from Croatian citizens and understanding that will show others and understanding that will show others the increasing mandate for the benefit of modern Croatia and all its citizens. I really don't know what the benefits of modern Croatia and all its citizens have of what we have seen in recent days. And he said precisely because he knows what it means to be Prime Minister, especially what it means to be Prime Minister in difficult times, that he will strictly stick to his constitutional restrictions, that he will not interfere in the work of the Croatian government where it can only cause disorder and can not be of any help. In the meantime, he forgot what it means to be president of the government, forgot what it means to be defence minister, committed himself to causing riots, and forgot what it looks like on the other side of the fence any side but the one on which it is. The president has his opinion, his motives, his expectations, the people around him have the same expectations. What the president doesn't have is tactics and respect for others. State impact, custodian, small bananas, untapped, non-essential dud, vermin, oatmeal You're a liar. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I agree with the president two years ago. For such a reason We're reversing rhetoric as a society. [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Capula]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57934	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57935	Thank you, 238. Mr. Kapulica, you've missed some more expressions, mixers and disruptors, mutators and headless, Japanese dilettants and simply sold souls genetically programmed against the free and independent Croatian state. That's what the heads of state said, and you've got one mistake, the word sniffer used the prime minister, not the president, so that you, not because of copyright, might have problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57936	Okay, you know you're getting a warning, and we're moving on. Now it's time for you to come along, Comrade Prickin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u57994	Thank you very much. Is this on, Mr. President? Here's my dear colleague and colleague. Here's me freedom, free speech, and there's no jumping out of the topic like that, so I'm going to continue that exposure that I started last time. I began to think of something that was connected to the most important point and topic of this season's session because the prime minister was reporting to us on the government's work. And I wanted to talk about foreign policy because other colleagues spoke about internal politics. And I mentioned a significant detail that I often mention here, Mr. Pupovac does not have, so one inaccurate attitude of Croatian politics towards Serbian politics. So Croatian Serbs are privileged to have too much attention, and Bosnian Serbs who are politically incomparable to us are not paying enough attention. It is perfectly normal for Serbian Serbs to take a firmer stance specifically to call their destructive action in Montenegro led by the Serbian Orthodox Church last time, but I also said last time that the relationship between Serbs and Croats in BiH was on a cleaner platform than anywhere between Serbs and Croats. And you know why that is? It is so primarily due to the lack of knowledge of opportunities in BiH by the international community and because of one completely wrong behaviour of Bosniaks, so I don't know, I have to choose a nice expression not to hurt them, let Bosniak nationalists who don't understand the situation in their environment remain. It's hard for me to speak ill of them for the reasons of my war route and my political structure, etc., but to get my people in a position to have two Christian nations against them, it's like someone put a crazy shirt on them. Talk about what's in charge, what's the big deal in BiH? The Croatian Serb side or wrongly I said the Croatian and Serbian sides respect the consistency of the people, and the Bosniak side tells stories about the civil state. To talk about a civil state after such a cruel civil war that was in BiH and is not the right Bosniak side that says there was no civil war but only aggression like the Serbian side is wrong when it says it was only aggression. The war in BiH began with the aggression of JNA under the control of Serbs, and then turned into a terrible civil war where civilians were killed, where many more were killed than soldiers on the battlefield, civilians, etc., so all the atrocities that took place in BiH are no guesses for the civil state. The one who insists on a civil state has no clean intentions. But let's cool it down, analytically, in '91. Before the BiH elections, all polls give Ante Markovic's reformists every chance. Ante Markovic had a great reputation, he had the most prominent Sarajevo with him, he had Kusturica, he had Bregovic, he had Davorin Popovic, he had Milorad Dodik, they expect all the great victory of the reformists, they expect all the great victory of the reformed communists. However, they experience disaster in the election, nationalist parties beat them to the punch. Seven, eight years ago, the BiH census, these are the best-speaked details about the situation in BiH, in the 96-point elections some percent of BiH citizens were declared as Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. And where are the citizens? And these 3.5% of even 3% of citizens were declared members of national minorities and about 0.5.5 or 6% as citizens. A Bosniak whose name I won't mention after that election calls me and says, you know how many Bosnians have been declared citizens in Bosnia? 28000, Professor. Lucic mentioned one 30,000 somewhere. So in one such state insisting on this civil logic and civil state it can only be one completely uninformed, misstated international community and one romanticised Bosniaks who are actually making incomparably greater damage to their people than they did at the beginning of the war by drawing on their crazy shirt of conflict with two Christian nations by telling stories of some kind of war. The war doesn't call for Dodik, it's war, it's my time again. If you'd just give me back the four, five minutes I spent last time. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58041	We're going to the fifth debate, dear colleague Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58042	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, yesterday another bridge stopped being the Korean one. Morally, he collapsed and stopped brimming the Koran and connected him to the Korduan side. First one mural, then one name caused the collapse. A mural because it was painted in the glory of the one who committed a serious war crime by killing in a particularly cruel way 13 prisoners. The name is because whoever executed it was not the only perpetrator. The war crime belonged to a unit named until yesterday's Korean Bridge. Crime committed 21.9.91. the year when 25 soldiers were stopped in 2 trucks, in one regular assembly, in another spare assembly picked up at speed from the Krnjak area, after negotiations hand over weapons. One group is sent to Karlovac to the police, another group is held on the bridge, 17 of them. After a short period of time, 13 of them are liquidated, 4 of them jump into the water, one of which succeeds, that he is badly wounded and cured in a carlovic hospital. We hear that whoever committed a war crime against prisoners is as it is in all wars and as it was in this war and who deserved morality and glory did it manly and fairly. And the unit in which it was and whose members participated in this execution in this war crime so that it could not have collective guilt. I'll tell you this. I know that more and more in the former Yugoslavia's space of celebration, forgetting responsibility for war crimes and celebrating those responsible for war crimes were convicted of domestic or international courts. However, we don't know, at least I don't know, we know that there are murals of different war criminals in the former Yugoslavia area, but we don't know that at the place where the crime was committed, the murals are raised and named after those who committed that war crime. And that's not the end of it. When the relatives of those who remember the victims, the murdered prisoners wanted to or wanted to light a candle in the place where they were killed, they were not allowed to. When in a peaceful way they want to commemorate those who are in one foolish act at the beginning of the war, they have acted in a way that cannot be proud, carried, and not proud to give up their memory, unfortunately it is not allowed. In the end, I'm going to say this, it's an unusual way of respecting the law. Very unusual. A law that basically lacks morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58043	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58044	Thank you very much. A fellow Popovac insulted Article 238, a fellow Pupovac mentions murals to the city of Vukovar all over Croatia until you mention the Chetnic monuments in Vukovar Šoškočanin's bloodline which you have not mentioned a word of. And finally the Croatian people should know where Dr. Ivan Schreter's bones are. Peacemaker of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] who wanted peace between Serbs and Croats. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58045	Comrade Bulj, please know very well that this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. I see there's more colleagues. So we're re-entering that cycle now as we do every day, so the injuries to the Rules of Procedure are used for replicas. You've all been chosen here by the will of the people and this is a free speech. It's clear to me that you don't agree with the whole series of speeches you're hearing here, but that's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you all to take care of it together. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58046	In breach of Rules of Procedure 238, Pupovac, in his presentation, rudely insulted Croatian defenders, so I would just like to remind him that the renaming of the bridge was secured thanks to your coalition partner in the town of Karlovac, so I suggest you break up the coalition with HDZ at the state level and end of the story. Or you still care more about personal synergy and government seats than your minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58047	Your colleague Pavliček is being warned, this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica. And now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go, and I'm sorry, Col. Mlinarić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58048	Thank you very much. The man said, Mr. Pupovac, that the Korean bridge didn't deserve that name. He certainly deserved that name. Mr. Pupovac, I know you're in the way of the Hos, but here you are showing that the special police who defended the Carlovec are bothering you. Mr. Hrastov is a hero and she deserves that bridge to bear that name and she'll wear it for sure and keep it 100% safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58049	My colleague Mlinarić, the same thing as the previous speakers, you get a warning. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58050	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Article 238, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac, has obviously forgotten one key fact he has never stated, and will probably never give up. And this is that members of his national minority, the Serb national minorities, at one point took arms and went to destroy their country of Croatia. And maybe one day we hear from Mr. Milorad and an apology for that, but instead of apologizing, he's still criticizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58051	A colleague of Zekanovic's, just like the predecessors, a reminder. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58052	It is expected that Pupovac, not only injured the Rules of Procedure, injured the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Declaration of the Homeland War, hurt the general feelings of all Croatian defenders, the Croatian people, injured the Holy Scriptures. Croatian heroes who have defended the Croatian and the Croatian homeland, especially the heroes of the special police deserve your permanent respect here today, would it not have been if they had not achieved the Croatian state and allowed you to co-ordinate with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58053	Comrade Sacic and this was a replica, so there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, you get a warning. Now it's time for my colleague, Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58054	The Honorable President of the Assembly, few of these 30 seconds, is what I would like to say to a parliamentary representative who spoke in such an ugly way about Croatian history, he is a pure example of falsifying Croatian history as when he wrote a letter to Stephen Javor to move his street into the Croatian city because he was a Ustasha and was killed by the regimeal, royal cops in '36. years, and I'd love to...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58055	Comrade Vrkljan, time's up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58056	...that my representative first invites me to a thematic session at which he will...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58057	A colleague of Vrkljan, a colleague of Vrkljan, gets a warning, gets a warning, now you get a second warning. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you abuse the Rules of Procedure. I repeat again, you are all selected, you have your views here and this is a free speech. And a lot of what's been said here by the vast majority of MPs disagree, but these are not the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. That's why we came up with this so that each one of the MPs can talk about the subject he chooses. And a lot of things we hear from different paths is unacceptable to the other side, but they're not injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58058	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238, a colleague insults a unit that actively participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the creation of democratic conditions, and cannot in this way speak of a unit that has made a huge contribution. And those who committed a crime, they will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58059	Comrade Simičević, you also get a reminder as well as predecessors. One more call from my colleague Bulj for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58060	Thank you very much. Col. Simičević injured Article 238, because you are a colleague of Šimičević, you are the culprits, not Milorad Pupovac, because of these attitudes because you are the ones who are in coalition with Milorad Pupovac. And don't follow Pilateski's hands over the sacred troops of the Croatians in the Homeland War because this attitude that Milorad Pupovac said, get out of the coalition, here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Are you in the coalition or not. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58061	You're getting a second warning from your colleague Bulj. I now invite you colleagues and colleagues to stop because we are reusing the Rules of Procedure, doing the same thing we did a few days ago when there was an incident later, so it is my duty to warn you, there is no mechanism to take away your word, but I will make warnings. Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58062	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't mean to abuse my rules of procedure, but as you yourself said, obviously we don't have a way of saying the club's position, it changed in the last term. My suggestion is to get it back, people who used it in another way or in the wrong way are no longer in the Parliament, and I think we should return it because there is clearly a need for a greater discussion about the way we view it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58063	You're getting a warning. Comrade Shimičević, please welcome back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58064	I thank the president of HS. He's been injured. In 238, Miro Bulj insulted the parliamentary representative, I was talking here about armed rebellion and the creation of an independent state of Croatia, and I didn't talk about the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58065	You will receive a second warning from your colleague Simičević. Now a colleague of the bush has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58066	Thank you. Dear fellow Shimičević, you have injured an article. In 238, you criticised Mr. Pupovac for his views, and your colleague Bulj told you that you were in the coalition, so by your will or will of the party to which you belong Mr. Pupovac is in the coalition and he is not just saying this as a parliamentary representative, he says this as a parliamentary representative of the ruling majority who together with you votes on Friday. So, you chose it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58067	A fellow Thunderbolt's time is up, and you've been warned. A colleague of Oreskovic, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58120	The chairman, my fellow MPs and colleagues. I will talk about how and why yesterday's verbal conflict occurred between the president of the state and Defence Minister Marija Banozic. This verbal conflict stems from the same understanding, one and the same mental attitude, would say one and the same political dogmas and diseases that most politicians and political parties of the old age suffer from, which is the opinion that the most state functions are their own purpose and that their holders are above the institutions themselves, above the letters of the constitution, above the laws and above the rights. This argument yesterday, which was rhetorically in its own dictionary, was truly unworthy and vulgar, is only one in a series of examples that shows how far Croatia is still an unbuilt state. 30 g. After gaining independence, sovereignty and independence, there is still no clear knowledge of what are obligations, which are whose powers, responsibilities, and even rights. And in so vaguely defined constitutional roles, the display of personal conflicts is placed above the needs of the state, above the needs of its citizens, and there is a blockade of foreign and diplomatic action. It's almost as if this empty work is being created cleanly to hide that there's no other content, as if two hills have united in the common goal, which is blocking the work and devastation of state institutions. But one of the institutions that doesn't need to be further devastated because it's already devastated to the very end, it's an HS institution. He's been in that institution for 30 years. the government terror and dictatorship of the parliamentary majority through obedience to the character and work of the party chief, regardless of who the political party with the greatest power in parliament is and who its boss was at that time. When I say the terror and dictatorship of the parliamentary majority, as it seems in practice, we will be able to see it by the end of today's parliamentary day when it will discuss trust in the work of one of the ministers. And now on the side as far as the minister is guilty and as justified as the reasons for his shift existed since the days before, the fact is that the opposition MPs' initiative will not bear fruit because the parliamentary majority does not have that power, does not have that property and self-awareness through which it would fulfil its basic constitutional task, which is to control the work of the executive authority. Knowing this, I ask myself a question, and how stupid was the defence minister's invitation to reconsider the responsibility of the president of the state in such a same assembly, knowing that he needed a two-thirds majority, without any valid and valid reason or justification. But regardless of all this, the fact is that there is paralysis in the Republic of Croatia of a system that depends on political cartels. The fact is that there is no possibility of institutional control in the Republic of Croatia, the fact is that there is no system of brakes and balance, and the fact is that such a state, such a blockade, such paralysis of the system is recorded and contained in the provisions of the constitution. And I'm now asking a rhetorical question, is there a RH in this or in any future summation of any power, will and vision to change that state? And if we want to start somewhere, here's a little proposition. So one of the main obligations and responsibilities of the president of the state is to worry about the stability of the state government. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be conferred on the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the In areas and in ways in which the positional authority of the President of the State can be constructively used to care for regular and coordinated action, I propose to address it this way, which is to enable it to monitor the implementation of the objectives of national strategic documents, then to monitor the conditions in which institutions carry out their tasks, and to respond to shortcomings in the institutional and legislative framework, and to point to a lack of material and human and technical and other linguistic resources. And then I call on him to deal with promoting the independence and impartiality of the work of the state authorities and to stand in their protection, especially in situations where he can be seen as having political or other inappropriate pressure, it would be a much more constructive way of working than we have had the opportunity to see so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58169	Now, a respected colleague, Pavliček, will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58170	The Honorable President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here today we entered the 11th day of signing for the referendum initiative "Protect Croatian Kuna" and we are doing well, according to all indicators we will collect the number needed by 368,000 Croatian voters. Why? Because that's what the Croatian people and Croatian voters want. They want the euro zone to be decided by the Croatian people at the referendum. Why? Because on the other hand, all the arguments made by Andrej Plenkovic, Governor Vujčić and Minister Maric fall into the water. Nor will our tourist season be better by entering the euro zone because the tourist who decided to go to Croatia will come and mostly have card payments, nor will there be larger foreign investments because foreign investments depend primarily on a favourable business climate, which unfortunately in Croatia is highly unfavourable because of numerous parafiscal charges. The only thing the prime minister is right is that Croatia will have a better credit rating. And why do we need a better credit rating so we can keep borrowing? If that's the main thread of leadership, then treasure to us. But we return to the referendum initiative itself. 2,500 volunteers from Župa Dubrovačka to Ilok collect the signatures of Croatian voters every day and in the rain and in the wind and in the beautiful weather. I personally visited hundreds of villages in two Slavonian constituencies in hundreds of catering facilities, hair salons, beauty salons, and all owners are willing to help us because everyone is convinced that there will be a price hike. In a conversation with the number of hosts, everyone told me that they would round prices, what was 13 kuna would be two euros, what was 10 kuna would be the euro and will all be rounding up and so it will be in all your activities and that is inevitable, through which all the countries have gone through, Croatia will go through and again a layer of poor citizens will be created in our beautiful country. But let's go back to the problems our volunteers have on the ground. In order to be able to collect the signatures somewhere, you must first officially contact the local self-government unit, and there are 555 of them with us, so you have to ask for a request for a public space rental, you have to wait somewhere 5, about 10, somewhere not today, you have to pay according to the number of days used, and then the more absurd you come to the situation that each official and that in the cities of volunteers ask for notes. Something that's been lifted in this country since September 1st this year. But he doesn't know it, and his decision says that for renting public space you have to pay a 20, 50 or 70 kuna mark. And then this volunteer has to argue there with that clerk, and then he goes to visit 5, 10 locations in the city and there's no place to buy a mark, so after 2 days, he finds something in the post office somewhere that's not yet sold, so with that mark that no longer has any function in this country as far as renting public space can file a request. Here, this is how government decisions work, this is how laws work in the Republic of Croatia. And you don't have time because you're limited by two weeks as long as you can collect signatures. It also comes into a situation where you pay 50 kuna an hour in certain cities, so figure out how much it costs per day, so how much it costs in 15 days, 50 kuna. So this just shows that the Institute of the Referendum is really a dead letter on paper. Dead letter on paper. However, despite all this, we will collect a sufficient number of signatures because this is what Croatian citizens want, because everyone has united. And regardless of the omens were left, were right, everyone was afraid and everyone was aware that Croatia is not ready to enter the Eurozone at the moment. And no argument of the ruling simply stands. Let the Croatian people decide on this, and we will ensure it with the signatures that are needed for the Croatian Parliament to call a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58218	Let's move on, now it's time for the club of representatives of HSS and RF counterpart Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58219	Thank you. So I'd say something, and I'd say something about the political issues that appear again and again here in HS, but also beyond. In the week that we have 40 deaths a day from the crown, when it has already died over 9,000 people in Croatia from the crown, when the health system is under collapse, and for so long, when people of 40 years of age die without comorbidity, on the day when it comes to budget rebalancing in a country that is the second poorest country in the EU that 17% working, over 17% of the working-age population has moved out, where the minimum wage is one of the lowest in Europe, and the average salary is one of the lowest in Europe, where we have in general one of the largest actually pooring rates that is the first issue in all media? Collars and colleagues, the shift brigades honorably protective combats, the shift brigades honorably protective combats you with those feathers on your head, means those ceremonial units as many as 300 employees in those units who are today the first theme of all the media in Croatia because there is a major who has been removed, the Brigadier, the Brigadier. So what I want to tell you is a retired brigade, well, what I want to tell you is that our President Zoran Milanovic is in a very good HDZ rating because if these are problems, if these are the first problems in Croatia then Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing a very good job and then we are surprised when HDZ has a high rating. Unfortunately, not only is Zoran Milanovic involved with his rappelling fire, so who per minister of defense instead of talking about rapals about military fear of planes that we will pay one billion euros from colleagues and colleagues. So this minister who now exchanges rapal fire with the president has in his hands a chip to maybe pull us out of some crisis and maybe the health system is somehow better if we at least postpone those rouble payments for those greasyly expensive planes. One billion euros stands in the hands of that minister who obviously does not understand the command responsibility, did not manage well, Milanovic is having a lot of fun, all of this entertains the entire Croatian public, but today we will talk about budget rebalancing, so let's try to say something about how the health system could be better because this rebalancing that we understand will not help the health system too much but will only pay those debts that came from the too high medicines of the pharmaceutical industry, there will not be much help for healthcare workers who are losing their strength. The progressive party, the progressive opposition parties that are doing in the assembly right now? Some of them demand that workers do even more jobs than they do now because they do not have enough to live on. So here's the sovereigns asking to allow workers to do even more than they've done so far, not to raise those minimum wages, average wages than to do even more. Part of the opposition demands that the minimum wage be raised to 60% average, here's news from reality the prime minister has already raised the minimum wage to 60% of the average colleagues and colleagues from We can, these are demands you don't have to ask for because it has been met. Plenkovic is, by all accounts, great and who wouldn't vote for him, if these are the first problems and if we participate in such spectacles. On the other hand, the prime minister boasts factory statistics on the decline in the number of unemployed, not saying how much our unemployment rate fell compared to other unemployment rates, does not say that we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, etc. And no one's answering him, he's doing great, but there's colleagues and colleagues and we're responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58220	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure by Representative Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Peovic. Unlike your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58222	What was the injured colleague Milanović litre?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58223	Art. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58224	What about the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58225	It's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58226	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58227	I can tell, then you'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58228	No, no, don't tell me what's hurt. Well, we can't play like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58229	I'm trying to tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58230	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58231	I'm trying to say it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58232	Tell me what's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58233	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58235	So, respected fellow Peovic, unlike your party and your ideology, which you represent, obviously, by a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58236	You didn't tell your colleague what was hurt, you're trying to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58237	I'm trying to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58238	You're getting a second warning now. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58239	Can I finish my...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58240	No, you can't because you didn't say what was hurt, you went into replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58241	This is an example of democracy in the Republic of Croatia because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58242	Now you get a third warning and you lose your right to speak. We're going to the second debate of fellow Kajtazi on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58260	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, from today to Saturday for the 13th time in the Republic of Croatia, but throughout the world we also mark the World Day of Roma Language. As every year, I use this opportunity to stress that it is precisely our initiative, the initiative of the Roma from the Republic of Croatia, which after the support of the Croatian Parliament in 2012, and then in 2015, when the date was recognised by UNESCO, it was also given its European and world dimension. You will agree with me that it is rare for one of our initiatives to be internationally recognised and live here for the 13th year in a row to become one of the 3 most important dates when we talk about the Roma community as the largest European minority without a country of origin that extends this support around the world. As a result, the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia has become recognizable in the European context, and everything we have done in recent years with the support of all important national institutions, parliaments, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, University of Zagreb, City of Zagreb, government, is also becoming subject to many future successes. He would also point out the announced International Roma Conference, which will take place in April next year in Zagreb with the support of the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We use the World Day of Roma as a day to raise awareness of Roma culture in various ways with a special focus on Roma language as the main point of Roma culture, which is due to the influence of other languages, assimilation and lack of education incessantly endangered. On this trail, the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia, Kali Sara, issued a series of editions and left a significant written trail, and there, of course, is the first Roma Croatian, Croatian Roma dictionary in 2008, but also the second expanded version of the same of 30,000 words. This year's central marking is held on Friday starting at 11am in the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia Kali Sara. Before that, we are gathered in the Park on 5 November in Zagreb where we discover the first stone of the stumbling block of the so-called ". Stolperstein for Roma victims in World War II. In addition, yesterday and today we hold promotions of new books and literary evenings in coordination with the Roma Central Library in Croatia, and on Saturday we prepare a rich programme in Slavonski Brod, exhibition, book promotion, film projections, etc. The series of events we have called the days of Roma culture is free to say is the richest programme in Europe, and this way I invite you to join us. As I always point out, I am proud of all of us, the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia, but all of you colleagues and colleagues in various institutions without which this would certainly not exist. I believe that the Croatian Parliament's decision of 25 May 2012 has made the same move for UNESCO and for this date to come to life. This has changed the context in which the Roma are even considered and yet many people remember a rich language, a large culture that has affected many European societies, despite many problems. Remember the Roma literature of some prominent Roma, etc. We need to talk about this even more. We are also talking about our parks in the centre of Zagreb, in Belište, Kutina, Beli Manastir, Ludbreg. Diplomatic studies of Roma at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, Central Library in the Republic of Croatia, the most beautiful and wealthy in Europe. The Roma memorial center and the Roma educational centre we're building. During these 13 years, we held meetings in many national institutions with topics such as standardisation and codification of Roma language, the use of Roma language in information technologies and the position of Roma language within the family. The events of the World Day of the Roma language are regularly attended by Roma from abroad, including many linguists, writers, sociologists, teachers, historians, and just as they remain ambassadors of our country because they speak only of the best things about us. This concludes and I use this opportunity to congratulate all Roma in Croatia and the world on the World Roma Day and to thank everyone again for their help and cooperation so far. .../The speaker speaks Roma language.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58261	We're joining the congratulations. We're going to the 10th debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58298	Thank you. I find it interesting that the President of the Republic was criticised only by those he defeated, either as opponents, or as their party. Well, as I rarely get a chance to speak in a assembly on behalf of someone who's won, I can now. The SDP representative club expresses its full support for the president of the Republic of Croatia in guarding the army from party personneling, from the will of the defence minister and his discretionary law enforcement in a way that is experienced against the HV officers. In defence of the military from party personneling, the president of the republic is surrounded by HDZ ministers, and the second round around them is made by the president of the RS government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Fortunately, he does not need help, he has on his side the constitution and most citizens' support, and even most of those who, for my very unknown reasons, still vote for HDZ. What are the key problems of the defence minister at the moment and on the day we bring the budget? Will the minister speak at a ceremony and will a memo to send several members of the armed forces to BiH arrive from this or that address? Did an officer who was in charge of the honorary protective battle bother him so much that he needed to retire for no reason whatsoever, which only triggered the fire that followed? But what happened? At this point in time when we are using the term honorary and protective combat, the President of the Republic is both an honorary and protective not military but a brigade that has been hit against the protection of the military against HDZ party personneling after excavating all other institutions of the state that should be independent. Chief of Staff, Admiral Robert Food, is exposed to the rapid fires of HDZ ministers who, as a unit of students, on television on Sunday, reiterated that the defence inspectorate would exercise control whether he broke or did not break the law. It's the first time in history that a chief of staff has been executed by the commander-in-chief's orders being exposed to party burst fire by ministers who have no place in the chain of command or even a vice-president of the government. It should probably be a pressure on the military to cancel obedience to the commander-in-chief, but that didn't happen even when Mesic was president, so it won't happen when Milanovic was president. To conclude, the motion to initiate the impeachment of the President of the Republic is with me and my colleagues from the HDZ he wants to sign, so he can report freely, but you know the requirements on the paper, and the paper can be lit if the cigarette is not properly extinguished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58299	My fellow Capula, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58300	The Rules of Procedure have been injured many times before, but you have said that your presidential candidate will act seriously and that he will not work on the show, so you may have just felt directly called and to the extent that as an experienced representative, you have misused the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure just to say that the one you are now giving unreserved support is not the only one who is the most consistent in insulting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58301	Thank you, Comrade Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58302	But you don't have to feel uncomfortable. No one ever took your word for it anyway. [[Adversity President: Col. Kapulica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58303	You're getting a warning there wasn't any damage to your rules of procedure, but you're replicating it. Here's my colleague, Bauk, I've given a warning to whether you're going to go too and say that the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58304	Mr. President of the Assembly, I will get a warning just to tell Mr. Kapulica that President Milanovic is doing his duty properly and that he will do much longer than you would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58305	And you will receive a warning, just as you have declared. Now it is up to counterpart Klasic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58321	Thank you very much. Dear president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Good morning, everyone first. Although Croatia on a map of global pollution does not represent a mention of a valuable energy footprint, it is our duty and obligation to reduce the emissions of harmful gases in the atmosphere as much as possible to avoid imposing unnecessary burdens on future generations. Due to the need to reduce the greenhouse gasses of the government, a large number of European countries have offered incentives to minimise environmental impacts and make available to citizens, including Croatia that has introduced subsidies, tax reliefs and other incentives to reduce the purchase price of electric cars and other accessories. In order to encourage clean transport in Croatia since 2014-20. For environmental protection and energy efficiency, the Environmental Protection Fund has been financed with 153 million kuna to purchase such vehicles in Croatia. One of the Croatians' favorite public tenders is the one for the purchase of energy-efficient vehicles either, electric or hybrid. Unfortunately, he is inaccessible to most residents primarily because of the very price of such vehicles. If by chance there is a significant increase in the purchase of electric vehicles, then the problems of the owner of electric cars are just beginning to fill them and at what cost. There are already problems with charge of electric cars, and the problem will soon be escalated. A fast charge in an hour would require 50KW of installed power, and if only 10 vehicles were connected to such semi-fast chargers, the engine system would decommission throughout the neighborhood. You need to start now, so you need to change the power system because you need electric cars if you can't charge them. Only for these needs will it be necessary to build one nuclear power plant or import electricity from BiH where electricity is produced largely in TE on dirty coal. I think the time has come for us to review and establish a new model that would be more accessible to most of Croatia's inhabitants, and thus more effective in terms of reducing the emissions of harmful gases at an acceptable price. Autogas, as I can see, is the only commercially acceptable current alternative fuel that meets increasingly stricter standards in terms of exhaust emissions of motor vehicles and thus enables concrete solutions to improve air quality, especially in urban areas. In addition, autogas-using vehicles release less exhaust gases when their engines are cold as they specifically refer to urban areas where vehicles are shorter in operation and travel less distances to reduce environmental pollution. Natural gas as alternative fuel could speed up the transition towards renewable energy sources, and it is predicted that its share of transport will grow more and more. In addition to today's alternative diesel and gasoline fuel, natural gas is the most affordable and has a 20% lower CO2 emissions and tiny particles that have a significant impact on human health and global warming. The ratio is almost 3-1 in favour of the natural gas vehicle. Gas is an excellent alternative for those who care about the environment and in developed European countries there are incentives to buy a natural gas vehicle of up to 20% but there are no such incentives in us and we think that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund should urgently consider including these vehicles in order to encourage clean transport in Croatia, which will also contribute more significantly to reducing the emissions of harmful gases in terms of the payload power of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58368	Let's move on, colleague Bernardic, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u58369	The Honorable President of HS. I will not talk about the president and prime minister's conflict because while the public is entertained by the conflict between the president and prime minister in the Banozic case, unfortunately Croatia is plagued by much more serious problems. I'll remind you of May 26, 2020. When in Split, the government's president slanted, we won the crown. From today's perspective, it is clear that this statement has served exclusively for political purposes and, unfortunately, the government's struggle with the crown is purely political from the first to the last day. That is why Croatia is among the worst in Europe and the number of newly infected and the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, and this is the best evidence of today's almost 5,000 infected and totally red on the ECDC map. So I have warned from the beginning of the pandemic that there is absolutely no strategy to fight the pandemic, and not only that, we have proposed a whole set of measures and laws to combat pandemics from measures to prevent the spread of the disease, to help entrepreneurs, to help pensioners, workers and health professionals on the first line of defense. Not to say that healthcare professionals haven't been adequately paid to fight this vicious virus all this time. But what is the point of what I want to say today is why vaccination in Croatia has been fiasco and why Croatia is among the worst countries in the EU. The answer is because citizens have lost confidence in both headquarters and government. I'll remind you of some facts, in January 2020. The vaccine was to be reached in Croatia, unfortunately the vaccine did not arrive at adequate doses in Croatia, despite all alleged ties by Prime Minister Plenkovic in Brussels, those who wanted to be vaccinated then simply could not be vaccinated. Afterwards, people went to apply to a system of vaccines on an app that was paid fatly where someone had stored huge money in their pocket, it was also one of the big affairs of Minister Beros, which application was infamously failed before it rose and when people wanted to vaccinate again they could not be vaccinated. Then, unfortunately, the citizens of our country saw the government and the headquarters taking an awe - inspiring measures that were at the very least in conflict with common sense, such as those that shopping centres were open, and cafes and restaurants closed. Mrs. Grba initially said that masks weren't necessary, so she wouldn't take them off later. And what's saddening is that it's the saddest thing that's ever been since the beginning of so-called. The headquarters, and in principle a walking mobile speaker used his presses for self-propaganda, which is also witnessed by the other major affair of Minister Beros where one agency was paying a large amount of money for self-promotion. So, since the beginning of the pandemic, complete inconsistency has been present in the fight with this virus, and Minister Beroš has turned from the health minister to the on-call statistician of the number of dead and newly cut in Croatia, even Bozinović's approach in this case has been wiser because clearly the man has retired from that headquarters and no longer wants to be a duty statisticist, and at the same time the citizens in Croatia are suffering from many serious and serious diseases and that is one of the reasons why the morgues are full. But why in the whole range of EU countries is the split-up greater? Because citizens in those countries trusted their governments who acted responsibly, unlike ours. I'll only give you an example of Portugal, so they've put an army chief at the head of the pandemic task force, not a politician from the ruling party. So why? Because it's the institution in which citizens have the most trust. But from the Croatian perspective in this particular case, and this would seem impossible because while the public is entertained by the conflict between the president of the state and the Prime Minister in the case of Banozic, the focus is turned away from the real problems that plague our country. As far as vaccination is concerned, we must conclude that, of course, it would be good to have as much fissure as possible, but here the thesis has been twisted since the very beginning of the vaccination system, saving another person's life is not well set because it should have been written to be vaccinated, save your life, and that's true when it comes to the vaccine. But no one can force anyone to vaccinate because it's a matter of freedom of choice for each individual. But what needs to be made possible should allow life to go on and fast antigen tests, just like in Austria, to be available everywhere, at every step that simply without them could not be entered into cafes or restaurants And that's why we at the club are going to suggest that. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68236	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.56 HOURS]] In addition to the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections 2022 and 2023, the proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2021 and the projection of plans for 2022 and 2023 for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, the Centre for restructuring and sale, the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Highways, Croatian Travel and HZ Infrastructure. Second: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, second reading of P.Z. No. 202 and - Proposed half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2021. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 39. Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 109. Budget law. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The final draft of the law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Economy, the Defence Committee. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Assembly through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections shall not prevent the determined amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projections, amendments submitted, proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft state budget and projections, may be accepted provided that other expenditures and expenditures are reduced at the same time in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the proposing representative, the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, we have several requests for a break. There's a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68237	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult the budget rebalancing. Here I must highlight several key facts which I am certain I am also aware of Minister Maric. In fact, Croatia is more than 4.5% of GDP in the deficit, some say even 4.7. So this year, Croatia has less, less than, excuse me, 20 billion kuna. So this year, Croatia is missing 20 billion kuna. And now one thing is not clear to me. Why does the Czech Republic say that it will introduce the EUR when it is favourable and when it introduces order into its public finances and has a deficit of only 3%, and we who have a deficit of 4.7% want to break the introduction of a new currency or EUR? Why don't Croatia wait for a better time? Why not also introduce Croatia when it is the most favourable for Croatia? And you also know, respected ministers, that the condition for the introduction of the EUR is a deficit, less than 3% and will be respected by the Czech Republic. And the Czech Republic, for example, was loud and clear yesterday, the new Czech government said we do not want to introduce the EUR because it is not right for us at the moment. I am interested in what is different in Croatia than it is in the Czech Republic and why is Croatia which is economically weaker which is more in charge, where is the lower standard of shrub in the EUR-o while the Czech Republic, which has a better standard, does not fall into the EUR-o? Is it possible that it is the only directive of Andrej Plenkovic? Are we introducing the EUR because Andrej Plenkovic wants to fulfill his European tasks or because it is more favourable for us? I will repeat Croatia is currently in a deficit, with no more than 20 billion kuna. If I did correctly read 19 billion and 700 million kunas or more than 4.7%, respectively. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68238	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68239	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, for the second time this year we are discussing budget rebalancing, and this is expected in a year that remains pandemic where Croatia faces a major health and economic challenge, it is normal that what was planned a year ago should be changed in a certain form because everything that happened in 2020 and 2021 was difficult to predict. And in that part of the grudge we can't direct. But there are a number of things in this budget rebalancing that we have to look back at and say that they're not good, more specifically they're very bad. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, expenses are not under control. You don't keep expenses under control. Whether it's your responsibility, whether it's the responsibility of the Prime Minister or the Minister of Government, that's another question, but you're not in control. And where do you see it best? In the health system. Since the beginning of this year, Croatia has pumped billions, billions of kunas, which is the result, debts continue to grow, and the quality of health services is not increased, it has been reduced and is not only the crown responsible for this, it is responsible for the fact that the health system as a whole is not managed well and that we have nothing since the announced health reform. When she left the cabinet six months later, we saw how bad she was, but that's not the only problem. Dear Mr. Maric, the rebalance shows that we have not spent 200 million kuna on the renovations available to us, nor 200 million kuna on co-financing of European projects. It shows that this government It simply doesn't control Croatia because it doesn't know [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Grbin]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68240	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Selak Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68241	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club to warn about the key information that we can discover from the rebalancing of this budget, which tells us a lot about what our budget and financial situation will be in next year. The budget itself is a list of beautiful desires, while the rebalance speaks more about the real state of things. And the key information that we need to get out of this budget rebalancing concerns the possibility of spending on eu funds, more specifically on the Solidarity Fund, which has given us as much as 700m euros at our disposal, and we have boasted that we have received the biggest advance ever. In August, the story changed somewhat, so our prime minister warned that he would have to ask for a postponement of deadlines that were not scheduled, and that he would do so by calling the President of the European Commission. If Croatia rests on the principle of Hello Andrej, do we believe that the most serious European institution rests on the principle of Halo Ursula. What do we learn from this rebalance? The health care is returning about 400 million kuna, universities around 700 million kuna, reconstruction fund around 700 million kunas, museums, archives still do not have spent the funds they could and needed to rebuild Croatia, which come from the Solidarity Fund. What we haven't spent will be paid by Croatian citizens from their own pockets. Taking into account that the next year GDP growth of around 4% is planned with a third of this growth coming from EU funds, this rebalancing raises a legitimate and key issue, given that we have now been unable to spend solidarity funds from the EU, which we are fooling that any projection of the budget is based on EU funds for next year sustainable. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68242	The apartment is approved. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68243	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Party Club Center and the Party GLAS, I request a 10-minute break for additional consultations. The debate on the budget is expected to take up to late nights, followed by the next item of the agenda, which is the debate on the confidence of the finance minister on the initiative of one part of the opposition MPs. Such putting this item on the agenda in these porn terms is a humiliation of the control role of HS, a humiliation of the dignity not only of the parliament as an institution but also of Croatian citizens and their demeaning. In fact, the content of what should be discussed enters into the work and competence of the committee to decide on a conflict of interest, an institution that has been wiped out of the sky by a move of political feathers by those anti-corruption bodies that have their own purpose and their own reason of existence. Since the outbreak of the Borg affair, it has been clear that it has a corrupt omen and that it opens the issue of criminal justice, let alone conflict of interest, the responsibilities not only of certain ministers but also of Andrej Plenkovic as prime minister. And the fact is that the annual reports of the commission have not been discussed since the commission is in the new council. The debate on this opposition committee initiative was the last chance for the public to know and hear the course of events, the way Andrej Plenkovic choked the institutions and how the rule of law capitulated before him, all to hide the rights of the nature of his political action. The use of public institutions in favour of private interests is not only a quality and a feature of Minister of Finance Maric, it has become a recognizable feature of the entire Plenkovic mandate, which slowly falls into oblivion and is not appropriate to discuss it in porno terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68244	The apartment is approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68245	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF Club in order to consult on this budget rebalancing, and above all to stress that in the year of the greatest epidemic since the First World War, when the number of deaths has crossed 9,000 people, when our health system falls apart, when we have 40 people dead of the crown daily, when the respiratory centres are full, when really our healthcare professionals warn that they can't anymore, the government devotes its budget to what, so here's the goal of reaching 2% of GDP for defence. This is the goal that NATO has imposed on us without any democratic debate. Instead of the rafts that we hear are being exchanged between Milanovic and the defence minister, perhaps we should talk about the acquisition of the 12 fighter planes that will successfully reach that ideal, the figure when paid will successfully reach that ideal, according to Prime Minister Plenkovic of 2%. So Banozic got 7.4 billion kuna by 2025, one token to say that it could do something in the health system in the budget rebalancing, but no one will ask, so yearly it will be worth how much we have now estimated about 2.4 billion as my colleagues tell me annually that they will go on these fighter planes. The question is raised so that we can improve the large expenditures of the health system with these resources, and it should also be said that, that the government has not provided the assumption that more people are being vaccinated, which is the same reason why these funds will grow. Italy, Portugal, Spain managed to reduce Number of infected, Croatia as well as Bulgaria, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Romania, Ukraine is not. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68246	Comrade Dark Tarritash, I have a session to run. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68247	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to show once again that at the time of the biggest pandemic and at the time of the earthquake that has been unrecorded in our country, this government has actually achieved that we have a GDP growth of 9%. This means that we have actually caught up with a pre-crisis period and have shown that we are very good and good at dealing with the most difficult facts and the most difficult dangers. During this period, it has indeed proved that now that the most needed and health system and support for entrepreneurs is to save jobs, we have really great expenditure, but by timely intervention these expenditures have indeed been settled from our budget and borrowing, but in the end, we are going to make up a lot of these expenditures, and we are going to make up for it by European means. What should be said is that the use of European funds has been of great quality, so since 2017, when it was only 7.3 billion, it has now reached 23.6 billion kuna, which means that multiple efforts have just been made to make it the best possible to spend and invest in our economy and economy. In 2022, it is even more than 31 billion kuna, which means that it is a quality and responsible policy that both public debt and this year's rebalancing rate decreases by 4.2 percentage points and comes down to 83%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68248	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68249	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. Croatia has a major problem with public spending. So when we compare today's situation to 2012 for example, budget expenditures are more than 50 billion kuna, and we know that fewer people today live in Croatia, unfortunately than then. We'll see how much less soon, but we still have the problem of eviction, and an increase in the state's impact on the real economy. So I think that this HDZ rating that somehow seems to be stable for a long time is a reflection that a large number, unfortunately, a large number of our people depend directly or indirectly, depend on public spending for their existence. And it's only getting worse. The situation after the earthquake shows that our public administration is unfortunately dysfunctional. She is unable to solve major problems and does not meet the needs of citizens. And that is unfortunately also true for the use of EU funds. It's a good thing we have them at our disposal, but they're no guarantee that our people will live in prosperity. So when they're waving billions of dollars, billions from Brussels are asking whether it's a guarantee that there will be new jobs and keeping our people's standards. Unfortunately not. So this budget should repeat that the public knows almost 11,000 items. 11,000 items in the budget, and the structure of the budget has not changed in the last 20 years. So again, I will repeat without structural reforms or the introduction of the EUR will not help us and there must be no substitute for what the government should have done long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68250	Thank you. The break is approved. Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68251	The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, this rebalance shows that we have an increase of 1.8 billion kuna compared to the rebalancing of June this year, and it will end up at nearly 19 billion kuna. More than 50% and 9 or 9 billion kunas, respectively, are wastes on money pumping into health care, which is a symbolic cancer of Croatian finances. And despite the exceptional tourist season, we see that it has failed in no way to reduce the deficit we will have at the end of this year. And unfortunately this is another indicator that we lost another year. Another year to launch serious reforms, thus also rationalising the expenditure side of the state budget, and ultimately creating a financial sustainable system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68252	The apartment is approved. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68253	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the budget, and also the rebalancing, is practically the most important document that we will bring at the annual level, I think it is definitely necessary to take a break in order not only for the Focus Club and the Independent Representatives to consult, but also for all of us to consider some really serious data and serious problems together. In 2008, as a state, we were still comparable to one Slovakia, with one Czech Republic, and we could, of course, go but to couples as regards GDP growth. Today, even a few years ago, compared to a ten-year period, all EU countries have overtaken us except Bulgaria. Reforms are not something that lasts from government to government but something that needs to be extended over decades, and we cannot possibly just sit on a green branch about it. I would also like to say that foreign countries are sending literally food to satellites, and we are fighting over some small budget items here and we cannot bring our own finances and public sector into order. I would also say that over 250,000 people work in the public sector, we have over 1,400 public companies, so public consumers, a good part of them is a loser. And now I'm looking at this rebalancing, and we see that our expenditures are increasing almost double compared to the increase in income, so I'm curious about how this is responsible for Croatia and how it is responsible for all those who fill the state budget of course. It's definitely not a good indicator or we're going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68254	The apartment is approved. And another request from a colleague of Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68255	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club in order to consult again on the problems we face and at a debate on budget rebalancing. So this rebalancing actually comes down to three things, and that's one irrational defense spending when it comes to climate crisis, so we're spending on airplanes, and on the other hand we have an Energy Efficiency Fund that's late with competitions that collect money instead of being a flow water heater that's losing competitions and the government's doing nothing about it. Then we have a collapse in the country's recovery after the earthquake, it is evident that in all the areas affected by the earthquakes, the recovery almost didn't begin at all, and this is an attempt to tackle health care and deal with the crisis of the covida-19 epidemic, where we witness the terrible data about the 40 deaths yesterday, about the complete failure to manage the crisis, about the constant debts of all healthcare suppliers, and absolutely nothing we see through this rebalance will change in that sense. That's why we can only conclude that this rebalancing is also talking about this government's weakness by dealing with such crises as earthquakes and as covid, and that's why we're looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68256	All right, we'll apply the article. 293.b and we'll continue the debate. So here we will now be spoken on behalf of the promoter by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Maric. Here you go. Please just hold the tiles until you're listed. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68257	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. I'm glad to see you with the yellow tiles, all bright and smiling. Let us first of all allow just a few words and according to these arguments of the breaks, practically nine out of ten clubs I would say, in these arguments, very reasonedly took to the budget or rebalancing, so I can conclude from that as well as what my colleagues passed on to me from the parent boards and other committees that we can expect today a quality debate which I think Croatian citizens tax bonds deserve among other things. However, as it is said in the introduction, we are talking about the most important act to be adopted in one year, this is the act of budget for 2021, which, given all the circumstances that are here, we are forced to amend or amend second time in the same year, so to make its rebalancing. And I'm going to take this opportunity, and I'm going to say this time to the covid, you remember that there were approximately dynamics very clearly identified, once a year, as a rule at this time of year, when we realized that economic activity and budget revenues were something better than we expected. The expenditures within those limits we set ourselves, and then the result as such is better than what we expected. Three years ago, three years before the rebalancing, we had those nice circumstances when he would stand behind this speaker and talk about the general government budget surplus and further reducing the share of public debt in GDP. Circumstances have changed slightly, but of course our obligation and duty is ultimately to function under these new and emerging circumstances. As far as these points are concerned, I will try and, of course, focus most on budget rebalancing, there will be opportunities and answers to your replicas, and also through discussion I hope that we will touch every segment and part of the budget rebalancing itself, but in this introductory section I will cover also the binding points of the Law on the implementation of the state budget and the implementation of the budget for the first six months which is also on the agenda. So as for the rebalancing itself, I'm going to start by assessing macroeconomic indicators. So, as well known and published, we have revised our estimates for growth this year, although we have less than two months this year, but still, I think it is important to point out that taking into account all the data we have available, these are the first two quarters of this year's high-frequency macroeconomic indicators at the monthly level, but in covid they have proved particularly important those data that we, in the IRS and the Ministry of Finance, follow up on a daily basis, and these are fiscalised accounts and tax revenues that led to the assessment of growth for this year to rise to 9%. 9% and I must say that when we look at all the components of GDP other than investments in all categories, we have a significant increase compared to the original estimates. As for the investment of the category that we are most often... and we are most interested and I think that you are apostrophe amongst other things, and that what some MPs have mentioned about the eu funds, I think there should be absolutely focus and emphasis. This year, the reason is only one part hidden in the private investment segment, but in the years that follow, we see that investment will be the main drivers of overall economic growth engines and I think we can agree or the vast majority agree that investment, goods exports and general exports of goods and services will be the main drivers, along with I would say the traditional good contribution of personal consumption in total growth and overall economic circumstances. Of course, for this year, what we are particularly interested in is the assessment of the trend in inflation for this year, regardless of the last few months and the increased and accelerated inflation that is visible, which in every step can be recognised in some way, mainly when we talk about energy and food, the categories which, in addition to the communal or colloquial terms, most of which are seen in daily and monthly consumption of all citizens, unfortunately, mainly those who have slightly lower incomes. Our estimate for this year is 2.4% for average annual inflation. In line with these macro-economic indicators, a natural audit of the income side of the budget was made, income is a total of 3.3 billion kuna higher compared to the last rebalancing, especially by apostrophe of tax revenues and contributions, they are somewhere around 2.2 billion higher with that we have, of course, certain differences compared to the previous plan, slightly lower compared to the profit tax plan. The fact is that profit tax for this year is done and established on the basis of business results 2020. We assume that one part of the taxpayers took into account the possibility and what is always at their disposal to taxpayers, which is the correction of individual monthly advances. All this will come naturally for the annual review next year, in the middle of next year, however, this category should be apostrophe of course similar to the contributions that are approximately at plan level. Of the other tax revenues other than excise duties on cars which record the reduction primarily due to the fact that it simply interrupts and suspends and disruptions in supply chains, there has been this longer waiting for car orders, or car purchases, all other categories, and in particular the one that we are not interested in, but we place the most emphasis on it, which is VAT, records more estimates than those rebalances envisaged, and all together when we get to that 3.3 billion total incomes, and 2.2 billion kuna more tax revenues and contributions. As far as the expenditure side of the budget is concerned, I'll start with what's called the so-called budget. general sources, sources affecting the result. So, compared to the plan and all the redistributions that we have made in the meantime is an increase of 7.1 billion kuna, in which, in some ways, apostrophe is being apostrophe, referring to individual and devising breaks just now, the most significant increase on the dissipating side of the budget does not affect the result this year. It's this advance on the purchase of multi-purpose fighter aircraft, aircraft. It is planned in the budget and from the national methodology of the item of expenditure we have to provide these funds, these 2.4 will round up billions of kuna, it affects public debt, the deficit or the result of the budget will be affected in the year when it comes to the delivery of the aircraft itself, so this is a European comparable methodology to all Member States, it is not ours, so we clearly and transparently display the expenditure item just telling you that it does not affect the result, the result will be influenced according to 2023. When it comes to the first delivery of as many planes as the planes of multiple combat will arrive, it will have its reflection. All other items affecting expenditure and affecting deficits. The highest item after that is, of course, an increase for health care. Here's from explaining the pause, and I believe through replicas I think that we will focus on that item, or on that segment. And I was saying that and publicly, it's no secret, and ultimately in front of HS, of course, we have to come to the maximum transparency, by the way, and you have recognized for yourself that, with regular reports, in accordance with the Budget Law, we have prepared a presentation that will give you a better insight into the very movement of the rebalancing which is our topic today, and also what will follow for some I think about 4 weeks when we discuss the budget for 2022. that you have a clearer and more transparent comparison of certain items as they move in relation to, of course, what you get in your papers or what is a standard report. With health care, there are pensions. I have to say for our pensions, we've had a little more indexation than we expected. On the one hand, this is good, for sure, that we all think that I am in the interest and care that pensions are increasing, but the reason is well hidden in some higher inflation than we anticipated. Also, as far as pay is concerned, my colleagues informed me on the home Committee on Finance and the state budget, and some others were apostrophe of this topic and I think for a reason. We have also made it clear when we entered the budget that the funds provided for the increase in salaries were not able to provide on those items for the simple reason why we want to find, from the internal savings at the level of all resolutions, other savings expenditures in order to, of course, meet our obligation and it by the day of today and, of course, by the end of the year, neither will it be questionable. There is also the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as science and most of it for wages, and the Ministry of Agriculture. We will have by the end of the year and some additional intervention measures to help and stimulate certain sectors of our agricultural production, in this particular case, I mean livestock farming first and foremost. Of the other categories you have well apostrophe, the largest reduction is in the division of the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and State Property. Since by the end of the year, according to the dynamics of spending the funds will not be possible to spend, these funds will, of course, be and are foreseen for... in the 2022 budget, so when that dictionary colloquial loser wins, that's exactly what the ministry of the colloquitally said loser is promoting to the winner next year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's primarily about the dynamics of reconstruction and spending money, it wasn't something that we like to say to someone now that bad Maric took something. As far as the overall result is concerned, so you've already quoted well in the reasoning of the breaks, at the level of the state budget, there's an estimate of 4.7% of GDP, but that's just the level of the state budget, here we're only talking about the state budget, an integral part of this report, and the budgets of extra budget users compared to the original plan, and also the rebalancing from the spring of this year, so where a surplus of 427 million kuna of all extra budget users is foreseen, this surplus is now slightly increased to 700 million kuna or 0.2%. We audited the local self-government assessment, that's the part that doesn't get into our debate, but of course it's an integral part of the general government budget. For local self-government, we plan a slightly higher deficit compared to the rebalancing project, and when we add to it all what we are obliged to do in terms of so-called. The adaptation and the European ESA 2010 methodology come to what is, in fact, the most recognizable and one figure that should actually be crucial to all of us because it is comparable to all other EU Member States, which is the deficit, the planned deficit of the general government budget, the consolidated general state for this year of 4.5% of gross domestic product or 18.9 billion kuna. That's what when everything is together I'd say add up and subtract. Now I would just like to apostrophe one important element, which is that despite the fact that this deficit is still above the 3%, it is a very important category of observation where we are and what we are about the share of public debt in GDP. In the presentation I would not like to now perform some kind of cinema, but I think you have received a presentation or you could have downloaded it from these few slides and simply that last slide is the suma sumarum of the entire fiscal policy over the past few years, which has also clearly shown and proved that in function of economic growth, it is in the function of preserving jobs and is the frame to react to the most predictable possible shocks that we have been exposed to. First of all, I mean pandemics and earthquakes. And the fact is 4 years in a row, cumulatively almost 12 percentage points of gross domestic product is public debt reduced. And then came the pandemic and partly the 2020 earthquake that once raised that share of public debt in GDP according to the latest available GDP data nominal published by the State Statistics Institute to 87.3%. You remember the original was even 88.6%, so one time we can say and erase all the effects and more than that, and four years, but the fact is that we haven't done what we've done in the past four years, our public debt would have crossed 100% of GDP. So we know right away what kind of reflections would have had on our reputation in international and domestic financial circles, but more importantly, would reduce the maximum room for our reaction at the very beginning of the pandemic, because as we have determined and decided what is logical, the preservation of human lives and health as priority and all of the measures we took in 2020, above all I think of the conclusion of the economy and society as a whole had an imminent negative repercussion on GDP. To prevent, prevent the potential wave of unemployed who threatened us, and we have a fresh, sad experience from the past crisis, we have put measures into operation immediately. So they reacted in due time and adequately, very generously. We revised our calculation a few days ago of what we like to say to Covid's cost only for the state budget. So that's where we look a little bit, not to say selfishly, not to look at all possible direct and indirect consequences on the economy, but when you look at only the state budget, the total cost of Covid in these two years or slightly less than two years has crossed the figure or the figure of 40 billion kuna. Most of this costs not only relate to the fall in the revenues of the state budget, but mostly to measures to preserve jobs. Direct, but also indirect, part or indirect, which is also important for mentioning, which is taxes and contributes everything that the state has taken over on its own back. Which is fine because we ultimately manage the money of these taxpayers. Now back to the public debt story. So, despite the fact that we are revising the deficit from 3.8 to 4.5% this year, we expect above all a much higher rate of growth compared to expectations of re-declining the share of public debt in GDP to an 83.1 level. These 4.2 percentage points according to the estimates we've seen and other countries will put us among the top 3. So I would say this way to be sure of the very top when we compare EU member states with how much they will reduce the share of public debt in GDP this year. By the way, there are many EU member states that will not be reduced, although this year it will continue to increase the share of public debt in GDP. And I think that this result should be absorbed not only in this numerical part but perhaps more importantly in the fact that we have done and done everything, and I think that according to this, according to the growth rate and towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP can be concluded at this point, it can be concluded, of course, that at this moment we all hope and believe and we want to believe that there will not be any further tightening or composing of the situation itself, but if we are going by this trend which we are now talking about here and economic growth in terms of achieving pre-recession level that we have achieved within a year, and a greater share of reducing the share of public debt in GDP, we can conclude that the effect of Covid was first, however strong and strong was one-time. And that's what maybe the most important thing in this budget rebalancing might be. As for the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, it is, of course, technical, which some of you have apostrophe on the parent board and on the parliamentary committees, so I'm just going to explain those two most important let's just say so. So everything about the financing account is more or less clear according to the new figures we've included in the financing account. We don't have any more significant financing needs by the end of the year, so except for two regular pretty strong auctions and vault records, what we do at the weekly level. The funding needs we have practically realised and solved, of course, we must always be prepared if there are any new circumstances to react. However, I would like to say that there are a lot of local leaders and those MPs who like to observe the budget and through the prism of local self-government, and by this law we are now increasing the total quota of borrowing. You remember we did it last year. Here is clean because of one commission by the end of the year if there is a need for additional borrowing of certain local units from the 3% total for all to 3.5% for all total revenues last year. It is a standard item in the Budget Law, and each year it is confirmed by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget we have now decided, as last year, that we are in a safe zone. Also this last round of unambiguous loans of these 400 million kunas, which the decision was signed the other day and which the funds will be and I am once again using the opportunity now is the procedure of the following, now local heads of cities, municipalities, county, Zagreb City, Krapina-Zagorska, Zagreb and of course Sisak-Moslavinaska are just sending a proposal to the Ministry of Finance for these funds and we approve them. Thus, this total amount will not enter into the total annual commitment of all these units of local, regional or regional self-government for 2021. And the last minute or less than a minute is related to the execution of a half-yearly, this year of course, that report is an integral part of the rebalancing process, but since both the Budget and Procedure Act requires that we say something about it. So in the first six months of this year, the total deficit of the state budget was 9.8 billion kuna or 2.5 percentage points, when we add all of this to the extra budget users to local self-government and all of the coordination that I was just talking about around 9 billion kuna or 2.3 percentage points of GDP. And here, part of the coincidence isn't usually like that, but it turns out only really in those six months achieved the exact half of the total annual deficit, I think it's one of the ririttes I'm probably wrong about, but we're going to find another year in which it was, but in any case, here's the important thing to mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68258	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. We're starting with replicas. There are as many as I've been told for now, aren't there? 44 yes. First up, Comrade Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68259	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister. Some countries you mentioned in your presentation, but some countries are already announcing new closures and stricter measures. I'm interested in the fact that if the Republic of Croatia finds itself in such a situation, God forbid, how much money we're willing to make for new detachments for job conservation, normally evil doesn't triangulate in this rebalancing on the spending side we have an increase in the allocation to support 607 million kuna, so I'm interested by the end of this year, but especially in the new 2022 budget, are we financially prepared in the case of evil not a tribal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68260	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68261	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, I think the very fact that the pandemic not only surprised us in Croatia but in all the world, no one could have surprised her as such, and that we reacted and adapted practically overnight to the emerging circumstances is a clear indication and confirmation that my answer to your question is yes. God forbid I'll say so first and foremost, that there's a re-composition of the whole situation if that's what we have to be and we want to be prepared in any case, both in the budget this year and any other year. And I think it's one of the important definitions and categories of fiscal policy and budget as such. And I'm going to take this opportunity because we've been through a good part of us together here when I look at both the past and in this conference, but I'm going to particularly apostrophe and the last call when all this together has happened to us how high the level of responsibility we've all given together because without that responsibility and that kind of political approach, I think it would be a lot more difficult to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68262	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68263	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. My question is this, Croatia is dying out and this is the fact that Croatia is leaving too many of our citizens, the estimates are almost 250,000 Croatian citizens that have gone out of the country. And now we have a situation that is very important and requires a reaction from the state in terms of demographic policy. My question is, what policies have you made that will stimulate demographic measures? Catalin Novak Ministers look at me, Catalin Novak is Hungarian Minister of the Family 6.2% of Hungary invests in demographics, which is more than 8.5 billion euros to you. It's a demographic specific policy. What does Croatia offer our families to stay here, to grow on their land, on our great-grandfather's land?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68264	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68265	Thank you very much. I just looked at the papers, I listened very carefully to what you were saying. Demography and demographic movements are marked I'd say long ago and before the pandemic itself as a priority, absolutely priority, and I don't think there was anything about it, let's call it a doubt. And a good part of the measures, there is no unique measure or set of measures or magic wand, with all due respect, we follow and watch what other countries do, you took a good example among other things and our northern neighbours who also put it. And we've put a lot in there, but it's not just a guarantee of success. Demography also depends on the economy, so ultimately on the numbers you said you would not now agree with the fact that you characterized it at the beginning, but the fact is that like many other countries and Croats, they were faced with departures in search of some better working conditions, higher wages, etc. So I think the compost of all these measures is tax, budget, but it's also wider. which we need to make as one contribution to demographic recovery. [[The incursion president: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68266	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68267	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. Well, here I would just like to highlight the role of eu funds, especially in the rebalancing, but also in getting out of the crisis. We know that the 2008 crisis practically took us ten years, and now we're going to be two years. There have been some criticism on the side of the opposition that European funds are being used insufficiently, I would like to remind you that last year there was a 17.7 billion kuna planned, this year with a rebalance of 23.6, the next 31.5 billion. 50 billion kunas we got more funds from Brussels than we paid, 122% of us have contracts, so we have a guarantee that we're going to spend everything, and for the first time last week I think we left a statement that in the 10th month at least for the biggest operational program we filled out N+3. How do you see European funds next year and in years and how will they help us on our way into the eurozone?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68268	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68269	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we see them, of course, as one important, increasingly important segment and part of the budget, I will always say, of course, that only one fifth of the total budget, just to point out the importance and importance of taxpayers' money of everything that all Croatian citizens value in the state budget, but what you said from 17 to 23 is indisputable, and in the years that follow, this growth continues in terms of the absorption and use of European funds. I think the rates of bargaining, but even more important steps of realisation, validation, ultimately and withdrawal of funds are actually key indicators that show that all these years we are doing a lot and that there is progress in terms of these first building of administrative capacities, and then the absorption forces of our economy and society to receive and accept such levels of European funds. The following years, when added with the already well-known multiannual financial framework, especially the recovery and resilience mechanism, the Solidarity Fund and the rest We know more than 25 billion euros ourselves. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68270	Thank you Minister, please hold on for a minute because we have very many replicas. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68271	Dear Minister Maric, the European funds are our crutches because due to the continuity of cowardly non-reform economic policies and the enviable level of corruption, Croatia has never managed to walk independently in economic terms. Given what I already pointed out in the break, and I was very specific about the figures within this rebalancing and all the money that within the system of health, universities, the Fund for Reconstruction, museums, archives, we still do not have to pay back because we have not been able to use the Solidarity Fund for the restoration of Croatia. My question is very specific, where do you have the courage to build on the growth of our GDP and the budget for next year on the basis of the withdrawal of funds from the EU and who will be responsible for this already unrestricted grant from the Solidarity Fund and if we fail to achieve this growth in the coming year, who will be in particular?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68272	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68273	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I think as far as responsibility is concerned, I would always and of course say that it's important and that everything as a minister should be watched, started by me first, not the first among ministers, but here's the one standing here in front of you in terms of realisation and results. However, as far as European funds are concerned, it is very clear, so there will be no such neutropic funding because what we did not spend this year or spent will be transferred in the next year, you know for yourself the rules that apply, which is that you also have after the end of the financial year, or the overall perspective, even that period from 3.g. When you spend it. As for this courage, not courage, I mean these are empirical findings, so we've been doing an evaluation and I'm just going to link that segment of the recovery mechanism and resilience to your first thesis on reform. It's simple and extremely transparent that it can't be more than that. As successful as you are in the measures you put in place, 76 reform, 146 investment, you will withdraw the funds. We've evaluated, 1.5% point a year in the first two years is an effect on GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68274	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68275	Art. 1238, the demeaning of parliamentary representatives in the form of the implementation of incomplete data and the deception of the Croatian public. So, I gave concrete information relating to the spending of the Solidarity Fund, and the fact is that our deadline is running out very quickly and we don't know whether or not this halo of Ursula is really going to work out. So the real question is, if we see this data, how can we responsibly argue that something is going to change in the future because we have already proven that we are not doing very well when we talk about... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68276	Thank you very much. You've been warned. Let's move on, Comrade Begonja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68277	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, these other changes and additions to the state budget plan to increase the deficit by about 2.6 billion kuna more than was planned in the first changes and additions to the state budget. I'm curious to know where this new increase in the budget deficit will be financed from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68278	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68279	Well, as well, thank you, well-respected MP, as I will not be here, of course, in any case, to deliver, you are certainly all well-versed and well-known to budgetary policy, but simply put, therefore, every deficit can be done in two ways either from debt or from the sale of property. As regards the sale of assets for this year itself, no more significant is envisaged in terms of some major monetization, what we like to say is whether state assets are financial or, or not financial types, so that a good part as was the case and last year is from debt and all these figures are clearly and unequivocally and transparently visible and are shown in the total public debt data. I was talking about public debt earlier, about its total nominal levels, but also about the share in GDP, so at the end of this year our public debt should be somewhere at about 351 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68280	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68281	Thank you very much. Minister, the budget is concentrated, and this tells you that the only increase in the population by the statistics of the state institution is in the City of Zagreb rapidan. In Slavonia, Zagori, Gorski Kotar, in all rural areas people are moving out. All ministries are in Zagreb, it is concentrated power and economic, and these 2/3 Croatian codes are not, these rural areas, that is more than 2/3 of Croatia, the code is not in Croatia by budget, we have a terrible bad effect. The effect is 275,000 inhabitants less than or 5%, only Zagreb is growing. What are your measures that don't happen? We have a balanced development, it's very important, which are the effects of this because the results are important, and having only a country and a state without a resident you know it's not a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68282	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68283	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, similarly, I would say the question, and then my answer, as well as your colleague from the club, which is that the issue of demographics, and closely related to demographics and even regional development must be at the top of priorities and priorities, priority measures, I would say not only these governments but every government and all those acting in political spectrum. So, as far as the measures themselves are concerned, I'm going to repeat the same thing again, there's no unique measure. You know how much we have tried through tax changes and amendments to the Law on the financing of the unit of local and regional self-government to strengthen these fiscal capacities I have always advocated, so I will say this once again, so we are talking about the revenue side, but at some point we need to know if it has been enough time, two decades has passed, so maybe the moment to do a little review or at least open up a space for some debate whether all these decentralised functions have met their expectations and what we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68284	Thank you. Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68285	Thank you very much. In spite of Covid's pandemic and despite all these devastating earthquakes that we had according to macroeconomic indicators this year, real GDP growth of 9% is foreseen, however, we also have the fact that we have increased budget expenditure this year. I will only list some that I think are very important for the lives of our citizens, above all additional funds for primary and secondary school employees, additional resources in health care, additional pension funds and increased allocations for support for job conservation. And that, in my opinion, is an indicator of the government's responsibility for the sustainable management of public finances, and that is an indicator of the fact that the focus of this government is primarily the preservation of human lives and the preservation of health. And certainly, in the end, what you said about public debt is down by 4.2 percentage points from last year, and it will be 83.1% this year. GDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68287	Thank you well-respected MPs on the replica, or on the comment. Yes, you are in some way and summed up I would say the key challenge of keeping fiscal policy in these circumstances when you have practically opposing goals. So, if you want to ensure and in some way fight against the spread of the virus it is then a decision that was made in time and made at the very beginning of the pandemic, which is to lock down the Colloquitically spoken of our economy, but then you have, of course, negative repercusions to the decline of economic activity and the resulting fall in employment rates, the number of jobs opening up a whole series of additional topics with well mentioned both demographic and regional, social and not to list now. And that's kind of both the main challenge and everything that we do as a government and what we try to do and ultimately we want to balance these opposing objectives under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68288	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68289	Dear Ministers, how well and quality you do your job tells us that at the beginning of this year you planned 148 billion incomes that happened to you, I have to admit to you that your income due to the good economic situation and in the environment and with us who improved after Covid increased 6 billion, but on the other hand, the expenditures you planned for 158 billion increased at the same time by 16 billion 17. My simple question of these coins didn't go to the citizens, these coins didn't go to the economy, when you look at this rebalancing, it's very clear that you've reduced the incentives of the economy by more than 2 billion compared to the original planned or rebalance of the first planned one, that you've reduced the incentives for the citizens, to encourage the contributions that you should have made to the earthquake recovery, you've reduced 90%, where did the money go? What did the citizens get out of these 20 billion? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68290	Here, here's your answer. And my colleague Brumnic for 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68291	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, of course I cannot agree with this finding of yours, because both citizens and the economy, so when we look at what they've gone to or because of which the increased expenditures have been increased, I will once again summed up in the shortest lines. Number one, so something higher indexation of pensions than we predicted, so these are pensioners about 500 million kunas 500 to 600 million kunas. There is, among other things, a measure to preserve jobs. So, for this year, we had only scheduled the first two months covered. You know that for certain segments such as travel agencies, such as occasional transport day today these measures are in effect. Why economic activities, the total cost of Covida is 40 billion of which are measures to preserve jobs over 12 only nets, only nets. So, when you interrupt me with this as much, I guess I didn't insult you now. I'm talking, I'm answering all your questions. So, on the third hand, when you take the health care, health care didn't go the same way, it went for the treatment of Croatian citizens. In which way and how total expenditure in health care is another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68292	Thank you. Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68293	Dear Mr. Minister, you said at the beginning of your presentation that on a daily basis you are engaged and following full finance in the Republic of Croatia, so you mentioned fiscalisation which is very good and I support it, but I am interested in 2020 means last year in Croatian companies that do not have any employees, so you heard me from companies that do not have a single employee who had an income of 20 billion kuna and this is the official FINE report for last year. I wonder if you as a minister recognize it, do you follow as you follow this fiscalization and these companies and do you know that a large part of these companies are closed after a few years? So I'd like to know what you've done as a minister on this matter, and did you include, specifically, this state inspectorate on how to handle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68295	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm sure he's the one we're dealing with. So when you ask if we follow, we follow. These data are officially available, but of course we're looking at both these companies you're talking about without or with one employee and so on to the biggest ones. The same is the treatment of all tax authorities. I will not enter the department of the State Inspectorate, I will speak from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance and all tax authorities. I Tax Administration as the first, but also customs services, where necessary, financial inspectorate, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, equal treatment since the law allows both the establishment of a firm and no employees. Therefore, no legal act does so as such, and then, in accordance with these laws and tax authorities, they act among other things. If you or anyone else or tax authorities establish certain irregularities, they certainly need to and that their task is to react. You report they will react or will detect it earlier according to their procedures and react the same as they treat large, medium, small companies equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68296	Thank you. Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68297	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers in these challenging times certainly none of the 151 MPs here today would like to be in your place if the economy, the health system, tax or rational management of finances should be preserved. You yourself said in your debate that the cost of Covid was almost 40 billion kuna in less than two years. All of this wouldn't have been easy if it hadn't been for several previous rounds of tax reform, so we can see that over the previous five rounds of tax reform 10 billion kunas have been disbursed by the economy, which is our fellow citizens. This summer, however, about 150,000 young people received income tax returns as a result of the exemption of course from the income tax of young people. Scholarships for deficiting professions in craft schools have increased, of course, the minimum wage since next year And from it will be increased. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] and minimum fee for student... [[Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Maximchuk.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68298	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68299	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have also well summed up and recognized these conflicting interests again, but at the same time you have in some way recognized all of our efforts and activities that as much as possible under the given circumstances and with all the restrictions we have still manage the situation. However, you said well and what preceded the covid itself, you know we went through the usual procedure every year somewhere in the summer was a public debate, and then in two parliamentary readings on tax changes and there were various comments, criticisms, something and praises, but in general we opened the topic and I think we all eventually made one useful thing together and that was about an additional answer and this question where certain money went. Well, the intention was, after years of increasing and introducing new taxes, that we were actually a government that would tax-deliver both citizens and businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68300	Comrade Zekonović, come in. My colleague Zekanovic is not here, losing his right to the replica. Comrade Mandaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68301	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here's this rebalancing by about a billion kuna if I'm not mistaken, we're increasing pay allocations, what does an official, which is indirectly to primary and secondary schools, and now that's an amount of over 30 billion kuna at an annual level and all that is expensive, whether we're staying at that level, is that or we're still expecting an additional trend and what dynamics do we have up there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68302	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68303	Thank you very much. For this year it is the amount that we have ultimately respected all this time and certain arrangements and agreements despite repeated and frequent and court lawsuits and so forth. You can't solve everything overnight and all the anomalies and some problems from the past, but we keep open dialogue and transparent dialogue with the social partners all the time. This will also be in the period ahead of us, we have characterized that on the subject of demographics above all, but also some others, it is important that both the state and the public sector be one of those who will give a certain incentive to the total growth of the mass, i.e. the height of the salaries and standards of the citizens. Of course where we're lucky to have room for more, but the circumstances as they are you've seen for yourself over the past few years, so it wasn't exactly easy to provide funds for these salary increases, but here we are. And of course, as far as our further discussion and dialogue with the social partners is concerned, he will continue to be transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68304	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68305	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. We have heard for a year that Andrej Plenkovic saved Croatia because he secured billions of eu funds, and now, in fact, the fact is that we are unable to withdraw eu funds. This is exactly what I support by saying that you have reduced the budget for co-financing of EUR 206 million in projects. You've also reduced the SAFU budget by 6 million kuna as if we don't need an increase in the ability to withdraw those funds and that part really doesn't make sense to me. And what I'm curious about is the amount of projects that won't be implemented since it wasn't able to withdraw these 206 million kuna funds, if the proportion of funding is somewhere between 10% and 15% correct me, I estimate that it's about a billion and a half projects that won't happen exactly like this, as you've shown by reducing the budget for co-financing by eu funds. Who's going to answer for it, and if it's them? the means to be channelled into health care or to patch holes in health care? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68306	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68307	Thank you very much. So what will not be spent in this year as a total multi-annual financial framework, and thus the Solidarity Fund, I will use this replica to re-deliver these data and to correct myself from before. So, you did a good count of, of course, that domestic component on average 15%, so now plus, minus one contract to contract, 25.5 billion somewhere now we're on something below 24 billion for this year, but that doesn't mean that that money as such won't be spent. It is transmitted next year, similar to the Solidarity Fund. We've had 2 billion 226 million planned for this year at the Solidarity Fund, but that doesn't mean that that money stays spent, it's going to be as planned, and it's already in the budget for 2022. I can accept this argument by you and the distinguished MPs before which she commented and some others that there should certainly be control mechanisms because ultimately there are European institutions as well as ours who control it and all together. We need to strive to get as much resources as possible to withdraw. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68308	Thank you very much. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68309	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. In fact, there's one item that pops up for an increase in health care of 1.6 billion kuna, and when you... you touched that once at the time, you even here's what came out in the media that actually one part of the operation was shrinking in hospitals, and now we see that there's an increase in one part of the expenditure, so I'm wondering if it's about the debt to large-scale drugs? I would also point out that if you've thought about maybe another model let's say different expenditures and that the cuts in the state budget since we have over 1,400 state-owned companies and a good part of them are losers, did you think about reforming something like that and in general what is your view here since you're the finance minister and that in fact all these financial issues are most hitting you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68310	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68311	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm going to paraphrase the words of one of the late, but great state officials from the 1990s and my professor who said, there's no budget that health care can't spend. So for this year when we add it all together, and these are all items from contributions to health insurance, transfers from the state, additional supplementary health care, and everything that comes from sales, etc., etc. We come up with 38 billion kuna, which when you put in a ratio with the estimated GDP is almost 10.9 or sorry when you add that private part, because in Croatia somewhere around 17, according to the estimates of relevant experts dealing with health problems or analysts, so when you add that private part, you come to a figure of 10.9% of GDP. It's not quite as little as that it's very comparable to the economically strongest countries for those who are the most isolated for that particular health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68312	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68313	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Maric, therefore in the most difficult times since the time of the Homeland War, crisis management has been strategically affected. And what I have to say is that the government has stood behind all entrepreneurs and workers bravely and vigorously to help those in need. So 700,000 workers were helped, 120,000 employers for which a total of about 18.5 billion kuna was paid. The result of all this concern and strategic governance is what you said today, and that's a reduction in public debt, that's an increase in GDP, and when we talk about bad examples of crisis management, I think it's worth reminding exactly that in one other rebalance in the '14th year 4 billion kunas were cut out from another pension column to, in order to patch up the budget and we had 400,000 unemployed because the job conservation measure Activated only 4,000 times in the entire term. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68314	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68315	Thank you, well-respected MPs, colleague Aladrovic and we in the government are also reporting on labour market data because what I like to say from all macro-pointers to say that the pay side is still the most important. That's what citizens are most interested in. And giving that kind of parallel and comparison to the previous crisis does not diminish the natural effort and the pawnage of all who were then faced with it I would say a couple of excellencies of the global crisis, the largest of the 30s century, but the fact is that the figures are actually best confirmed and that in that past crisis it took us almost 11, 10,5 exactly years to reach the pre-recession level here we are practically in the year, but even more important than that, this particular data on the preservation of jobs, or about that data. Because unfortunately we have to say that we didn't pay among other things this job-preservation measure would have to pay them for another vision, which is like a fee for the unemployed. We were aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68316	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68317	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the most significant increase in expenditure compared to the current plan in 2021 goes among other things to the area of health. You have also announced in the media that it is worth a billion and 600 million kuna, and now I have raised little, the recovery of the debts of hospitals 736 million kuna, the transfer of budgets to HZZO 700 million kuna. So then KBC Rijeka direct capital investment 67 million kuna and an increase in salaries for overtime in health care 64 million kuna. And with all that effort, it turns out to be a million 564 million kunas. Is there still some items in there or have you guys got your big arms round to a billion and 600? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68318	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68319	I don't.../incomprehensible/... esteemed representative thank you very much for the replica, it's not really my job to be too hot-tempered so I can confirm something else in that part. It's all in there, you've done it in orderly analytically. You also mentioned the long drugstore I've said a lot of times, as on that famous Assembly Health Committee, where you were present, to where happiness would be if only debts and liabilities to wholesales and especially those old ones were a health problem. It is, of course, those obligations that arise new, but also a whole series of other things that concern the very functioning of the health system. I have now just before on the previous replica or one of the previous replicas summed up all what is practically this year's budget of health care that takes both health insurance and supplementary and transfers from a country with different visions. You know for a fact that since who's the founder so once we have a transfer through help within the general state, when we have for local hospitals when the material expenditure is now what we call this so-called state hospital so-called then we show them there. All clear numbers, transparent No hiding. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68320	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68321	Good afternoon, today at 5 per day, on 185 people on respirators in our hospitals, of which more than 80% of the unvaccinated spends about 5 million kunas. So, about 4 million let's say it goes to those that haven't been vaccinated. Don't you think the responsibility of this government is for expenses because it failed to split up a sufficient number of people? Italy, Portugal, Spain has reduced the number of people in charge, we are with Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine Croatia is the 15th in the world by death to 100,000 people. This government has failed in this regard. Do you think it should have meant doing more to avoid this kind of cost, from your perspective it's really a cost, from some other perspectives it's a really different, human question, but when we put the idea of having a well-occupied health care worker's term then you answered that we don't have any money, this is where your money leaks. If that's what we're looking at from that perspective. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68322	Here's your answer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's a colleague of Sacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68323	Well, a colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure in the part where he insults the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the right to their choice and orderly pay funds for their health insurance...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68324	A fellow Sacic who was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68325	Well, she hurt, insulted the entire Croatian people who are currently not in the position of the ruling headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68326	So do not associate with Sacic. You know that you have earned a reminder. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68327	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm going to take this opportunity to answer your line. A total of 3.2 billion kuna estimates the cost of Covid on the health system when we add everything from the beginning of the tests, disinfection to the vaccine. When you mention the government's responsibility I could agree with that if it were, and it wasn't, the fact that the government didn't provide vaccines. Then I think it would be the government's responsibility. Then we should answer to Croatian, Croatian citizens why we were unable, in a state of financial and reputation in no way to provide vaccines. We have provided vaccines more than enough, however, of course it is not in any of those countries with which we compare mandatory vaccination, so of course it is at the will of the citizens and their decision. We try to promote everything in different ways and many other social layers contribute to it, but the facts are what they are, and that's at the level of fissure we're not at the top, but we're in the bottom half.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68328	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68329	Dear Minister. I believe that you are familiar with the fact that in the first half of this year, around a billion and 745 million euros have been found abroad by workers working abroad for Croatian families in Croatia. At the same time, in the name of foreign compensation, Croatian citizens received about a billion and 67 million euros, which actually accounts for around 21 billion and 97 million kuna, and there is actually an answer to where personal consumption grows and where we actually grow income from VAT. And now one question, when we look at the budget and we look at the budget items and the project approach, we see that in all ministries, our project costs are going down, so the projects don't go any further, and even the curricula reform hasn't continued, or it hasn't been spent. what should be spent. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68330	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68331	Thank you very much, esteemed repatriator. So some of your colleagues from other clubs know how to put this topic as relevant and I absolutely agree. This is the balance of payments from abroad in terms of the transfer of our citizens who work temporarily or permanently and similar abroad is the item that in the payment balance of the Republic of Croatia since our independence, so you have always had one and the same situation for 30 years. We have a stock exchange deficit, we have a surplus exchange of services, primarily because of tourism and transport, we have a deficit on the account of income whether more foreign companies work in Croatia than Croatians abroad, and we have a surplus on these transfers, because there are more Croatian citizens abroad than there are in Croatia. These are facts that are more than clear every year, but this when you say that only that is the reason for the increase in personal consumption, the VAT revenues for this year are $56 billion, that's a little bit more than this figure that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68332	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68333	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Minister. So we have another rebalancing, and there's that saying, or curse, that God lives in challenging times, we can't say that we don't live and we see exactly what it is. And this rebalancing is the result of two facts, one fact is to fight the crown so no matter how it happens, and the other fact is to rebuild and if someone thinks that the renovation has or doesn't have enough is to see the items in the rebalancing and to see that there is actually no renewal. But my question won't be about rebuilding, so I'll wait for the budget, but my question will be about the crown or the covid. We have the fact that we have ordered a sufficient number of vaccines, even more so, Croatia should have empathy for other countries and donate these vaccines to some other countries, and it is better to split anyone in this world than to fail, but we have the case for about a month that Moscow is being vaccinated in Zagreb, so Moscow travel agencies have travel arrangements in Zagreb, I warned Minister Berosa if you knew anything about it and what you were doing? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68334	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68335	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I think that this too I would say this may sound too harshly like a policy of the same vaccination in part directed amongst other things to our economy. You know, along with this solidarity we have shown, which is that the countries in the environment, above all BiH, but also many other countries, some that rarely, in some of our lifetimes and say or find on the map, donated vaccines which I think is a good indicator of the high solidarity of Croats, but ultimately, it would be even better with all this, if we had more fissure if I thought that experts were more than clear and unequivocally saying that vaccination was exactly the best tool, the best weapon in the fight or war against the pandemic. These individual cases you're talking about through the media space I personally read something about, and they gave you arrangements and some kind of contribution to our economy, so maybe you should look at them in the context of the overall economic activity as well as during the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68336	A fellow Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68337	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there's an enigma here in your numbers. So the cumulative deficit in these two years is fifty billion kuna, on the other hand, the expenditure side has grown from 140 to 173 billion kuna, so a huge increase. On the other hand, in the projection of the next three years, you say that these expenditures will actually be completely frozen and not only that, but in 2024, there will be 7 billion kunas less than they are on this rebalancing scale. It's a really big enigma for me. It would be something that has not been seen in the Croatian state in these 30 years of the existence of the Croatian state. So, I'd like you to explain to me, to your colleagues and to the public what's this about? Has the government finally made a decision to go into serious reforms that will keep the expenditure under control?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68338	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68339	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, it was similar to an adjudication or in some way commentary on that budget of 2016. It was then proposed for the first time that the budget which had frozen the expenditure side of the budget and it was a clear message to us that in the first year of the mandate we want to turn this trend around and put focus on what we still believe is the key to the success of public finances and fiscal policy that is the expenditure side of the budget. Incomes are there and must be there and should make their contribution, which is the responsibility of the tax authorities above all, we do not run away from it at all. First of all, we at the Ministry of Finance collect according to the legal regulations effectively and equally treated etc. However, expenditures are right that key, this difference that you're talking about in the years that follow is whether we're looking at a base relative to this year that we really have beyond all of the intended expenditure on health care and, of course, in the period that follows with regard to expenditure, I think we should first and foremost look at how rational I think we should look at it as and how rationally we manage the funds that we have primarily in secondary health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68340	Thank you. Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68341	Thank you. Dear Ministers, here I will return to the topic of health, you have said here in response to a colleague that the overall costs of health care are another topic, but here is whether it can become since every year with each rebalancing, every budget costs increase even this year we cannot justify them with just a pandemic and Covid. So when one day you're finally going to say quite a bit of an increase in that black hole that turned our health care into, that's a lot of incompetence for people who manage health care to actually manage that system. And as you comment on this reform, the alleged reform is whether or not centralised that, to be better announced, will it have any impact on the reduction of health expenditure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68342	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68343	Thank you very much. Well, I don't get there in 60 seconds, but here you are now, I said it's a different topic, so not health care is quite a high-ranking topic, it's a non-essential priority or regular number, but here, but by touching in some way, in answer to this previous question, a previous replica of Greek representatives, so among other things until 2024, for example, the Solidarity Fund will no longer be in the budget, we hope that we will never see it again, or that there will be no more earthquakes and similar elemental disasters. As far as health care is concerned, I mean clearly, transparently that it can't be more transparent. So we've counted all the expenditures, all the expenditures per category, I've said since we've been working on budget preparation that this year we'll come by all accounts, and we're at $9.1 billion of that only parts of the transfer from the state's budget for the recovery of liabilities and debts in health care to keep payment deadlines at 180 days of hospitals and 120 days of pharmacy. And you know as well as I do that they are still the law, beyond the law of prescribed deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68344	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I would only ask you to explain the loan reduction item for HABOR's liquidity of billions and a half kuna. What's going on here? So a billion-and-a-half kuna is now less actually HABOR's liquidity insurance policy, does that mean, and since you're the chairman of the HABOR Supervisory Board, and that these funds have been approved and fully supported to be given to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in order to overcome this Covid crisis, we know that banks have actually closed all possible funding channels to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that only the state and HABOR have remained to finance and only through HAMAG, so I'm interested in this reduction in the position of billions and half kuna in position. And what is this 364 million kuna capitalization, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68346	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68347	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I really thank you for this replica to clarify that part. Therefore, the first and main clear conclusion of HABOR has no liquidity problems. So, as far as their credit activities are concerned, we're going to believe that today, too, we're going to talk about it. HABOR'S HERE, HABOR'S STANDING. So last year, we gave that liquidity injection after Covid's outbreak because, as for local self-government and HZO, we estimated that HABOR in that first step, the first run-in of Covid would be a little harder to access liquidity than the Central State does. And that turned out to be true. However, in the meantime HABOR has opened credit lines with international financial institutions, here after the second time and the Council of Europe Development Bank with the World Bank, the EIB has recently shown its conference here, also very clearly and with all this the HABOR is one of our key levers in the realisation of the recovery and resilience mechanism. So HABOR has more than enough liquidity, thank you for asking that and through the Croatian Parliament promoting the role of HABOR above all according to segment [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Small and medium but generally our entrepreneurship. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68348	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68349	Thank you. Dear Ministers, so if we look at nominal GDP will be around 422 billion kuna, 356 billion kuna is a public debt cca that is 70,000 kuna per citizen. I'm talking about public debt, if I've calculated it very quickly, and I think I am. Now, in the last two years of your term, we see that 50 billion kuna cca speak an increased deficit. Which is true, maybe a little less, but very close to 50 billion. And now we have a slight inflation, now we have demand inflation, and that's where we can agree, is how it can be prevented under quotes by inflationary movements, so either by monetary policy or by partial and fiscal policy. That's where you agree with me. And the main stabiliser was supposed to be you, and it wasn't because you increased the expenditures of the state budget. You're responsible, I don't think you're personally. Is it Andrej Plenkovic or someone for crawling growth? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Overturning inflation growth. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68350	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68351	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I think that really in a minute about monetary and fiscal issues, I can't get to inflation, but there will probably be opportunities and then we can discuss it. You know the monetary policy itself in one of the initial articles, I think 3. corresponds to the Croatian Assembly, of course the price stability is highlighted. For us, the stability of prices, together with all that we are leading as such, is the point that both monetary and fiscal policies each in its own part are synergy by acting among other things. I'll be quick to refer, you've calculated exactly 422 billion kuna 422.8 billion kuna should be the nominal GDP for this year. So when these calculations of ratios are done, etc., but as far as this public debt is concerned, here's where I'm going to use these 10 seconds just to tell you. The 286.7 billion kuna was public debt in late 2015, we're practically 3 in '16, '17. And in '18. nominally, nominally held public debt at that level, nominally Covid, unfortunately, wiped it all out. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68352	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68353	Dear Ministers, the topic of health care, we have seen some announcements related to reforms of the health system that the system will centralize, and I therefore believe that the quality of services will be reduced to patients. However, speaking of some reforms in healthcare, I probably hope that at least cost rationalisation was also considered. So I'm wondering if anyone from the Ministry of Finance was present when the health reform was designed and suggested how business could be rationalized. And if he was present whether we could know more about what the next steps would be, and if he wasn't present, then I'm curious about why he wasn't there or if it's even possible that in such an important reform when we're talking no one from the Ministry of Finance is there to say his opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68354	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68355	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I think you've done the same as apostrophe, and you're on the trail, and you're standing there, even though there's no discussion now, now I'm going to speak and advocate the position of the Ministry of Finance in relation to, as the government's position is very clear. So, we have shown ourselves with several interventions on the revenue side of the budget that we are contributing to stabilisation, consolidation of the health system, but we are aware that this cannot be a lasting solution and this has been shown and confirmed. And that is why, of course, the government's view is that, above all, health reform will be focused on the cost side of making it more efficient, rational, fairer, we want to say, so that we can have taxpayers' money, all in order for this health system to be on financially sustainable feet. The Ministry of Finance will be involved in the moment when the Ministry of Health is all together, in the discussion of our internal and when there is, of course, this opportunity when everything agrees and when it is publicly presented to pass every tiny detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68356	Thank you. My fellow Perky Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68357	Thank you, dearly respected Minister, I must say that I am not happy with the fact that this budget rebalancing that the funds are related to the Ministry of Education for nearly half a billion kunas since we know that absolutely every one, every form of investment in education is the best stock for the future. You are a Brodjan as I am, and I believe you are familiar with the Milan Amrush Elementary School Construction Project, and for him, the funds have also been denied with this rebalancing. And here I'm asking you why, from year to year, these funds are being cut short, it's building a primary school for children with developmental difficulties, and here's when this project will finally come in line, given that the amount in the budget is being secured for 4 years, and then the rebalancing of this one is being denied again. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68358	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68359	Thank you, well-respected MPs, I mean the budget and total allocations for science and education this year as regards rebalancing are increasing by some 654 million kunas. Otherwise, the Ministry of Science and Education I must say on behalf of my colleague Fuchs a few things I think they are one of those ministries with the MUP that have above average share of the mass of salaries in the total budget given the number of teachers, professors and there are in some way specific and then their budgets a lot I would say limited to certain capital activities. However, on the other hand, I will say that exactly the Ministry of Education I think is a strong, perhaps even the best part of the recovery and resilience mechanism that sees a really complete system of education from kindergarten and preschool age, in primary school to higher education. As for Brod and our school for children with special needs Milan Amrus, things have been going on for the past few days because there are certain complications, but I hope that we will soon have and more concrete results, very soon. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68360	Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68361	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have one inconclusive explanation on page 13 that health expenditures have been increased by 2.3 billion kuna and that most of it goes to 736 million for the rehabilitation of health institutions, 64 for overtime medical staff and 700 million for HZZO. And that all amounts to a billion and a half, so just as far as this 800 to 2.3 goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68362	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68363	It refers to, thank you well-respected MPs, most of it, most of it refers precisely to the regulation of these obligations to wholesales. And then there's actually two ways to bring those funds down. I just said something about it. So when we transfer so-called. We can do this to the state hospitals through the state budget's position on the items of material expenditure, when we transfer so-called. local hospitals to those who are founders and owners of the county then it goes with an item of assistance within the general state. In the end, it all comes together and gets to the same thing at the end. So, you're all as good as your colleague just now you've counted everything well, all of these are items that are clearly numbered here, total of actually the total increase for health care most of it refers to the regulation of these obligations to wholesales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68364	Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68365	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, this Covid crisis has been going on for almost 2 years and is primarily health care, but it is also a financial crisis and I agree with you when you said that the responsible management of the financial and tax reforms you have implemented from 2016 to 2019 were a prerequisite that you can react at all in early 2020 and help our entrepreneurs save jobs. I must also conclude that when these measures were imposed that the opposition had criticised it and had a dilemma as to whether the government or state should help the private sector and help directly at that time. If this were not done then, and this is not done all the time until now, we could not talk about a 9% GDP increase and ultimately a reduction, a percentage reduction in the total public debt in GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68366	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68367	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so I would say here and the next time a comment on the subject exactly how challenging it is, but on the other hand it is responsible and important to ultimately balance between these as I like to call them opposing goals. None of which, of course, happened by some coincidence and these economic indicators we see, of course, every economic growth in Croatia as well as in other countries, the greatest merits go to our economy and, of course, this way I thank them both and congratulate them, but also to all the gatherings that we do in one way or another both directly and indirectly. The government's responsibility and role is to work to create conditions, improve and improve the investment climate. We've done it before, Covid. We're trying to do it now during Covid. I think we've confirmed that what we said at the very beginning of Covid, there's no state without an economy, but there's also no economy without it. strong countries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68368	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68369	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers Croatia will not be saved by withdrawing funds from European funds, but by implementing reforms, and by establishing a better quality of governance on the one hand and by implementing better control from the other. Neither of these two properties has a Croatian public finances system. When we talk about governance, I think that Croatia is the champion of collective lawsuits filed by public officials from different parts of the system, whether it is military workers, police officers or others. So I'm going to ask you for an explanation of the increase of the item within the Ministry of Justice and Administration, in position 676, so the execution of powerful court decisions, settlements and executions from 6.5 to 42 and 800 thousand kuna. Is it that the loss of public workers’ disputes has not been well anticipated again?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68370	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68371	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here, when you started with your replica, I came to even one temptation to agree with you, the part that refers to structural reforms for the period ahead of us is of unsustainable importance, in that part we can agree on because, together with the combination of the mentioned mix of fiscal and monetary policy, structural policies are gaining greater and greater emphasis. As for these arbitration and judicial proceedings, therefore, we have situations that do not rarely sue the state, the state may lose this dispute, it can get it, it can be settled. So in two of these three cases, there was a cost determined for the state budget, there were no number of situations where, given the duration of the judicial process, the amount of interest that the government then paid in the position on behalf of taxpayers was greater than the principal's own item. It's the same for you in this budget, that is, this rebalancing. We've predicted everything that's known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68372	Thank you. Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68373	Dear Minister. A few of you and I from this pay phone were discussing the Center for Education and Education, Čakovec, when I was giving amendments, and you replied that the funds were secured. Unfortunately, I've seen the funds removed, that you've secured 1,500 kuna for the Education and Education Center, just enough to leave that item. On September 27, 2021, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education at the Ceremony, or the 50th anniversary of the Centre for Education and Education, boasted that the funds had been secured. Now I'm offering, or I think there are two options. Or you don't know, not yourself, you don't know what's going on in your closets or you're lying facelessly to the harm of those who need it most, and these are children with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68374	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68375	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, the subject is partly familiar to me, i.e. we have talked about it before and of course how I will forward the same question, i.e. your replica to the Resort Ministry, therefore, providing the funds is only one of the things, to recognize the item in the budget, of course the problem of realising it, as well as the numerous other projects and this, distinguished representative also asked a similar topic in Slavonski Brod, I can also tell you, therefore, the funds as such in the given circumstances, even given the importance of such a single project, the total financial expenditure, or expenditure should actually be a minor problem, and they are a minor problem, it is more of course, that everything that is necessary for a particular project to collect and to go into realisation. Like the one you're talking about in Chakovec, and the one we talked about just before your colleague and I in Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68376	Comrade Zmaic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68377	Dear Minister. These changes and additions to the 2021 budget planned to increase the funding for the Ministry of Agriculture of 221.5 million kuna. Agriculture is an activity that is linked to the village and rural space, and I therefore believe that the funds, planned by that, will be directed towards our young and small family farms, who live and want to live on agriculture, who want to preserve and improve our rural areas and who have not been raised despite these challenging times and all the problems they face. Can you tell us what measures and activities are foreseen to increase agricultural funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68378	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68379	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Most of the funds go to support pig farming, i.e. livestock farming, and the part where we look at the overall increase predominant, but there are also increases related to rural development measures and others that should ultimately help the Croatian village and agriculture. I would say, when we say help to the village, so simply be what his role is. And that is to finally make it a little bit clearer, unequivocal all together, as we did at the beginning of the Covid pandemic when the subject of self-sufficiency was updated. How important is the Croatian village and agriculture, including all its constituents. And I think the Minister of Agriculture, along with her team, is thinking it through. Recently, the days of agriculture, in some ways, have been awarded some rewards, just to recognize the efforts and efforts and success of people who work hard in agriculture, but we still have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68380	Thank you, colleague Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68381	Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. As far as rebalancing is concerned, she would really like a prominent Zažela programme, which I spoke about the other day, and which is a commendable project in which a low-employable group of women has been given the opportunity to hire and care for those who need help. So the funds have been increased and it really is very commendable. She would like to point out that it is a concern that cannot be stopped by the project and that several months when women are jobless and people are not too long to wait for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68382	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68383	Thank you well-respected MPs on the replica, or on the comment. And you have recognized and you know, I am certain from countless examples, of how important this project is, here I think there are even more invited than me to respond to this replica and former minister and colleague of my Pavić, who among other things on this project I would say wherever and travel through Croatia and get exactly the sympathy of women, but others who were among other users of this and similar programs that really mean a lot. And I think that the problems of the labour market that I have a number of times apostrophe, and here I will particularly look at women's problems or their participation in the labour market and especially our fellow citizens in the middle and older age where, among other things, it is very, very important to ensure that they have, of course, adequate working conditions or jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68384	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68385	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister. Of course the weight is always more at the expense, please remind us how much savings were made just on interest on loans and bonds given the credit rating and given the efforts you've made to do just that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68386	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68387	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and presidents of our parent committee, that you know that on this committee we speak and speak on this subject very often, and that was one of the things we apostropheeded at the very beginning of our mandate. I will remind you of the 11.7 billion kuna that is the ESE data so what we publish and report to Eurostat was the cost of the total cost of interest in one financial year, 11.7 billion kuna. At that time, it was almost 3.5 percentage points of GDP, at which point it was almost a complete budget of the Ministry of Science and Education, even sport was either under that auspices. Of those 11.7 every year, on average, 800 to 900 million less in the last year and even this pandemic 2020. 7.4 billion kuna, so 4 almost 4.5 billion kuna, we cut interest costs. I'm always answering and I'm going to say that space I still think we can still reduce our risk premium. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68388	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68389	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. You are very skilled at baratate with relative and absolute figures, so public debt until 2024 falls as a percentage of GDP, but wars as mushrooms after rain if we look at it at an absolute amount, so it should amount to the data that you have provided us with 381 billion kuna. This is a 30% increase compared to 293 billion as it was in 2019, which means that if we look at the projections of the population given to us by the DZS and if there are 4 million of us then every child born will owe us 95,000 kuna. On the other hand, you're supposed to be frozen, so I have to ask a question like Private V, how come these expenses are frozen, and the public debt goes to unprecedented heights?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68390	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68391	Thank you very much. Well, the public debt is the result of the overall budget score and most of this nominal increase in public debt is hidden in your deficits and there are no excessive secrets. I've just responded to one previous line of deficits you can finance or increase debt or sell property. As for the sale of assets, I think in budget figures for both this year and for the next three years, I would say a shy amount and a total figure, but I think at some point we'll come up with this topic and a little bit more actively talk all together, all together and give some positive examples of what it means when you activate state property, not only land and real estate, but first of all I mean financial property. As far as this period is concerned, and that table you're looking at, or slide of the last one that is the taste of the whole story, that's exactly what you can see, this first half or the first part of that table where we've practically held even a nominal public debt frozen. It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68392	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68393	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric, five years of structural reforms are announced, and the only thing that we unscathed rulers of the European continent have been talking about is this perception of corruption, so no structural reform has been implemented by the pension system, the health system, and you yourself have spoken about it on a parliamentary committee, it has turned out that it has been seen that it was unplanned you didn't know whether it was recorded or not. I don't know what happened next, but the fact is that these reforms have not been implemented and in fact one policy of cease-fire is being conducted without any vision, except now it's collapsing to introduce the euro, and serious economists like Maruska Vizek are talking about that right now is not a good time for that, probably to be some kind of Plenkovic Legacy of some kind of legacy. What structural reform has the government in which you are, I would say the most important minister, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68394	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68395	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, the most important structural reform we've implemented is public finance reform. All together, when I sum up what I was just talking about, which was a well-respected representative, if we hadn't done it, our response to the pandemic would have been where and where smaller and weaker, we'd have a much bigger problem than what's going on. Now of course there are other areas, the mentioned health care certainly, the public administration, the public administration you remember, and we've been conducting these dialogues ourselves, although a little bit less when we were in the coalition, and a little more when we split up, but how important it is that we have an adequate system and wages and rewards, but also the whole functioning public and state administrations, if we all said we all agreed, it's important, less important how much it costs, it's more important that we all get for it together. Of course, with the already mentioned judiciary and education that should be continued, and then I will refer to the previous replica again, I think that, among other things, the problem of public enterprises is so colloktially spoken by state-owned companies also should be one of the integral areas. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68396	Thank you. Comrade Hrebak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68397	Dear Minister Maric. You yourself have said that you have been very much and I agree with you made on the transparency of the state budget and the way it explains this budget rebalance, I congratulate you on that. But you know what I'm most interested in is just the transparency of what HSLS has insisted on, I'm going to take this opportunity and ask you a question, so when can we finally expect the Budget Act that will finally solve this story, and which indeed the mayors and mayors and mayors will be obliged to report transparently on the budget directly on the pages of their cities so that we can actually do something similar to what the city of Bjelovar did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68398	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68399	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, there are some MPs here at HS who don't want to see me too much in one day, so they resent, and now among other things, the answer to your replica, so I have to dose it because it's not... The budget law with all these points that we have today, we're going to bring it separately. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he's currently in public consultation and in public debate, so I'm going to take the opportunity and point out to all the other parliamentary deputies that, I think they're being activated in the sense that if they're interested, and I believe they're interested in looking. After that, it goes into government procedure and then we plan to bring it into two fairly short readings, in the constituency of two readings, but by the end of the year, in any case, to discuss it, correct it, and vote it, because it is one among other things and the criterion in the NPOO, but more importantly what you said, with problems and transparency and for local budgets, there is a whole series of provisions that should improve our budget process. Well, once again, I call upon everyone to make their contribution to the debate on this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68400	Thank you. Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68401	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I'm sure you'll agree that with the epidemic after the earthquake recovery, one would say of the primary things that the state budget needs to deal with, so it certainly concerns, the data on the reduction of the items on the recovery of earthquake damage, I'm now specifically talking about culture, for museums and galleries, for, for, for, for archives in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture and Media. These are reductions that are almost half and over, more planned means not to mention the figures that you know very well now, we are aware of all the problems together, the collection of building materials, the problems of public procurement, the collection of documentation, but since the earthquake has been the first one in Zagreb for a year and a half, nothing is actually happening, whether these funds of the Solidarity Fund will be used, these are of course the concerns of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68402	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68403	Thank you very much. Ha I think that my answer, not only now to your current question of the distinguished MPs and replicas simply this should in any case and must be a confirmation that the funds will be used because here a few days ago we heard that we also received additional approval for an additional 300m euros related to the recovery from the earthquake, let's say Colloquial or unify Banovina, so Sisak-Moslavina County predominantly, but also some surrounding ones. As for the individual funds that are true, so for this year with these two billion 200 funds are now planned to be 886, they are only transferred to 2022 where the total amount is 4 billion 608, of which a significant part refers, of course, to the Ministry of Culture and Media for the following year. That's 742 million after 434 this year is how the funds were planned. The rest of it's just one symbolic little piece for 2023, so we figure we'll spend it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68404	Thank you. Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68405	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I think that anyone who in his working life at least once worked the budget was the municipal one of the smallest or city, county, and especially the state should know how serious and complex the process it requires, it's like a blood stream actually a system of state or city or county and requires actually serious this debate and balancing each item and every segment of that circulation to be satisfied. When we look at this budget, this is a rebalance to the budget in fact, and when we see that 607 million kuna is foreseen for the preservation of jobs due to the covid, 672 million kuna for pensions, 700 kuna for the cost of covid, 735 million kuna for the rehabilitation of the health system, 928 million kuna for primary school employees... billions of kuna for the purchase of aircraft, says in fact how much the Croatian government and the ministry have taken care of social sensitivity, the care of employees, the care of those most vulnerable [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, the security of the state through the planes. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68406	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68407	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yeah, right, you're right, here's a few replicas I'd say with similar messages, but of course I don't think we're going to complain about it right now, or ask for it, but this compassion you've said well, so budget processes and in normal circumstances, and in what we call peacetime, it's not very simple, let alone when we have a situation like this, but it's the responsibility of us as a government first of all, the budgetary users, that in the context of our ability we plan a budget. And I will use this replica of yours with my colleagues, the secretary of state and the chief of state and all my colleagues, above all and my colleagues in the Treasury and at the Ministry of Macro-Economic Analysis, but also to all my fellow ministers, of course, at the head of the government, to thank for showing everyone on the one hand and great effort and forsaking, and at the same time fully understanding the moment we face all the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68408	Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68409	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, it is pleasant to hear that in one crisis without a precedent, the country's economy is growing 9% and the fact is that for the next year it is projected a significant growth of 4.4% and as you wrote it, you say that the main drivers of this growth are exports of goods and services on the one hand and on the other hand personal consumption. I am interested in the fact that you are very likely to have sent guidelines to the units of local and regional self-government for budgeting for next year, that these components of GDP growth in this year and next year will reflect on the development of the JLS budget, first of all speaking from the position of my county of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, where this tourism this year has not reached the figures as it has achieved in the rest of Croatia, first of all in Istria and the Primor-Gorski County, so I am interested in how you view the development of these budgets of JLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68410	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68411	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, exactly that 9% and its drivers are in fact what should be particularly apostrophe with the already mentioned goods exports and exports of goods and services and personal consumption should be specifically mentioned and, and investments mainly in the next 2 years. However, this growth, of course, is still in front of the overall state budget, and in particular, local budgets still represent, or continues to pose, different kinds of challenges. In addition to the mentioned Dubrovnik-Neretva County and certain municipalities and cities there and in some others we have seen that they have not yet reached that level that would be comparable to that pre-crisis. And that's why even last year after Covid's outbreak, then before the end of the year, we introduced mechanisms called so-called. interest-free loans to local self-government. By the end of the year, we are thinking about another smaller round of it just to help certain cities and municipalities that have not yet reached those pre-recession levels despite their recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68412	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68413	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, EUR 6.3 billion was provided for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the first advance arrived in September. We know that the whole thing works according to the carrot and beating model, or if we're going to implement reforms, then we're going to get financial resources. If I'm not mistaken, 818 million kuna arrived, millions of EUR arrived in September on the continent of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Can you tell us how these funds are deployed in the rebalancing process and what the emphasis is on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68414	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68415	Thank you, well-respected MPs, that exactly 818 million is an advance, according to 34 measures met by the end of the year. We also expect an additional 700 million at the end of the first half and an additional EUR 700 million at the end of the year. We should get into a situation that even I would say in the first third total period and even shorter than that we will withdraw half of the total funds. And those funds just like you said, you used one of these coloroquial terms, but the fact is that there is no national co-financing clearly that can't be clearer. What you have committed to 76 reform projects, 146 investment projects, so defined by these so-called so-called investment projects. quantifiable benchmarks of indicators, after meeting them you come and apply for the withdrawal of funds and they will be spent according to the dynamics of the implementation of individual projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68416	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68417	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, here we heard today from the opposition that our incomes happened to us so that the government did nothing to make them bigger, and that the expenditure obviously didn't happen and the government was.../incomprehensible/... to be so, so I understood this particular debate that was being held today. So this return a year 9% also obviously did not happen because of this government. I'm so sorry. But we have what you said means the cost of this pandemic is 40 billion kuna. When compared to two 2020 deficits. In 2021, it moves to some 41 billion and 700 states alone, meaning minus a billion and 700. Is this Covid, whether this pandemic is the cause of that deficit and whether we would be telling me about the surpluses today if we hadn't had that. On the side and raise wages and pensions and indexation and social rights and anything else that has increased. If we didn't have a pandemic in their government, obviously, then we wouldn't be doing anything, we'd have a surplus and probably... would.../incomprehensible/... in a different way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What are we to blame for, and why are we so incompetent?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68418	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68419	Thank you, Your Honor, I'm kind of trying not to use these as well, but this time I'm going to break a little bit and my own rule is just what you said. No, there's not a lot of random things in this life either, these and the good and the bad things that we're dealing with. But really really when you look at that trend that we have, which we had before the crown, so 12 percentage points of GDP cumulatively in 4 years. So, on average, 3 percentage points per year, we ended up somewhere at 71% in 2019. So in that pandemic it would already be at 68, which means in the budget for next year no later than 2023, if it hadn't been for the Covida pandemic, our public debt would have been within 60% of gross domestic product. Here it is actually an extrapolation of trends which is quite simple but at the same time is very transparent because it is exactly the trend that we have had And now we're going back to that descending path. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68420	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68421	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, one who is well-intentioned is hardly able to find you a grudge and a complaint for the 2020 and '21 budgets. A year in view of the pandemic, earthquakes and global crises that are present in the world. You work, you and your associates do the best work for the Croatian, Croatian man. With the budget, it's always a question of when given, the one who gives a lot, the one who receives a little. Here is my question about this Fund of Resistance and recovery as much as the funds are provided for to build new schools, to achieve the Croatian pedagogue standard, and so that students in Croatia can all go to one school or all of them in the morning shift. And question number two, when are we going to pay the first war for the planes and when will the first planes arrive here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68422	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68423	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'll start with this last part. By the end of the year we should pay that first war of 2 billion 400 million, it is currently planned in 2023, but of course it is a very complex process from the decision itself now going on, of course, to agree and contractual relations, there are very, very many details but in any case we are sure that everything will be in line with some sort of timetable. I'm glad you mentioned this first topic to you, which is education and I think that, that you have recognized exactly what I said earlier, which is that in the Recovery and Resistance Fund is exactly the problem and the area of education and adequate education, but indeed from preschool because I particularly like the efforts and the intention to build and modernise preschool education, so the total funds are somewhere around 7.5 billion kuna, but really to watch from the very beginning as well as to put that as soon as possible. preschool education and basic school hours at EU level. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68424	Thank you. My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68425	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. As we know, economic movements remain under the strong influence of the covidi pandemic, however, we are planning to make more than 2 billion kuna on the basis of taxes and contributions more precisely over 2.5 billion kuna on the basis of value added tax. Not because it is planning to add to our citizens because we know since you minister that we've charged the citizens with more than 10 billion kuna. Whether this is based on an extremely good tourist season that was beyond expectations, and only in August did we have the amount of fiscalised bills from tourism activity 21% more than the record season 2019 or thanks to that we saved over 700,000 jobs and helped 120,000 employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68426	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68427	Thank you very much. Well, a few days ago Thursday and Friday were the days of Croatian tourism in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in Župa Dubrovacki they were hosts in several and operational meetings with tourism representatives, and I would say on the public stage that the tourist workers had just praised all these efforts as important, not only this financial part in terms of preserving jobs but all of these activities that we had, Minister Brnjak, the vice president of Bozinović and others, were simply done to make everything necessary for the tourist season and to function as well as possible. However, I will say in these 9% is not only tourism with all due respect for tourism, every honour with Colombian data, September is equally good where we compare fiscalisation as much as 20 percent compared to 2019 better, so all of this together led to today having a relatively comfortable situation regarding economic activity. But let's not sleep. The challenges are still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68428	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68429	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Minister of Finance. Well, here's already been said several times, and you're on your own in the exhibit, and we've seen over these two years that in some way the cost of covida was more than 40 billion kunas of which it went to precisely measures and job conservation, and then we're glad to have these results, even though as you said we shouldn't sleep or fall asleep about it. I would like to congratulate you on how we are in some way and you yourself have said among the first three or so let's say the third member in the EU about reducing the share of public debt in the BPD, of course reading the rebalancing and everything else were there and some things transferring funds, so let's say there is a reduction, let's say and co-financing of those projects concerning co-financing of projects financed by the EU itself, so I'm curious about the relationship between the projects it runs, let's say the state of state institutions and those projects that mean the burden of the unit of local self-government, or that they plan and the products themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68430	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68431	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, quite well that you mentioned because, of course, execution and realization, the absorption of eu funds is how important it is at this central state level, I said equally important in some things even more important even at this local level because it makes a direct contribution among other things and a problem that we were just talking about, demographics and more even regional development. So, the assessment in the rebalancing itself is according to the latest available data that the resolutions and everyone else have substantiated as far as possible by the end of the year, so we planned this co-financing fund accordingly. You know that some previous interactions were also in this year and in difficult circumstances, there was Minister Tramišak always I would say leader in terms of us as government-level ministers that additional funds were provided precisely for this co-financing fund mainly for the local level. In accordance with our options, we will continue to plan on providing funds with future plans and dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68432	And the last replica of my colleague Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68433	Here's the last I've welcomed you. Dear Minister. What I said earlier that we have a problem with public spending, I think it's undeniable, so today it may become a public impression that everyone is manipulating what they want with large numbers, but what is indisputable is that for years our public spending has been increasing the share of the country in total GDP, and consumption is growing faster than the economy is growing, faster. And here we have a problem, and I think that's one of the reasons that our people are trying to find new jobs and leave Croatia. When you see money being transferred to a healthless hole, you see that about 38 billion kuna a year is spent on health care, that means about 10,000 kuna per capita, and the services are no better. So when are you going to start with structural reforms? That's an obvious question, isn't it? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68434	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68435	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, that part of course regarding budget spending is on the trail of my previous words, which is that the expenditure side of the budget is and will continue to be the key to our success in the sustainability of public finances. All that colleagues said earlier, so you saw how much we saw and through that part of the tax discharge additionally pressured ourselves to rationalise this state spending, and it is, this data is clearly visible and the limits of consumption and the results of the budget and the public debt confirmed that it was even said in the good part and successfully before the outbreak itself. The pandemic has led to the fact that on the one hand your income has been cut off due to your GDP decline, and at the same time you have great, great needs for additional expenditures. And that's where you can find some justification, but here's when you mentioned healthcare, so I'm already mentioning in the budget of 38 billion kuna the cost of total health care of the entire pandemic is somewhere at 3.2 billion so we're talking about much, much bigger and bigger problems than The guy himself. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68436	And Deputy Prime Minister, you can go back to the place we came to an end with replicas. And now I'm going to call the committee's reporters, would anyone like to speak to the committee's rapporteur? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the National Minority Representatives' Club, two MPs, Honored counterparts Radin and counterpart Bilek, will speak. The first one goes to a colleague named Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68437	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of all the functions the state budget is trying to take care of, it must be the most economical. Normally, the needs of the traditional one, such as employment, public debt reduction, improvement of public services, vulnerable groups and emergency situations, are certainly the most important of all needs that one budget, and the rebalance is actually the budget, and of all the most important are the ones that the budget or rebalancing must take into account. But all of this can also be seen in the government's political direction, and usually recently, in recent decades, parliaments have actually privileged this political moment. The government, therefore, particularly points out that despite the coronary crisis, there has been a strong recovery of economic activity, since the domestic economy has successfully adapted to new conditions. It stresses that in the second quarter, the second quarter recorded the historic highest rate of real GDP growth of 16.5%. Such strong economic growth has affected the significantly better achievement of value added tax than planned by the rebalancing of the state budget of June. However, all the positive effects of such growth have been reversed by the ongoing pandemic of the Coronal virus, which has led to further growth in the expenditure of the state budget. Since it is impossible to predict the further development of the pandemic, including the strong social tensions that it can produce and which can have a strong impact on the economic context in the broadest sense of the word, care should be taken in the planning of expenditure. But from a psychological point of view and a permanent opening to public needs, or to be more understandable to the needs of insinuations and people who make up or are the object of their actions. If we add to this the consequences of two earthquakes, not so devastating in the technical sense of that word but with great material consequences, as I would call endemic concerns for buildings, or for their regular maintenance and special protection against elementary disasters, we see that the situation is in budgetary terms, and the rebalancing is nothing more than a new budget, more than a fluid. That is why, with the recognition of concerns for other national minorities, whose funding in this rebalancing is increasing by very good, 25% despite the continuation of some capital facilities, in the case of my minority, particularly Leonardo da Vinci High School, I would still like to express my concern for reducing some items related to the achievement and protection of fundamental human rights. The resources of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities in respect of Human Rights are reduced by one quarter, the resources of the Office for Associations, Gender Equality, Unlawful Legal Assistance etc., etc., all experience some reductions, of course we interpret the reduction of the inability of consumption due to the pandemic situation. Many projects could not be achieved, almost all travel has not been made, and since we have not yet been able to analyse the detailed budget for 2022, let us hope that such situations will be corrected by the budget for next year. For some, for example. for asylum seekers, migrants, the human right general is that, all citizens, we have already established a superficial view of the budget for next year that there will be an increase. Of course, these increases are in percentages. While in total terms, it would take a special session of the Parliament to discuss how sufficient they really are. We have always left to NGOs that as far as they can, and with the forces that have rags in the protection of human rights, but as long-time chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities who have dealt with the many human rights of this Parliament, I am responsibly saying that no government, not from far away, has approached the issue of human rights with the attention that respect for the fundamental values of individuals deserves. Thank you very much, Mr. Bilek will now continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68438	I'm only asking before my colleague, Bilek, to delete the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68439	Thank you very much. Dear President and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the second budget rebalance for this year's topic we were expecting at the beginning of the fall session. When we ask why, I think the answer is quite short and understandable and if only the budgetary situation is talking about a really extremely complex situation and the state finances themselves. First of all, it's a pandemic that's been going on for a year and a half, and during that period on the early state finances has added meaning to the salt and earthquake itself, both in Zagreb and in Banovina and three other counties. Due to these exceptional circumstances, the budget deficit has increased even though GDP has increased compared to planned ones, and all plans have exceeded budget revenues. This rebalancing continues to increase revenue by 3.3 billion kuna and total to 153.6 billion, but therefore expenditures are also increasing by 6 billion kuna and a deficit in the state register of 19.7 billion or 4.7% of GDP is expected. But the facilitating circumstance in that part of mathematics is the fact that it is still expected to increase GDP rather than the planned 5.2% to 9%. What did she bring us, or rather, carried away by a pandemic? She's taken it to us, as we've heard before, and more than once today, about 40 billion unplanned funds, and not only on the items of the Ministry of Health, but also on several ministries. Tests, testing, vaccine, vaccination, personal protective equipment and additional medical equipment, increased issue for the overtime of health workers and related activities and with a small delay at the beginning due to global delay, Croatian citizens are provided with everything necessary to fight this monster effectively and it cost everything, dear colleagues and colleagues, but it is all paid. In parallel, I am free to say that due to the objective prevention of health system reform, the problem of debt towards wholesales has escalated, and this fire has been extinguished in the first half, so we had the first rebalancing that was primarily due to that part, and now there is a second half, because every day the debt is growing, but here are some preparations for reforms, changes to legislation, and we believe that this part will still go slowly for the better. With this rebalancing, the government has also found additional funds of 1.6 billion kuna in the position of the Ministry of Health, which is a short-term solution, but is inevitable at the moment. The situation with health finances needs to be learned, there is no solution without complete health reform and must not be delayed for either a pandemic or some other reason. It has to be implemented without delay because at this time, the health leave for part of HZZO amounts to a record 38 billion. I hope so, and we expect to see the first steps in the budget for next year as well. I think that through the rebalancing, the additional costs of the Ministry of Labour to preserve jobs that could be planned on very short paths should be added to the new 600.7 h. 607.8 million kunas with this rebalancing, as we have said, the most funds went right to preserve the economy, preserve jobs, and I think this is the Ministry headed by Mr. Maric, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia led Mr. Plenkovic well done the job, especially if we compare ourselves with the rest of this part of Central Europe, where they had much bigger problems, much bigger losses and everything else. We need to do everything to control this 4th wave first and foremost so that this item does not additionally burden the budget beyond these additional funds. There are, of course, funding for the indexation of pensions, significant expenditure on the items of the Ministry of Interior and Education, i.e. in part, on the increase in salaries of civil servants and subsistence. Given the police's involvement in the protection of borders and the work of educators in the circumstances of the pandemic, little in the classroom, little on the line, I don't think there should be any objection to this cost, because we see both teachers and teachers, as well as the police, above all at the borders, but also all other health workers and everything else, in what conditions they are currently working, in what conditions they live and in some way they should be honored for that part as much as possible. A lot of comments have caused a reduction in budgets for items of the Ministry of Construction and State Property worth 237 million kuna. These funds would not be spent effectively in this year, so by the end of the new year, and it is okay that they have been transferred to items from which they will be spent usefully. The second question is why they weren't spent. I am free to say that I believe that these funds will be in the budget for the next year as we have seen them, and will be compensated for the missed ones, especially after the amendment of the Rehabilitation Act, which we had in this high home and thus will help our fellow citizens who have suffered in the earthquake better and faster. There could be some real words about any item of change and the addition of the budget, but in my presentation, I would particularly like to refer to the entry of the Ministry of Defence which is the topic in the public today, but perhaps not in a very appropriate way. The rebalance increases the defence ministry's expenditures by 7.05 billion kuna, primarily due to the fact that by the end of the year it is due to pay the first war to purchase a multi-purpose fighter aircraft. We should never question that part because it is the modernisation that is absolutely necessary. It should also be pointed out that for years the Ministry of Defence's budget has been in constant growth, and what our soldiers' successful international activities are talking about. Finally, let me look back in some way on things that are primarily related to national minorities and other operational programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased that some of the funds that will enable the implementation of these operational programmes, although not in a 100% form, will still be missing, but it is understandable that according to the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia in this year, these funds will also be increased. Given all this, the National Minority Representatives Club will support these changes in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68440	Mrs Grozdana Peric, will represent the positions of HDZ Representatives' Club on this rebalancing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68441	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Secretary of State and the Treasury. There are three topics before us, and these are the amendments and additions to the budgets and financial plans of extra budget users for 2021, amendments and additions to the act on budget implementation for 2021 and with plans for 22 and 23, as well as the half-year budget implementation report for this year, the first half. This is therefore the second rebalancing and, according to the macroeconomic indicators that we have been presented, the projected growth of the domestic economy and GDP growth by 9%. This is significantly more than originally projected, which was around 5.2% according to the latest projections. The main driver of growth in 2021 is the export of goods and services due to the extremely good tourist season, but also personal consumption and state spending and gross investment in fixed capital. Total revenues are increasing in this rebalance by 3.3 billion kuna and amounting to 153.6 billion kuna, which is primarily revenue, increased VAT revenues. Also, excise duties have been increased. VAT for 2.4 billion kuna and taxes and excise duties of 267 million kuna. Total expenditures are increasing by 6 billion, and this is now a 173.3 billion kuna plan. Why are the expenditures increased, and what do they contain? In total, 2.4 billion kunas are provided for the purchase of fighter aircraft. In addition, funds are provided for employees including funds for primary and secondary school staff of €928.8 million. Then additional funds to resuscitate health institutions of 735.9 million kuna and overtime work in healthcare of 64.1 million kuna. Also increased transfers to HZZO by around 700 million kuna and for pensions for a new indexation of 672.2 million kuna. As the pandemic and Covid have made further difficulties, support for the preservation of jobs has been retained so far for some sectors and in 2021 amounts to 607,8 million kuna. The contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the budget of the European Union is another 494.9 million kuna. The expenditure financed from European sources is reduced by 1.1 billion kuna and are in the recovery project. However, what should be said is that these funds are not lost. So it was just necessary for certain here legal changes to activate certain mechanisms in order to speed up the whole process. The state budget will thus record a deficit of 19.7 billion kuna or 4.7% of GDP, and compared to the general ESAM methodology, the general government will have a deficit of 18.9 billion kuna or 4.5% of GDP. Despite all the difficulties as I said in the replica, public debt itself is high and has increased compared to the one we had in 2019, it decreases by 4.2% points compared to 2020 and will be 83.1% of GDP. It is mentioned significantly because it has repeatedly been through replicas and mentioned how much health costs are. In this rebalancing and previous health care, 6.4 billion kuna has been additionally invested. That's what comes directly from the state budget and it's now over $9.1 billion. When we look at the total revenues achieved through the contributions collected through HZZ, then the total health care with this from the budget costs directly in this year over 37.7 billion kuna. That's when we compare the per capital to the current current current data, not the ones we'll have later. That's a thousand 255 euros per capita. It is also important to note Covid's costs and this was also mentioned by Minister Maric, where by the end of September Covid's costs were directly over 3.2 billion kuna. I would also like to mention all that was happening through the amendments and the additions to the budget itself, and they also reflected the Law on the implementation of the State budget where it is mentioned, this is the normative part that regulates all that is happening in the amendments and the additions to the budget, and it is important to note, among other things, that certain figures have been corrected in relation to the financing account, hence both borrowing and deleveraging. And it is also possible to increase amounts for units of local and regional self-government where the level of debt is increased from 3 to 3.5%. This means that this amount of debt is more enabled to open and to create conditions for units of local regional self-government to prepare projects as well as to withdraw European Union funds. The Law also stipulates that the amount of the unscathed loan paid to units of local and regional self-government by virtue of the decision does not enter into the scope of the unit of local and regional self-government. These are the most important items that actually make up the law itself. When we look at this in the context of the execution of a half-yearly execution, we must say that the Commission for Fiscal Policy has also adopted its position on 13th and 14th, respectively, of the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which speaks and refers precisely to the increased expenditure and is referred to and warned about the increase in inflation amid rising prices of raw materials and producer prices on the international market. And it's just warning about those elements that are crucial to the functioning of the system. It is also referred to problems and expenditure on health expenditure, which especially during this period the Covid crisis has expanded, but which are not the only culprit, but it is really important and important to implement certain reforms. What should be further said is that in this period 2021, the fiscal rules required by the Stability Pact are suspended, but that will be introduced gradually. So all that this Committee needs to monitor will be introduced in 2023, but this does not reduce exactly the importance that all changes and all reflections that we have through the state budget are being followed right now. What needs to be said, and it needs to be pointed out that in this perspective of the next 7 years or so, the funds provided by the new generation of Croatia have a huge chance of driving and making significant changes and enabling and creating very high quality conditions for industry, for production, for attracting job investments. I would once again point out that all those normative terms and normative acts that we have adopted, and the Ministry of Regional Development is implementing and directing funds, I must say, is very visible through the realisation of these very international aids, because since 2017 it has been only 7.3 billion kuna, 2018. 9.96 means nearly 10 billion kuna, in 2019 it is over 14 billion kuna, in 2020 it is already 17.6 and the new plan in 2021 is 23.6 billion kuna, which means that all of these assets that Croatia has and can claim the right to truly and quality direction and use it in a way that is precisely using these advantages of M+3 methodologies so that through the next these until 2023, it can use all these missing or unused funds and then also open a new envelope, it says that they have quite well launched and how private entrepreneurship and also all the participants in this process. I must therefore say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support all these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68442	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Domagoj Hajdukovic to represent the positions of the Social Democrats Club on this rebalancing and the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and chief treasurer, colleagues and colleagues. I'd start with that famous thesis that every budget is a kind of political ID of every government and every majority. If so, if it is indeed a political card, if it is a work programme or if we are talking about rebalancing is part of what has been done or done in this year, what does it mean and what does it say about this government and this majority? The first thing he tells us in my opinion is that the expenditures aren't under control. The expenditures are wild. Some are also objective reasons that are understandable in terms of the pandemic, but some are predictable, some are also reasons that can be reached. I'm a little certain that every year, at the same time, we're talking about the debts of wholesale drugs and debt in health care. If memory serves me well and still serves me well, about the same time last year we discussed the same topics, had round tables on the subject, had presses, had committee sessions etc., etc. About this same topic of colleagues and colleagues and this is a health debt and it is a debt to large-scale drugs and the threat of supplying medicines to hospitals and the general public. And now we have a kind of déjà vu, because the same topic is being discussed again, and that's why I'm asking you if that's an indication that this government's policy was good, that they've been well-predicted and that they've planned the financial resources well? I don't think so. The deficit in the last two years as we've had the chance to hear here has increased by 50 billion. That's not a small amount of co-worker and co-worker if we consider that the state budget is about 550 billion cca more or less. That's exactly what we don't have an answer for except for the Covid virus pandemic. Okay, we can understand that part too. We can understand that in 2020, but not in 2021. At least I don't have any more understanding about it. So the expenses aren't under control. The expenditures are something that is poorly planned, which is still wild and that we do not serve in time especially at the time of the pandemic when the supply of medicines and the functioning of the health system should be something that is a priority. And I'll talk about that later. What else does it say about this government, about this majority? We are unable to withdraw funds from the European Union. Unfortunately, I am often left with the role of an insolent prophet behind this speaker. And when we were discussing colleagues and colleagues, and remember not so long ago about the triumphal announcements of the prime minister how much money we got from the European Union, how much money we're about to get, we're falling out of the sky, which we would say, then I was talking about exactly how great this is, but I'm not sure how much money we're really going to be able to use in the end. This budget rebalance is just proof that that's exactly what it is. So 206 million kunas have been withdrawn for co-financing of European projects, so projects that will not be realised and I stress co-financing, so these are not projects in full. How many projects we're not going to finance in the end, I'm leaving you to think. But the fact is that in this important segment, in a segment where the government is actually and the government is putting all these great announcements on the next 7-year period and so on, we're already failing to implement. And here's a clear indicator, numbers are inevitable and numbers don't lie. What else does this government budget say? We're incapable of starting a reconstruction. A year and 7 months after the earthquake in Zagreb, that is 11 months after the earthquake in the area of Banija and Sisak the reconstruction has not practically begun. The money standing on the reserve, which has come from the European Union, is still undrawn, and that is where I am being tied up and then debated that we are not able to use European funds. Why is that? So perhaps the Deputy Prime Minister should explain this to people who still live in containers, unconditional containers that have been welcomed in such conditions by another winter, or those in Zagreb who are also in accommodation from 10 to 15 squares and are waiting for further renewal or what will be with them. But the fact remains that in this year's renewal has not begun, that the money that was planned for it has not been spent because there has been no recovery and that our citizens are still in unconditional accommodations. What else does this budget rebalance say about this government and about this majority? We're incapable of ruling an epidemic. Okay, now you're going to say so most of us don't see everything going on in Europe, etc. But then I'd get right, so maybe we're not able to rule the epidemic as much as others do. What do I mean by that? Well, I think our health system is collapsed, and not just because of the epidemic. So, I mentioned before the debt to the big drugstores. It is also worth mentioning to health care employees. Remember these miserable additions of fighters who are on the front lines of defense against Covid. It's really better if we didn't give them anything than that ridiculous amount. We're talking about waiting lists getting longer, it's about taking care of our chronic patients, diabetics, cancer patients, etc. Thus, the costs of the health system rise, which is in one hand and understandable because of the epidemic. But on the other hand, it's not understandable because we should have predicted this more than the vaccination isn't going according to plan. And again I must say that the vaccination campaign was a total fiasco. It encourages the fact that more and more of our citizens are deciding at this point for vaccination, but this is not the result of the government's work. It's actually a result of the government's unhappiness and it's the result of the fact that the virus is driving us wild again. We are incapacitated and this little health care system that remains in the pandemic situation, in the situation of a major health threat to all our citizens and potential threats it is something that really needs us very deep and very seriously concerned team more that the expenditures were at least part of them, and those who were to assume or could have predicted, and the fact that so many vaccines we give to abroad as much as it commends were not the result of our broad soul or our generosity, but the fact that we did not vaccinate our own population. And better yet, I agree to give the vaccine away than to let it go to waste. But the fact is that the money the government spent on getting a vaccine to take care of its citizens has failed in this way. It didn't fail in the sense that someone didn't vaccinate. Thank God the vaccine may be in some other countries, but the fact is that those to whom it was intended have not been vaccinated, and these are our citizens, and of course we pay. What we can and what I want to discuss is the social development and vulnerable groups, and then the economic stagnation, or what the government will call it an economic take-off and growth. So first of all, what we need to look at in these times of crisis is caring about vulnerable groups and continuing social development. I'm afraid he's been completely neglected in the budget, and that even now through the second rebalancing, he's been put back on the margins of what he's supposed to be. I have spoken on several occasions for this speaker, and then through the amendments and on the budget of which should be targets in at least some segments of the state's activity and inciting, say, volunteering, outside of teaching activities, teaching for the gifted. Let's say it's only from one segment. But then where are we going to get everyone else? The state showed insensitivity by refusing to single out symbolic means for these activities. Now after the crisis, after and alienation of people, after the psychological consequences of the pandemic, isolation, lockdown and so on left on our citizens, on our students, students just tell us how much these items were needed in the budget and how much we should have thought about such things. Because when we talk about managing an epidemic or holding an epidemic under control, then we must not ignore this fact, which is that we have an epidemic and psychological problems as a result of lockdowns and epidemics, that we also have an epidemic of obesity as a consequence of the pandemic, that is, the fact that people have been locked up for so long, that we have an increase in alcohol consumption, that we have an increase in domestic violence and that we have done nothing in the budget, or in two rebalances, and that's that social sensitivity, protection of vulnerable groups, social development that I want to talk about, and also in rebalancing, we see that there will be nothing. The next thing you know is economic development, but I'd call it economic stagnation. Above the water is the only tourism that must be able to surprise us, because we are not able to plan the revenues. Thank God I'm gonna tell you that someone bad doesn't say that I'm the bad guy, that the season was beyond expectations, that we've been coming in more, but that's still not enough for the expenses we planned, and the ones we didn't plan on. The economic stagnation is reflected in the fact that the growth that the prime minister is now speaking so highly of is actually just reaching at the pandemic level of economic activity. And that's not the end, but we're seeing reports of major crisis shortages, inflation has begun to rage. Both colleagues and colleagues, let's not fool ourselves. The basic consumer basket did not grow by three percent, it grew by many, many more. The more we consider how many of our citizens and what percentage spends on meeting the basic needs of life, which is food, warm room and directing. You'll see it's a big percentage. In the share of GDP, according to EUROSTAT calculations, or the EU, we spend 18% of GDP on food, only on food. Sorry not 18%, we're at 14%, at 18% is Romania. But still a big percentage. So Romania is the only one ahead of us by that percentage in the EU that tells us that most of our citizens are actually with modest incomes and that most of their incomes are spent on meeting the basic needs of life. So inflation is growing. She'll grow further. It's not all in the hands of the government, but it's part of it. So, through fiscal and then monetary policy. But food shortages, general consumption shortages will only be seen for holidays as analysts say. These were all alarm bells, all of which were indicators of the government that was supposed to work on and through the budget then as a personal ID of its political action. But I don't see them. They assure us that the energy will not gather, they assure us that we have enough in stock. I'm not sure if it's entirely true and how it's going to move all winter, because I'm saying we see what the movements on global markets are like and we won't be able to avoid them. We could have planned smarter, maybe, but this is not how we're gonna avoid them. To slowly bring the end and to the conclusion. The budget is the political manifesto of every government, every majority. It shows what they want or don't want to do, how they do, and the rebalancing is a sort of thing I'd say in the English dictionary follows up, a kind of analysis done and what else the government wants to do in the space that remains after the rebalancing. According to this, everything I've said, that's what we at the Social Democrats Club and how we see it. We were right when we didn't support the budget, and that's why we won't support his rebalancing either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68444	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP first Mr. Hajdash-Doncic and then Mr. Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68445	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. By studying the budget I watch a younger child play this game, neither is Minecraft, nor is Fifa, but he played Ketch and shoot and then I remember, Minister Marić just remembered. And I ask one question that's so interesting. Do you ever come to one level or would the kids tell the level if the game puts you back to the beginning? No, no, I'm at 57, I can play tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I'll move on from the same level. That's what you do with Minister Maric. So he thinks or he has to look a little bit at the 2022 budget. He thinks six billion kunas will succeed in cutting public health costs. So from 22 billion kuna to 16 billion kuna. This is absolutely impossible, and you yourself mentioned this today by quoting one doctor if I was careful enough, so that the health care system can spend as much as you give it. So, you said it today, and otherwise... Yes, it is. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And otherwise, I still think, without Covid, that the monthly health system generates around 220 million kunas of new debt. It's a Croatian reality, but it's about someone else at the so-called reforms that do not exist in health care. It's something that all pour point on paper, means no goal, no nothing, but irrelevant. Let's get back to rebalancing now. About inflation we talked about Minister Maric and I where I actually say it here one more time, so look, this is not a matter of Maric as a name and a last name, but of the Minister of Finance. So, the finance minister is currently responsible for inflation in Croatia precisely because of increased expenditure. In addition to monetary policy and fiscal policy, it is responsible for this. Now that we have a rebalancing? In the rebalancing we have first planned the income of 150 billion kuna, the expenditure is 167 billion kuna, which was first less than 17 billion kuna or 4% of GDP. Then we rebalanced the i.e. The ministry has rebalanced revenue to 153 billion kuna, but expenditure on 173 billion kuna, which is actually less than 19,715 million kuna or 4.7% of GDP. So we had 4% of GDP, so there's 4.7% of GDP, and when it comes to consolidated it's called a consolidated local state, so there's us already at 21 billion kuna and then 5% of GDP. Now, this may seem to people something like 3%, 5%, 6% of GDP, but debts have to go back, and these debts will come back as we'll probably have repercusions in a year, 2, 3, maybe 4 or 5 depends on what interest rates will be. Now, as we all probably all know, because that's what the paper says, so we don't need any further intellectual effort to actually have it. Probably a good tourist season, increased to say income. But let's do a little analysis of who the losers are. It's more or less anything publicly available. The biggest loser of the budget is the Ministry of Construction 236 million kuna. What does that mean? It means there's no renewal, or it's flimsy, or it's full of conflict between the fund and the ministry, and it's actually one big mess. By the way, I was in the Clay on Friday and I'm watching, I'm driving there a little bit in those villages, and what can I tell you? That even Mr. Pupovac could see better than I could. What can we see there? We might notice that except for HEP who set up these concrete pillars that he replaced these trees with absolutely nothing. They patched up the blast holes a little bit. So I'm talking about the part of Clay where the majority probably Serbian population lives. ...no renovation at all, nothing at all. People pray there that some chimney is donated to them, here's that 306 million kuna. Then we have something that counterpart Ahmetovic mentioned, which is about 200 million kunas less for the EU, the co-financing component that again speaks year after year about the failure to negotiate, but the implementation of EU funds. And now let's recalculate, Mr. Minister, let's do a little math. 200 million here, 200 million here, that's 400 million. Then you have 58 million kunas less for... projects and railway infrastructures. We put a minimum multiplier and we're close to the missed or what we could achieve for our GDP to grow 1% more it's 4.2 billion in Croatian frameworks. Now, what else do we have here? Where do 7 billion new, 7.2 billion kunas of new expenditures come from? How's that? How come, how did this happen? So first, we book the two-and-a-half-billion planes. Now why hasn't that ever happened before? Why is that in the book now? Something was being explained, something wasn't being explained. Perhaps this Minister Banozic is burdened with Milanovic, so... he is not focusing on the daily part of the job, but is focusing on the relationship between himself and Pantovic. Well, then we have money for public health 1.6 billion. It means a lot of recovery, the first large recovery, the second. And now what's my conclusion? The conclusion is that Andrej Plenkovic actually made excellent use of this Covid crisis to hide his own mess, nelade, irresponsibleness and cowardice. Now I have a few questions for Minister Maric who will be so easy on him. Which means now I'm looking at 2021 and 2022 again, so the Ministry of Finance is spending on... assets and loans, so you're reducing 2021 by 400 million, and from 22, you're raising it to 5 billion kuna? Then we have expenses for paying off the principal for issued securities is increasing in 2022. 5 billion expenses, so we increase it by 5 billion kuna. Then we still have expenses to pay off the principal for issued securities. So I'm asking you a question about when and what exactly is the dynamics of paying and repaying credit? Now, at the entire budget level, you're planning in 2022, which is linked to the 2021 increase in the principal payment for issued bonds from 13 to 24 billion kuna. So a total of 11 billion kuna is what, savings or is that actually the level of savings at the Ministry of Health? So I repeat myself again to the first part when you come to... some difficult you will succeed at the Ministry of Health with this quasi reform that is not at all reform actually bring them back to some sort of normal, because the expenditures have long since been taken control of someone. Then we still have receipts from issued bonds growing in 2022 for 8 billion kuna, and we're returning the old liabilities to rise by 11 billion kuna. So again some savings in health care by me. And at the end of the assumption, yours is likely to be waiting for the growth of interest yields after 2021 fell below schedule. And now watch out, at the whole budget level, interest expenditures rise 900 million kuna, almost a billion kuna, means a total of 6.8, and they were 5.9 and now the public debt is not going to grow as much as the cost of interest is planned. And now why will it even grow if the European Central Bank plans that the contributions should not grow? It's completely unclear to me. So it's just this little accounting-financial. Now, my colleague Lalovac will continue, so stop my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68446	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lalovec. Here, it's been cleaned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, here we are today, talking about budget rebalancing, in a very challenging time. Because what is actually monetary and fiscal power not only in Croatia, but it was also the recommendations of the European Commission and the FED, the American policies, where the exit from the crisis, focused on getting out of the covid as quickly as possible, to be that curve pumping money, printing money, increasing the expenditure side of the budget. It was caught on the other hand that we are now in one period, we have been bombarded in the last two, three months with information from the public on price growth, enormous price growth, and now the question is which mechanisms to catch it. It's more difficult to run some kind of macro-economic policy now, in some stable conditions there was one policy, now it's completely different. And we see that here and expenditure in the budget in two rebalances, so from June and today, so 14 billion kuna is growing, and that's all those expenditures that are actually funded and affecting the deficit. And when you see the total mass of salaries, I talk to primary and secondary schools, it means to everyone in the public sector, it means 33 billion kuna. Today, the minister said, he also summed up 38 billion kuna health care. Health care 38, salary 33, pension 44. It's some sort of starting base on our budget, about 115 billion kuna. So that's our budget with these trends in all of these components having normal growth trends. It's hard to stop them. It is not easy or easy because they are numerous, because inflation on the other hand also bites the standard of citizens. And these all transfers that will go to pensioners as well this indexation and for the increase of salaries in primary and secondary schools will partially compensate for enormous wage growth. And then what happens again? Once again, when we come to inflation, in order to re-define citizens' standards must rise again the expenditure side of the budget. And that's where we're in one spiral of spins, where when it's hard, when we grow products, and we see that all the products, we'll see next year how much reconstruction can be done with I don't know 100 billion kuna, and how much can be done next year with 100 billion kuna when the prices of all construction works go up. And then that money in the budget is going to break the budget's spending side again, because we're not going to be able to rebuild with that amount of money. And all the time what's actually been a long number of years has been to return consumption and this budget and this 9% has been based exclusively on consumption, meaning consumption and tourism and the growth of certain incomes and certain transfers that the ministry has actually made according to the harmonisation of pensions and the increase of wages. It won't be easy to stop that spiral, because it's simple when it's decided either by monetary authority or by fiscal authority when it's decided, and they haven't decided yet because they hope that part of inflation will slow down. Because most of inflation comes to us importably, it comes to us through the price of energy. We won't hear any more of what's coming to a certain increase. Only later on what might happen, and that's what's a great psychological effect if there's no goods. So for the first time in 30 years we've been or 50 years, we're no longer on the demand curve that we lack stimulant through transfers, and that's what's been stimulated by some debt-stimulating economy, for the first time there's no goods. And then that's a big problem, it's going to be a big problem and budget management in 2022 and 2023. And it wouldn't, that's what's challenging and for a minister that won't be easy. Let's make sure, let's be completely open. Who today can say that they will save some kind of health care? Let's be honest, after all the directors today say that the health system is just falling apart, there's no hospital director who hasn't said it today. Which now the government is going to give me some kind of papers as they go public, so the minister is withdrawing, etc. Oh, that's impossible. It's impossible for anyone to seriously say that someone in a crisis like this is going to be doing some kind of health reform. We know that we have not yet shown a minimum of three to three and a half billion kunas of health debt in this budget rebalancing and that they will be there by the new year. We don't know what next year will be, we don't know what the fourth wave will be, etc. Are we going to inflation with these parts to impoverish Croatian pensioners? Are we gonna have to change the indexation again? Is it normal for Croatian pensioners who live with 2 and a half thousand to 2700 kuna, that this kind of price increase when oil goes, flour, everything, when they go prices that simply they are the biggest losers. And that spiral once it's started, and it's already started, we're actually serious about it, and we see that these salaries, pensions, health care, there's no way that any government in the future is seriously going to be able to embrace and do the spending side. And that's why next year will be so challenging in 2023. And here we have certain mechanisms, and here everyone who speaks against the European Commission, believe the European Union that we are not today, we would have the IMF today and we today have to cut seriously, and this is Croatia's contribution to being under the umbrella of the European Central Bank. And lucky for me, we see today many of those who speak against the euro to join the euro as soon as possible. We have not dropped the rating not because the government is successful or not successful, because the government's political decision is to accept the euro and I personally support it. I personally support that, because that's what protects you. In this part of inflation attacks on the kuna when it was recently. The CNB has a limited arsenal to defend the Kuna. He doesn't have enough arsenal to defend the Kuna. We don't have direct foreign investment when there are crises. For us, the largest part of the Kuna's stabilisation comes from the EU funds, 3 billion euros coming from Croatia came from EU funds, came and it stabilised the price of the exchange rate. And imagine after all this, what the price of food goes, etc. All that's going on, imagine we're still taking a wild course. So that's simply what we are now in one space of small maneuvering possibilities. What we can expect now is that in 2022, however the minister draws the budget, and unfortunately he has to draw it in order to show to the European Central Bank in Europe that we will accept as soon as we enter the euro, of course we will pass the expenditures next year. We're going to go through the expenditures next year, and that's evident, and the question is how can you manage the budget's expenditure side under that kind of inflation, so much price growth next year. Because these are already serious amounts and health care of 38 billion very, very serious, very serious amounts of money 38 billion, pensions of 44 billion, salaries of 33 billion etc. And I have to admit that I was surprised by these billions and a half kuna that it came back to the budget later, that not one item went for the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises, but that it went back to the budget without leaving liquidity and small and medium-sized enterprises, regardless of what the minister said that they had received some other sources that part of the money was to be released to small and medium-sized enterprises. So the SDP club will not accept this proposal to amend and supplement the rebalancing, however, we believe that some more serious discussions on this document must come from the government's side of some more serious documents that the spending party is still keeping as much under control as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68448	You, too. Now it is Mr. Milorad Pupovac who will represent the views of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68449	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If at least ten percent of us were to discuss the way my predecessor discussed the budget, and ten percent of the public's attention would be focused on the matter of the budget, as pointed to the question of one commander of an honorable battle, we would certainly be in a very different situation than we are. But about that thing from me so much. I will try without any pretentiousness because I do not have them and cannot have them joined by those who will view this budget rebalancing in the way he deserves it. First of all, the increase in income is not only a fact when the state budget is due, the increase in income is also visible in units of local self-government that are seriously managed. This increase in income is not only a fact when the state budget is due, income increases are visible for local self-government units that are seriously managed. This increase in income that is listed here in the amount of 3.3 billion kuna increases relative to the original projections thanks to one side to the increase in VAT, on the other, thanks to overall economic activity and, of course, thanks not only to the overall economic activity, thanks to the fact of the inflow of funds coming from the EU. And these things allow for certain risks to be controlled by the share of public debt in GDP and its reduction, and on the other hand to keep under control the inevitable increase in income, i.e. the increase in expenditure strata. Growth in the expenditure side, starting from the purchase of fighter aircraft, which is not of particular interest to this club, but is therefore the provision of additional funds for staff expenditures of almost billions of kuna, of which a significant part for primary and secondary school. Also for the rehabilitation of health institutions 735, nearly 736 million kunas of which a significant part refers to the increase in wages for overtime which has been a particular topic and of particular interest to the public due to the exposure of healthcare professionals in the circumstances of the pandemic and the fact that a whole series of them has not been adequately paid for in a certain period. Additional funding for pensions, as already said here, and of course additional funds for the preservation of jobs of more than 6 hundred million kunas under the circumstances of the Coronal pandemic virus and of course the resources of our share or contribution to the EU budget for not full 500 million kuna. Therefore, it is difficult to find arguments for most of these items that make up the expenditure side and the expenditure increase against. Hardly. What is a bigger issue, and this issue today is probably difficult to discuss is, of course, the rationality and functionality of spending on the insurance budget. And not only that when it comes to health care, education which is common in public, especially health and especially education, but also agriculture. We only spend on direct incentives in agriculture last year, i.e. we spend nearly three billion kunas this year. We spend a little more on agricultural investments, but also on about three billion kunas. What are the results of these costs, what is the reimbursement of those costs? What is ultimately the result of the reduction in imports and the increase in exports when our agricultural products are related? That would require a serious debate. Not a debate on the commander of honorary combat, but a debate on how and in what way the state resources we have are actually achieving what we're about to do that which is what makes us do what we do in the right sense, that word to the state and society and the economy. Unfortunately, we don't have this debate on boards, we don't even have it in parliamentary plenary debates, and we don't have it in public either. We only have it in narrow professional circles that no one appreciates anyway, that no one is holding. Just enough to say that those who produce this kind of political language as dominated in the last half-year in Croatia should know what they are actually doing and what the consequences are. However, given the fact that the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party part of the National Minority Club, I will focus on what is of particular interest to members of the national minorities, which is primarily a question of the development of the area where members of national minorities live. From year to year, funds for the development of municipal infrastructure in municipalities and cities are increased, the development of first to fourth categories, such as the County of Viritarian-Podravska, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeško-Slavonska, Sisak-Moslavska, Lika-Senjska, Sibenik-Kninska in one part. So we're doing all we can to make sure that the units of local self-government that are covered by such a degree of underdevelopment get additional funding to compensate for the backlog, the depravity of the infrastructure in which people live, no matter what national minority they talk about and no matter what the party behaves in these environments. This increase shall also be recorded in this budget not significantly but also in relation to those concerned with regard to municipal infrastructure and the CAPs, but also in relation to crafts. Unfortunately, we lost two years in trade and realisation through the Ministry of Economy. This year we are renovating it simply because there are no trades in these areas. Not only do they rest in big cities, but in big cities, it's easy to find a master for something. However, come to Citizen, come to Lapac you will find it difficult to find. He's not in large cities because they went to Germany or some other country, but in these areas of the Dalmatian hinterland, like, Bania, Kordun, West Slavonia, unfortunately, it's very difficult. And that is why it is necessary that in these environments that are ethnically mixed, where national minorities live, an additional effort is created to allow these people to have minimal assumptions about what others have in more significant and somewhere in optimal assumptions about their own private life, whether social life, whether economic activity. So this is significant and we hope that in the next period, therefore, these funds will also be greater in the budget than they have been and than they are now with this rebalancing. I would just like to say more about the Ministry of Regional Development and as regards the areas of mountain and mountain areas that are needed, which are treated as assisted areas, the development of assisted areas here is also not spectacular, but is recorded in view of the trend to reduce the expenditure side of the budget or to reduce items in the budget by ministries in a significant part of the ministries. It didn't happen here. It ensured a certain increase. What I'd like to say is that today, regardless of all the emotion that I understand very well when they're victims, but we're far enough from war that we can look soberly at things especially when it comes to people's economic interests, people's social interests. Each of us is looking forward to increasing funds and maintaining the amount of funds better said for the Vukovar city fund. But none of us look forward to the fact that, despite the fact that every year special funds are provided for this fund and through this fund and through various other sources, there is no progress, no economic activity, no imagination about it. All imagination is exhausted whether there are so many Serbs or so many Croats. All imagination is being spent on whether the war is over or not? In such a way, these funds will certainly not be spent in the future by stopping the population’s outflow. And instead of focusing on how to stop the population drain, we most passionately conduct the debate, we attack each other most often without any real resistance in the facts of how and how to show who's bigger in respect of war. Instead of cooling our heads off and starting to see how and how. We use what is available to us as best we can. I'll be back in a minute, which is all I have left on the subject of agriculture. For 2 years, all direct payments in agriculture will be covered by EU funds. So, it's just over three billion kunas as projection in next year's budget for that item, which means that our domestic assets will be released to the greatest extent possible for other activities. Are we trained and prepared to do that? We didn't. Examples with the Zagreb City Fund and 700 million euros received from the Solidarity Fund show that we are not, we are neither operational, nor are we in terms of imagination and modes of management or management of the whole thing. But it may be that I'm underestimating the Commander of the Honorary War, perhaps yet the answer lies there but I didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68450	Thank you very much. And now the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS will say that to Mrs. Dark-Taritash, and then Mrs. Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68451	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to get rid of that siren name somehow, so when we talk about budget rebalancing, it's hard not to touch a little bit, and the budget that we're going to have in the debate in the distinguished House in one four weeks, according to those announcements that are. So what we expect through that budget, we expect some different topics and some different approach. We live absolutely different today than we did two or five years ago. We live in a virtual world where we work through money we don't see, through cards we don't see. But in this virtual world there must also be some scenarios of how any state is coming out of the crisis or how it develops its economies and then we need to see through and a budget that will be that these scenarios really in nature predict that they are working and in the context where we are discussing one of the biggest summits here is in Glosgow and about climate change, and when suddenly the most powerful countries in the world are talking about that climate change didn't happen yesterday, they didn't happen today. It happened long before the influence of humans. And I expect us to see in the budget certain elements that can give them those answers. But I have to go back to what's topic, and the subject is rebalancing. This rebalancing which the other shows one very simple but worrying thing. From the crisis that started, it was a corona crisis there in February 2020, so which takes a little while longer and there will be two years for this crisis we couldn't be prepared. And we are absolutely always from this pay phone, regardless of whether we are opposition politicians, saying that this unpreparedness was absolutely logical, but today at the end of 2021, we are absolutely through this rebalance, not that we have welcomed it unprepared, but we have not yet learned anything. I know that the ruling party will say that everything is certain to be great, that we have growth, that we're almost back to the crisis. But the budget, and so does its rebalancing very well shows where we're going and what the government's political and operational intentions are. And the intentions that come out of this are not good for the state. One of them is beating a huge amount of money into health care without doing anything or intending to work to stop it being a bottomless bag. Now you can see on the portals that the hospital in Split has decided to reduce its cold drive to the lowest possible measure and that is the result. It is one thing to pay dearly for a service that is valid and for which a man can find justification, but another is when we pay more and more. It is constantly taken from other resistors, and the service is getting worse and less and less for our money. And it's not just Corona's fault that they don't fool themselves or lie. Of course Corona's costing, but she's come to health care that's been crying out for serious changes for a long time. After all, and when it comes to corona, we are one of the most deadly countries in the world. It's like we keep forgetting or we don't want to mention it. But unfortunately, that's the way it is. So if we have not judged and therefore our health care needs urgent and serious treatment. Speaking of mortality in the crown, the black spot is above the premises of Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, Montenegro would also be Serbia if they didn't have any other data, Romania, Bulgaria and, therefore, it's no wonder that in all other elements of the EU countries we are always at the bottom, or where both Romania and Bulgaria are. And now we're getting to this rebalancing thing. I know Minister Maric has a permanent ungrateful task of covering and patching holes and the incompetence of all other resistors, but colleagues and colleagues can't go on forever. The management of the health crisis was given to a man who obviously has no idea about it. There's no decent way to say it, no idea. And now Minister Maric must again come up with how and from where to cover these holes, while also from health care, a portfolio that eats this budget and rebalancing as if there is no limit to the lack of good ideas and initiatives in which to improve health services, while at the same time making some savings is being made with a proposal for to God's reform from which it is not clear at all what the idea is and why this idea of reform that is not actually reform has just appeared in the public space. And all the time, the minister who runs that resort acts like money's falling out of the sky. The government can say whatever they want, but they're still growing public debt and deficits. The difference between income and expenditure is increasing. With this rebalancing, we're again raising revenue by 5 billion kuna due to fighter planes and this unfortunate health that we can't control, and then it's going to happen what, a part of the debt to the wholesalers will be paid, and in about three months' time, the same story will happen again. The only thing more embarrassing about this rebalancing than the health care that only swallows, and nobody cares about it is where you took the money from. It's, of course, a recovery after the earthquake. If we find an excuse for health and say that the crown has slowed down the reforms that should have happened with it, even though we know there were none, there is absolutely no excuse for the renovation. It is the biggest disgrace of this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic. And the greatest shame of any government for a long time. Soon in Zagreb, there will be 2 years of earthquakes, and they have failed to bring down 3 houses, and I am not 100% sure about those 3 houses either. What did Minister Maric do in rebalancing? He took it where there was nothing to do, to rebuild. And if anyone had any dilemma about the restoration that's going on, it's not about, about Minister Horvat who can go quite often and say that we don't understand this restoration that's happening, it's about rebuilding but we don't understand it. So we don't understand the law or anything else then this rebalancing has shown no renewal. There are those of us in this assembly who warned about this fact right after the earthquake in Zagreb when the price of construction material was slightly different, when the workforce was little longer, and now we actually have the following. We who pointed out that the fund should not be of course not be because about 80% of the project's projected budget through this rebalancing was taken by Minister Maric for the simple reason that no one there is doing anything. And what I have to say is, this rebalance shows that even those unambitious plans that were in the fund didn't work out. And here's before my colleague Puljak, otherwise on the revenue side, you expect VAT revenue growth of 2.5 billion kuna for tourism and personal consumption. Well, dear secretary of state, I hope it's a great opportunity to cut the female tax or VAT to hygienic pads and tampons. It's probably not expected within this rebalance, but I'll see you in 3-4 weeks on the budget. And as long as I'm going to talk from this phone booth, I'm going to remind you of that, and there in six months, I'm going to ask you what you've done and I'm going to do about the commitment that the government has prescribed to the government on the analyses that you need to make, and it's about hygienic pads and tampons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68453	I thank the chairman. So, if we went to briefly say a few sentences about this second rebalancing in the state budget this year, we could say it like this. Therefore, the reconstruction is not even in the tracks, the EU funds are not being used as planned, health is a black hole that is growing with every rebalancing, each new budget increases, and the government is not even considering any reforms, any structural reforms that would increase economic growth. It's particularly strange when the government is talking about saving the economy, saving jobs, here's a concrete point of whether we've heard it in replicas, so the reduction in the liquidity insurance funds of 1.5 billion kuna, so the funds for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the HABOR item were projected a billion and a half in this rebalance were brought to zero. Also credit guarantee programmes for the economy, therefore more than 600 million kuna were taken. So what concerns are qualitative indicators visible from this rebalancing proposal. The increase in expenditure financed by taxpayers' burden of 7.1 billion kuna while reducing expenditures that were to be financed by the EU and other sources by 1.1 billion kuna. So all of this together actually points to a lack of administrative capacity of the state administration. The rebalancing reduces spending on the vast majority of planned EU projects, almost no budget user who does not record the incursion in the realisation of planned projects. The same conclusion also points to a proposed increase in defence expenditure of 2.4 billion kuna. So, as it is illogical to pay for 3 years in advance, it is equally incomprehensible that no funding for the most expensive procurement in the history of the Ministry of Defence has been planned in the budget. The incompetence and irresponsibility shown in these segments is actually a small matter compared to the true champions in incompetence and indifference in their work, and this is already many times we have heard here the Ministry of Health, which, each year, lets us know that they do not manage the health system with their demands to increase budgets. They didn't miss it even in the first rebalancing this year, and here they are again and now. The demand for a new 2.3 billion kuna increase is more than enough reason to seek out a new health minister. In the year in which the amount of services provided to patients is reduced, consumption is running new records. The failure of the system announced by the Association of Medical Doctors, we heard and now in the hospital Split is moving on to a cold drive, I can't take it anymore, there's not enough, there's not enough staff. So that's not the cause of the crown, and what we'll often justify is that in the next period as we've justified ourselves for 25 years by the Homeland War whether it's a difficult situation in the country, now, from today on, from last year on, we'll be justifying the crown by the crisis, right? So the failure of the system, the health system, is not due to the root of the crisis, but precisely because structural reforms have not been in motion for years. How the health system was arranged was best seen at the beginning of the epidemic. The medical staff worked under extremely difficult conditions, received lower salaries than their colleagues sent home. Although the reasons for this anomaly remained not sufficiently explained, it is indisputable that the system is complex so that it is reluctant to pay much more than work. This disorder will eventually result in our fellow citizens whose homes died in an earthquake. Because like I said, there's no sign of this rebalancing. The refurbishment items are scattered on various items that are all being reduced individually, so we can't really figure out how much recovery funds are planned and how much is realised. In short, this rebalancing if justified in the section relating to increased support for job conservation in activities affected by the coronary virus remained cost increases are the result of unhappiness and irresponsibility. Increases not related to pandemic expenditure e.g. The expenditure on employees and pensions of 1.7 billion kuna will be spent in the future, as well as talking about the need for urgent reforms from health care, pension system, local self-government, and this government has repeatedly shown that it does not care about these reforms, nor that it has them in mind at all. Even here is the Commission for Fiscal Policy, as it has pointed out many times so far, the need for better planning and control of expenditure, the expenditure on employees and pensions, and especially in the health system, which is often initially unrealistically planning to increase their amounts by subsequent changes. So here I am reading from their report, the Commission believes that part of the increased state spending was not focused on expenditure directly related to the fight against the pandemic and related economic damage, nor was it recommended by the temporary character, but was already referring to a sustained increase in general budget spending in the light of the expenditures mentioned here for employees and pensions. So, here's the economic stagnation of Croatia will continue and after this pandemic if structural problems are not resolved, the public sector needs to be reduced to reform, judicial reform, health care is crying out for reforms, and there is reform local and regional self-government. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68454	Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Most, first Mr. Bulj will speak and then Mr. Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68455	Thank you very much. When we talk about rebalancing, then our indicators must be not only the number on paper but also the current situation on the situation in society, the situation, the price situation. Here we are at this point witnessing that 40%, 30% of the oil has accumulated, flour, fat, vegetables, fruits, milk, energys are wild. Here's an example that the ministry knows that probably, but let the citizens, the MPs, last year the Cetin Province's waterworks called for a tender, a public call for energy as electrically as necessary for pumps and everything, was a price of 2 and a half million kunas 2 and 2. This year for the same thing, it's about $5.5 million. So for one water line, so is all the water lines, so is Split water lines, so is all the water lines in the Republic area, which means that prices will affect everything that's going on. Energies are wild, that's visible. We need to talk about self-sufficiency at this point. The key problem was mentioned by a colleague named Pupovac. So we have a problem of self-sufficiency. We spend too much money, not too much, but we spend a lot of money, it'd trim more, but it'd be effective for incentives. At this point, we have an increase in agricultural land use, which is mostly karst pastures, an increase in incentives, but we have no results in meat, milk. Which means that we need to check these incentives and they are very important, they are of national security that in areas such as the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia and the rest of our places that are empty that we have an incentive here and that is the basis for our agriculture. As for self-sufficiency, we can plan 3 billion enough, but we have 700,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, of which 250,000 hectares of state land is unprocessed. At this moment, we are going to go into the wild with food prices when inflation, when we have entered some kind of spiral of collection and uncontrollable price growth, we have done nothing here to strengthen Croatian farmers, to strengthen it, and thus the entrepreneurs, and so the businessmen in this competition will have problems. And the results I mentioned, the key result is 275,000 emigrated Croats in the last 10 years, 5% of the population, the only increase in the city of Zagreb is significant, the only increase. Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora has been wiped out, we're losing sovereignty, it's national security. And now the question is what do you do? So the state is centralized, if the full power and fiscal and capacity of all the ministries are in Zagreb, everything is in Zagreb and the economy, what is going on? It happens that two-thirds of rural Croatia are essentially empty or empty at this point and is the primary goal of keeping those areas populated. What policies we conduct, it is visible from these surveys, 275,000 people less in Croatia in the last 10 years 5%, it is Zadar County and the non-retva County together has so many evicted people we have less in the Republic of Croatia. We have to talk here or about the target boycott, I'm moba giving examples of why it's more important tunnel there to Sanader's gesture of a wolf, it's important, i.e. A road costing 40 million kunas than the Cetin province that has 50 has a huge potential with a fast road of some 200 million kunas, an area larger than Međimurje County, according to the number of residents of Lika-Senj County, that is the potential of development. So is the property area, and the Knin region and the Drin area and the Sibenik area and the hinterland we speak also of Zadar, but more important is Sanader and Boban's drill 40 million kuna given for a road and better boycott these important vertical roads. And those are the promises that are given in the Split session. The same thing is for Slavonia, mentioned project Slavonia, look at the results of the eviction of people from that area. Why? Are these incentives mainly given to people who are close to HDZ, European means of speaking and projects. So we here have to be real, we don't want to be black, we have the best country, we have at this point 20% of GDP since the tourist season. And there you were unfair, I'm not going to mention now that in Sinj he has to race an alcarus apart from a horse, shoot an alcoquet, and while in other places there were normal hilifes, it was one indiscipline, but a political coup he wouldn't talk about. Tourism is important to us, but if we don't have agriculture as an additional value, if we have unprocessed synthetic, Drinky, I don't know, property fields, then we're in trouble or our Slavonia. We're importing goods like through import lobbys that we place on the market, we're not self-sufficient, hey pomadors. We don't have irrigation, the counties that are responsible haven't done anything we have watered our fields and agricultural land. And if anyone came out of Israel, or from some place, and they laughed, I think. More Cetina's one stream casts out in one day water than all springs in Israel, and they conquer the wilderness. Therefore, I would say once again, I think that the central state is knowingly or unconsciously boycotting, and I will not even mention the recovery results, that the state is knowingly or unconsciously boycotting two thirds of Croatia which is the potential of development, because we have the key to self-sufficiency, it is agricultural land. We have money from European funds, and we have made a statistical error of the EU within the system of agriculture. So we're just talking about rebalancing here, if we're talking about infrastructure, if we're talking about any projects, then we have to be realistic about it. I also observe kindergartens, so some municipalities can't provide for a kindergarten, for one child I can't provide a kindergarten. So we have 500 municipalities and cities, China and America don't have that much together, so it's a mockery with common sense. So if the triba now... no matter what I'm mayor, let's go to this election right now and sort of arrange to be functional, because this kind of gig is just to win which point, we'll soon have a lot, a lot less voters you'll have. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, those who are against you will be in Ireland.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68456	Mr. Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68457	Mr Furio Radin, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues, colleagues. The rebalance of the state budget for the current year and the proposal for the state budget for next year may be summed up by a single Latin maximum "niil new sub-sole of croatika", nothing new under the sun Croatian. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric, the Minister of Health, and the manager with the Brussels address, has been announcing reforms for the fifth year in a row, the figures and projections of income and expenditure suggest that this government is still lacking more courage and more willing to deal with the problems that are becoming more and more firm year by year by the bottom of almost all relevant indicators of quality of life and prosperity. If I wanted to be ironic without getting into some sarcasm, I could say that there is only one exception to corruption because we are the unhindered rulers of the European continent. Once both personal consumption and trade exports from 2022 have been strongly pushed into growth in 2021, the government expects fuel to come from investments and exports of services, expecting a further strong recovery of tourism next year. We know that our country's tourism is a straw of salvation and thank God we have it. With such movements, the government expects a gradual awareness of the deficit, the consolidation of central state finances below 2% of GDP, and the ratio of public debt and GDP to about 75%. We heard before the minister talked about what would happen, and then we mentioned the 60%, but despite the fact that both Prime Minister and Minister Maric and this budget show, here I would say my own inambitiousness when it comes to Croatian national interests, the well-being of the nation, the question of how realistic is this plan at all, objective? The rebalancing deficit is the consolidation of general state finances of 4.5% of GDP rather than in the first rebalance before summer, remember 3.6% although revenues are higher by over 3 billion kunas of some 3.3 billion kuna. Meanwhile, 7 billion new expenditures have also occurred, most of which are the first expenditures for aircraft, I would almost say let them, and a little more spending on public health 1.6 billion, and after a large recovery from the first half of the year that was already included in the first rebalancing before the summer. And that's what we hear from the prime minister's associates, there's a lot of talk about in public space, and I guess that's what an increase in expenditure will consider justified and inevitable, but that's not exactly the case. Although health problems could be talked about for hours and be able to have a special topic, the fact is that the problems are more or less known to everyone and that they are not just here by coming covid, so we now have health care in problems. It's not exactly like that, covid is one way, so I could just say I'm bareing the real condition that we have in Croatian health care. It is important to note that all public expenditures are subject to the law of inert or once they jump to a higher level with these levels is difficult or almost impossible to land in some real Croatian frameworks. As for the revenue parties, the 2022 income projection shows that we expect further growth in revenues, but mainly due to the withdrawal of eu funds. We heard the same thing before colleagues on the left who argued why it was good. We are left to see how much of the planned success we will withdraw, and the home portion of the revenue is growing in line with the nominal GDP, which means that the government does not expect to carry out any significant redundancies or introduce significant new burdens. It's a shame that in this good time for brave political moves because I think that always challenging times are good because in challenging times you see exactly, as you would say, who hides in a bunker, and who goes out on the front line like our guys did on the front line, and someone hides in a bunker what you're going to do, it's legitimately both, but it's important that we know who's holding there and who's doing the brave political moves. When there is no choice, once again sacrificed ambition to introduce discharges. So, the Mosta Club believes that this policy, a policy of its kind of ceasefire, without real vision, without real courage, without clear direction and reforms with impatience, is awaiting future involvement in the bodies, um of a European bureaucratic apparatus as some sort of reward for finally introducing the euro and implementing the continuity of the policy that its predecessors have implemented in one way, except for the first Croatian president at the head of the ruling party "niil a new subject of solo croatics".
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68458	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bakic will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. The projected VAT revenue increase of 2.5 billion kuna or almost 5% is really good news and important and good. Anything else that matters new, which is really new in this rebalancing compared to the one from June isn't good enough. Expenditure financed by the so-called so-called Sources affecting the result of the budget, so general income and receipts, are increasing by as much as 7 billion and 100 million kuna. Paradoxically, the worse news is that expenditure financed by EU funds is shrinking by as much as a billion and 100 million kuna, as this is explained by the reduction of these expenditures actually reflects the dynamics of our post-crisis recovery. And with that dynamic despite all the objective difficulties no one thinks I can really say no one can be satisfied. Here's just part of what we didn't do, and what this rebalance records. In the Ministry of Spatial Planning in an activity called Sanacija the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb we had originally planned 820 million kuna, with the June rebalancing we reduced it to 624.5 to reduce it to less than 82 million, so to less than 10% of the original amount. The Ministry of Culture foresees a reduction in expenditure in the recovery of damage caused by the earthquake in archives and museums and galleries by more than 60%. In education, all projects rebuild infrastructure, and there are six, all six, whether it's schools or high schools or institutes, whether it's projects funded by the Solidarity Fund or possibly from the NPOO, have dropped dramatically, five of them six and over 90%. In health care, the costs of rebuilding earthquake-damaged health institutions have been reduced from 445 to just 40 million, so again to less than 10%, and so in the sum of the paragraph, we will sub-count or we will be adding more than billions of kunas of our ineffectiveness, our inaction or lateness to the least said. And by the way to say, it would be useful, I think, and useful and very important that somewhere in the text section or that we could see somewhere in the text section in the explanation the table of the summary display of all the original estimated expenditures and changes that are now proposed in all the positions in all the activities and all the projects relating to the renovation. On the other hand, the expenditures we finance with our own money, so taxes and contributions are planned to increase by as much as 7 billion kuna and 100 million kuna, from what we've heard, and so it says as much as 2 billion and 300 million kuna, is a new additional obligation, or health expenditure. I don't know which way it repeats itself again and again we see that this kind of health care system is impeccable, and it gets deeper every year. It is clear that an energy reform of health is necessary, all we need to see is how much longer we will wait for it and who will have the courage and strength to spend it. Along the road to page 10 in the review of these 7 billion and 100 million kunas of new expenditures are listed only 6.6 billion and only 1.5 billion for health care. It's not clear where the rest is, we've heard something from the Minister's opening statement that it's a long-ass drug deal, but it's still not clear where all those 7.1 billion are, it looks like the sum we have is 6.6, but good. Furthermore, there are 2 billion and 400 million kunas for the purchase of fighter aircraft. Maybe it's and it's about previous arrangements, but I have to notice in the middle of all the worries and troubles in front of all the other needs that we need right in the middle of everything and in front of everything right now, I don't think it is. Now I understand, the minister said this is about the booking issue and that the actual cost will not actually come until 2022. However, the content recorded remains the same. And a little bit more and more that seems important to me to mention when we're talking about those 7 billion and 100 million kunas of additional expenditure. In this amount, it is equally stated in the explanation of the following, 929 million kuna of staff expenditure including salaries in primary and secondary education, 672 million additional pension funds and 495 million additional contributions from the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget. Yes, the minister also talked about it in the opening statement and it was also said and then, as we know, none of it is really new, all of these items or all of these amounts were known before, actually predictable even in the construction of the original budget, and especially in the rebalancing process in June. There are probably good reasons, something the minister was talking about, which is why we are now predicting an increase in these items. However, it would not be good to get the impression that somehow it remains an impression of this debate, and especially of these documents as if this is about something really new, as if in reality we have a new increase in the unforeseen, unplanned increase in any teacher's salary, for example. any pensions. And finally another observation of the last note of those 7 billion and 100 million kuna additional expenditures financed from the general incomes. I think it can be said that the net increase in expenditure is actually higher because if we're not on the spell we're planned to rebuild, and we're not, which proves both those neutral billions and 100 million kunas from the eu funds intended for... reconstruction, so if we didn't find everything planned in the reconstruction then we certainly didn't make it in those planned, not in the projects that were carried out, or in those parts of the jobs that were intended to be financed by our money from the general incomes. So it turns out that now that we see 7.1 billion new expenditures or better said cost increases compared to the plan, it's actually not just those 7 billion and 100 million new expenditures compared to the plan, but it's still about that part of the expenditure that replaced that money that wasn't spent on rebuilding jobs. And in the end, only two more or three short remarks. A fighting armored vehicle not only holds tight in our budget but we can't guess how much it'll cost. Now we have a 40% reduction again. I remind you, originally, so it was originally a fighting armored vehicle that cost 5 million kuna, and then we rebalanced it by about 70%, and now we're down 40%. It would be interesting to finally find out everything about a combat armored vehicle. Secondly, a 6.5% increase in the decentralised position in both education and health care is visible. We hope that this is now harmonised and that this is the final adjustment of the tax changes made. And finally, the last thing I'd really like to look back on, in the education division in the activities floor, under the designation A867004, is the financing of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. The problem is that this funding for each rebalancing is exactly halved. In the original budget for this year for this purpose, we predicted around 160,000 kuna, then in June in the first rebalancing this year we cut it in half, down to 76,000, so that we would now predict an even smaller amount of 41,500. So somehow it turns out that the half-life of the funds for the work of the Committee on Ethics, Science, and Higher Education is about equal to the time of budgetary changes. I don't know what could be a worse message that we're sending not only to ethics in science and higher education, but also to the board that takes care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68460	Now, Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulica will present the views of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68461	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard a lot about this rebalancing, some skillfully use numbers to show the situation perhaps in a positive light to justify certain things, on the other hand I think and justifiably criticise the final appearance of this rebalancing. I will try something here I would dare to say, objectively from the perspective of the average taxpayer in Croatia, whether he can be satisfied with the way the funds are used. I will remind you that the state, therefore, public administration as such does not create additional values but only the real sector. In fact, the budget is in some ways a list of the priorities of the current government. We have nearly 11,000 items in the budget, so the question is when we hear about transparency, is it possible in a transparent way to show the budget to ordinary people, who will manage it. I've tried to prepare myself for today's point just so the viewers and the general public understand us, so over 700 pages contains all these items. So it's a huge document and what I can't take away the impression that actually the main idea behind the current government's policy is that public spending is actually needed, an increase in public spending justifies. We've heard how much the covid costs, we know that they're ungrateful circumstances, but even before the covid, we've had a rise in budgets for years, I'm going to remind people just to get context. Today with a rebalancing expenditure amounted to over 170 billion kuna, about 10 years ago that amount was 118, and I will repeat that Croatia had more population than today, so it was less spent, and we had more people. Thus, no matter what is said today in the assembly, the fact is that an increasing number of people depend directly or indirectly on such consumption. When public companies are added, we can talk about the share of the total state that is over 60% of GDP. The very public consumption of new EU members, we are at the top, so others are dealing with less, and countries like Ireland that are at the bottom of the share of public spending in GDP are those countries that attract, attract people from abroad, and also our people to come looking for new jobs, not those jobs unfortunately in Croatia or those that are created are too slow, too slow, so we lose the game. Unfortunately, I will repeat, the public administration has repeatedly proven to be dysfunctional, unable to solve large-scale citizens' problems in an efficient way, best shown after the earthquake. So the question arises, and these funds that we have available from the eu funds, how will they be spent? Because the experience shows in the last eight years. Regardless of improvement, improvement of infrastructure and other things that are indisputable we have a growing number of people, so eu funds are not a guarantee of the well-being of our people, simply that is the conclusion. And what about some sectors that would, in fact, be out of control as health care? It's a state of out of control where Minister Maric himself you admit that every free kuna you actually pour into that hole without a bottom. So this year the total cost of our health care will be around 38 billion kuna. For all people who are still thinking about free health or living in such illusions, the actual amount is 38 billion. And today we hear that, for example, in KBC Split, they have to reduce the number of procedures and actually fall on a cold drive beyond such amounts. So, the service is getting smaller and the money is, I'll repeat, no control spending. So what is often said as a success, let's say the tax discharge of citizens, which certainly welcomes the Homeland Movement, will have no real effect without structural reforms, simply one thing or is related to another and we cannot expect real shifts without these reforms, which unfortunately continue to be delayed. We often talk about one inherited mentality in Croatia that is present, we have very many symptoms of that mentality, but I will remind you of this recent price debate, including this decision to freeze the price of fuel. The state did not want, it was not ready to reduce the high excise duties on these products, so the approach was to relocate the burden to others, not what was much harder to reduce its own appetites and bring that part of public finances into order. So it repeats, as if we were spinning around in a vicious circle and we couldn't get rid of that mentality like other countries in Central and Eastern Europe made much more powerful than we did. The well-known economist Milton Friedman once said, Nobel Prize winner Milton Friedman that in fact only individuals learn from their mistakes, governments never do. Governments repeat the same mistakes because it simply turns out that, yes, they can, there will be no consequences for such behavior. An individual if he does not learn and adapt his behavior will continue to fall deeper into problems, and as far as the political sphere is concerned, it seems to me that they are worth different rules. Someone might say, often I hear it as a comment on this state, a cynical comment that actually leaving our people is not some particular problem for ruling structures, for HDZ and partners because their voters stay, they succeed when they appear in competitions, they are not citizens of the second order but they can prosper and maybe that layer, that small layer of people lives better than this increased public spending, but for others we can't say that, we just can't. That's what the indicators clearly confirm and we can't get away from it. So the budget either serves the development of the country or not. Other countries seem smarter to me than to spend money. The share of public spending may also be quite high, but the impact is much better than in Croatia. Here often when we look at these items it turns out that we buy social peace, that it's simply spent to keep it, it keeps a certain number of jobs so those people don't leave, too. And it's worth unfortunately at a time when we have good economic growth. Now it may be much harder to implement structural reforms, at least recently, but also when good years, when conjunctures are much, much better-looking and then reforms have not been implemented. So this all points to the conclusion that we actually have a government status quo that has no willingness to enter into larger ventures and the price of this inaction is very high, very high. Not only when we look at the number of people in Croatia will certainly be significantly smaller than before, and this is the first indicator that enters the eyes that actually whatever you think about other countries, those that attract people and who are actually a magnet for workers have a good model. Apparently they found a good model of governance, we didn't. When I compare with other countries that are somewhat in a similar situation immediately and quickly, we see how much time we have actually lost. Slovakia is a country that I often highlight and which has implemented to a significant extent structural reform, today has 5,000 euros more GDP per capita than we do. This is at an annual level so around 20 billion euros are being created more in one Slovakia than in us. So respected colleagues and colleagues, the Homeland Movement cannot support this rebalancing. It is actually a reflection of certain impotences of the ruling to deal more courageously with the problem and we appeal once again to give up this approach that the state must be great, must be very involved in the economy to ensure well-being, I think the opposite is actually true. So a strong economy is a solution, and we need a limited role in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68462	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović will present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68463	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Another rebalancing, expected no one was really surprised, and I think that we are already at the adoption, when we've been making a budget for this year many of us have said that this macroeconomic framework is quite unrealistic and that there is a large amount of uncertainty in both our environment and ours. I personally pointed out at the first rebalancing that I hope this second one will only be technical, but unfortunately several ministries have made sure that this is not so and this is becoming a growing problem because we have bigger incomes and not just because of the tourist season, it should be made clear and loud. The fact is that increased VAT revenues are also due to price increases. So, just look at the prices of oil derivatives, it's not the same as if it's 8 kuna liters of gasoline or 11, so it's not just about motor fuels, it's not just energy, there's certain food supplies and it's all essentially paid by our citizens who fill the budget. And regardless of this growth in income that is noticeable, obviously these revenues are not growing enough because expenditure is growing even faster and ultimately the result is a deficit which is 4.7 means 4.5 when these extra-accounts are added, which is again more significant than what is planned. If you remember, we entered this year with a projection of the deficit that was supposed to be below 3%, and this projection reflects more of the desire to introduce the euro as soon as possible than it was real at that time, so it went more along with that people's "what the grandmother had dreamed of," and eventually it turns out that wishes are one thing, and possibilities are quite another. In order not to make it all black in this one, and in the last year, our exporters took care of it in the goods export category. Why am I pointing them out? Because they have indeed shown in this crisis how resilient and powerful this segment of our economy is. And I'm going to point out one more time, even though I've said it many times over this pay phone, but obviously it's worth repeating. Re-industrialisation and production is exactly what we need because this is exactly the segment of our economy that is most resistant to the crisis and to these impacts that the economy is suffering. So here I have to say for this speaker, it would be interesting to hear from the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, which is what he does and if anything is working on that part of this production that is returning to Europe is also being located here in Croatia. So, due to the reduction of supply chains, due to the increased environmental protection requirements, part of the production capacity is coming from China and whether from the Far East is returning here to Europe and my question is what Croatia is doing, whether something is doing to attract investors or when this wave passes again, we should have done something, but then it will be just another missed opportunity and it will be too late for that. What's interesting, what drew me attention is that the revenues from the contributions are reduced although the creators of the document ahead say that labour market movements are favourable, we have good employment, workers are shorthanded in certain activities, and the revenues from the contributions are smaller, and then somehow it gives me a conclusion that in the real sector wages are somewhat less than they should be and that in this crisis they are reduced because in the public sector as we heard and in this rebalancing, certain funds are provided for pay corrections are higher. And so let's not break our heads about why our people are going to live in richer countries, the answer is pretty clear. And let's not nag at the fact that we don't have enough workforce because it's obviously going to get worse. And I'm going to give you just one piece of information that's related to the number of students in Osijek-Baranja County. Namely, it's a county that's registered in the last 10 years. the largest decline in the number of inhabitants and during that period, in those last 10 years. The number of primary and secondary school students was reduced by a third by 33%. The average number of students in the classroom in primary schools is 14 students. I think these figures are brutally clear, they say everything and our future isn't bright, though. What concerns me about this material is the fact that in the position of income from aid we have a reduction of two billion kunas, and these are mostly various projects financed from European funds from the eu budget, and why do I care? Because if you are looking at projections by 2024 means, in principle, the use of funds not only from the multiannual financial framework but also from the EU of the New Generation, there are much shorter withdrawal deadlines and are linked to very measurable indicators that must be met, and they will be measured not only at the end but also during the withdrawal of funds. We have tied our economic growth to these funds a lot, and if we continue to withdraw funds this badly, this could negatively affect both economic growth and all of this, to these projections that we are entering in the next period. What's also interesting, which is an increase in financial expenditures by 380 million kuna, and here I return to what I said in the replica, and that's the growth of public debt from 2019 to 2024, which means in 5 g. rises by some 90 billion kuna, in absolute terms that public debt has exploded and should be made clear. Is that we have refinanced a good part of the debt of about 80% now while they are favourable interest rates, but we have additionally committed ourselves, which will be a financial burden. The cost structure in principle only further confirms what we all know for a long time, and this is the fact that the reconstruction has not moved from the dead point and we must ask ourselves what Mr. Vangelic is doing except that he is shooting and transferring responsibility to others and of course why it took the government a year to realize that the Rehabilitation Act was bad, and even these new changes are probably not going to bring any good, although there is a space for irregularities and possible corruption that we sovereigns and were restrained last week at the vote. There's been a lot of debate in the talks on the purchase of planes and these increased expenditures in the defense position due to the purchase of fighter planes, and here we could discuss whether or not they had the best choice, but that story is over. And here, as I assumed one part of the assembly was looking so reluctantly at that part, but here I have to say on behalf of the Croatian sovereigns that we welcome anything that strengthens the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, and thus the acquisition of fighter aircraft. We don't mind that part, though. What we all know, what we've been listening to for a year now, it's about health care and pension systems that remain wound cancer, a bottomless hole in which everything that goes missing at the speed of light, and there's somehow that year of inaction, the staffing on the political line, led to the fact that there are no economists in Osijek at all, but among other things, a graduate social worker and a traffic engineer. And what a surprise, then, that in health care money leaks all over the place. In principle, when we look at examples like this, I would dare say that we are still well. So we also heard last week that there were 20% less reviews in primary health care, less surgery, less specialist examinations, less preventive checks, and costs are increasing. It's an enigma that probably none of us have the answer to, maybe we get it eventually. It is noted that health and defence are co-loctimalally said winners of this rebalancing process, but if a little closer look at agriculture and agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture also gets 223 million kunas more, and for the water and sewerage never enough resources, so water supply will also be richer by 857 million kunas more than planned. So the pension system is still 684 million kunas, perhaps because a colleague of the Hrelja has moved from the opposition to the position. And then the programme for national minorities that will receive an additional 24 million kuna, and already reduced funds for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are further reduced by half a million kuna, as much as we hold to our diaspora. Another loser is the port administrations that are also getting fewer funds. I will point out here the Port Authority of Osijek, which reduces the funds by 100 million kuna, and most of it refers to the Terminal for bulked burdens, a project financed from European funds which is very questionable, but also cost-effectiveness at all, because the concessionaire pays 100 thousand kuna a year in the name of the concession, which means that the refund of funds invested in that terminal will be approximately 1400. I'm gonna need him back invested. In the end, I'll just add that yesterday he finished that summit in Glasgow, but with this rebalancing, we're cutting resources both for nature protection and for waste management and how much I saw in projections and in 2024 we'll halve the amount that's for environmental protection. So much for sustainable development. The National Statistics Institute is also interesting, the census will cost us 125 million kuna. Otherwise, most of the countries in Europe have a population register, and we're supposed to have one, too, but the question is when, because the census is still not over and it doesn't know when it's going to be over. And finally, my kind of favorite pearl without a single HZ-Infrastructure that made sure that the Ministry of Health wasn't probably the worst thing in this rebalancing because the state of our railways could be talked about for hours that the train from Osijek to Koška drives 60 km/h, the infrastructure is crying out for investment, and yet when we look at this rebalancing, we see that those hundreds of millions of kunas didn't pull out of the funds because they say the epidemic has slowed down the works. So now you tell me, so there's no renewal of modernization, no beginning on already agreed projects because there's an epidemic and let's remind ourselves where the work on the tracks is done, in the lab, or maybe outside in the fresh air? The whole time the construction epidemic has been growing, only our dear HZ can't work even though there's money, there's employees, but that unfortunate epidemic slows down their desire and elan to restore our railroads. And while trains in Europe run 300 km/h, we drive from Zagreb to Vinkovac for 4 hours today, and in 1990 we drove for 2 hours, so now we drive twice as long. And I'll just point out that we're funding these same railroads with 465 million kunas charged through excise duties in the price of motor fuels. So we finance these slow and bad railways through a high fuel price, if any of the state's public enterprises is too much. We can't support this rebalance and we won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68464	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the esteemed representative of Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68465	Dear Vice President HS, respected and respected ministers with associates. HSLS believes this has been an extremely challenging time for our country. All that we've been through in the last two years, the pandemic and the high expenditure precisely for maintaining costs and pandemics and keeping jobs were really very challenging and the last such a major crisis was 10 years ago. And that's exactly how long it took us to recover from it. Our liberals at the time were just most concerned that it was the 10th year. marked quite a high raise of tax duties. Let's just think of the tax so-called. The imposition of harras, let's just remember raising VAT through Plan 21 to 25%, so 25% today is one of the largest tax rates in the EU. Ten years old. Instead of working on how and how to get out of the crisis we've been patching up the budget by raising tax presses, primarily on the back of those who create and contribute most to that same budget, which are entrepreneurs. It's a big deal that this time we're different than we were 10 years ago. He was able to make a little bit different and that there was no lifting. I congratulate Minister Maric on the fact that there was no tax withdrawal, usually every minister knows the most, I think it's always the easiest thing to do when a crisis comes to simply raise taxes and then you don't have any problems, someone else will pay. We made it much smarter this time, I think we got along well and that some good things were done when he said I would have some slight growth and that we had managed to make certain mini tax reforms that the minister had spent with his tax team, with his team at the ministry. We think we should also say that it's good that we've been able to reprogram certain loans. That's how we believed and raised our own, I'd say the ratings we have with the world's financial agencies, the world's financial houses. And I'm personally glad if the information is correct that we're only in 2 years. I think that Minister Maric said that in the media, he would have fallen to 60% of GDP and now, of course, we have a lot of MPs, today he talked about how the public debt exploded, the public debt of Croatia exploded, and some other major European countries exploded because I don't know if you noticed or not, but the last 2nd year. We have a pandemic. The budget rebalance is therefore on everything seen around the pandemic, around the covid, quite realistic, income is good, growth, we can certainly thank the excellent tourist season and GDP growth of 9%. Now, after a little bit of praise, now I have to express what I'm a little bit more concerned about. What concerns me, of course, is the constant growth of expenditure, in this case more than six billion kuna, as well as the budget deficit of 19.7 billion kuna. The minister himself said that he was not satisfied with how the health situation is developing and that it simply needs to be put to an end because it simply won't be able to control it anymore. As a result of our entry into the euro zone, which we as liberals absolutely and earnestly support, it is extremely important that we stick to certain master criteria, and we all know what they mean, especially with regard to the 3% deficit, I hope that next year we will be able to get close to exactly that 3% deficit so that nothing would really compromise what I consider from the perspective of a moderate liberal democratic policy, which is the entry into the euro area that will again very much help develop our economy, especially exporters. HSLS will support this budget rebalance, but I'd like to draw attention to two more things. In fact, for several years in a row, exactly what I mentioned, health debts, now that my colleague mentioned debts in HZ, are growing, we are not seeing this end, and it is something that we need to pay attention to right now, when we are already seeing a slow exit from the crisis, when we see the budget rising, when incomes are slowly growing, economic activity is waking up, I think it is right now, and I have a feeling that I heard from my colleague, Minister Maric, that he said right now in the coming years that we have to commit to serious structural reforms, not just reforms in health, but reforms in both the railways and in some other segments of public administration. All these problems of not implementing structural reforms cancel some of the other good moves of this Ministry to finance, and we fear that precisely the inability to control all these expenditures will not give us the opportunity to open up the space more strongly for an even stronger cycle of tax reforms when we next budget. That's what I still think is missing as some kind of cream on this cake I'd say financial stabilisation to try to further through these implementations of structural reforms find some space to make a few more cycles of tax reform. I am aware that such things do not go overnight, but we managed to make them in 2018, '19, 2020, and I believe that in the next years that come to the end of our mandate we can make some more of these steps. We expect a lot from the NPOO, but that money won't really be able to pull if this doesn't happen all I've been saying, and that's exactly what these structural reforms are. The NPOO gives many billions of kunas, gives them for digitisation, gives them for reform in the judiciary, in some other systems of the state administration, and gives us precisely because we would finally implement these reforms to have enough financial resources for us to really, in the right sense, get the words out of the crisis, so that we would just stabilise finance and put all these crazy expenditures that simply the money of the girl through our hands that really reforms are being implemented and that, in addition to health, we would start a truly complete reform of the entire state administration, the entire state apparatus. Only in our view in HSLS, by discharging entrepreneurship, by strengthening it, by deregulation, by reducing bureaucracy and a three-way bureaucratic apparatus, can we increase wages and boost self-employment. The budget itself is always an act that most people adopt, the opposition always has the ability to say something to constructive proposals on everything. I wanted to give one general picture today that this is one in a series of budget rebalances. Soon we will be working on the main budget, but in the long term, this budget that we are going to be doing will certainly still be under certain influences of all this that has been happening around the pandemic and around the coronaryvirus, but in the long run, and I say here I am particularly glad that the minister has given certain indications that simply without certain structural reforms we will not be able to make all of us eager steps towards controlling budgetary expenditures, deregulation of entrepreneurship and strengthening entrepreneurship, and I am only telling me what is important to me today what you have been saying in your speeches, which is to stop demographics, so to try to increase wages and increase the number of jobs or specifically creating new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68466	Next is the debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68467	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, unfortunately, here's another rebalance with another increase in deficits. This time the planned deficit is 18.9 billion kuna and 1.8 billion kuna, respectively, more than was planned in June of this year, and that's about 4.5% of GDP. I will look back at this debate a little while ago and we have really tried to be concrete, and we have praised on many occasions when in some ways the people and entrepreneurs were being taxed, but we have also always pointed out that we did not do it bravely and vigorously enough to further boost economic activity and strengthen the Croatian economy. How vulnerable the economy is, in fact, the decline in GDP that was around 15% last year during the covid crisis, which was if I wasn't wrong about the third largest decline among the EU member states and today when the growth of 9% of GDP is mentioned, it's as if it just didn't happen and we simply ignore the fact that the current share of public debt, how much, is about 87% of GDP, which is, in fact, a lot too much and very questionable that this public debt would have looked like if it hadn't been an excellent tourist season that we had this year, which was actually above all expectations, and there is once again to be thanked to all the tourism workers who made their big contribution to have such a single season. Often and much has been mentioned today, and the topic of health is as I have said cancer of the early state finances. Now we have an increase in this rebalancing of 1.6 billion kuna, this year a total of 9 billion kunas if I'm not mistaken, which means we've pumped about 38 billion kunas into health care this year. And what is even more worrying is these announcements that we have about health reform that are actually trying or where, where it is seen that we will have an additional centralisation of the system that primarily raises the question of how we will deliver health care services to our fellow citizens or patients, because we believe that this is, however, when we talk about reform, the first item that needs to be considered, which is that our citizens are as good as they can be. However, when we talk about centralisation of the system, Minister Beros mentioned that in this way we will actually have a better quality of resources and that we will streamline the costs within the health care system, but he did not mention that according to some calculations, even 75% of all health debts actually create hospitals that are under the state, and it is absolutely not clear in what way Minister Beros plans to rationalise the health system, and even less, it is unclear that when we talk about such a complex system and when we talk about so many debts created by health care that no representative from the Ministry of Finance has been present when this grand health reform plan is being worked to at least try to project what kind of reform will have repercussions and state finances. I therefore hope that this will be revised as soon as possible and that we will have some information as soon as possible how to reduce the debt in healthcare. Also local and regional self-government, mentioning some reforms, it really has nothing to do with any reform di we ask someone if or not they will connect with, with some municipality and whether or not they will connect some, some parts of business between two, two municipalities or more. In fact, if two poor communities are joined together, they will certainly not become rich after the merger, and the rich community will certainly not want to connect with the poor one. It just shows that there is not enough courage to implement those real and serious reforms, and I think we lost another year already fifth in a row to make a new and additional step. We also have the collapse of state property, often mentioned by officials, or local and regional self-government leaders, with certain requirements for certain state assets to be placed under the authority of local and regional self-government to invest as much public money as possible private money and ultimately that repercusion lasts 10.g. And the question is how does it end and what does it invest in? We also have some announcements and austerity measures, but this is what happens when public debt is so large that there is a question of whether the state will be able to finance its obligations or to service debt obligations, but it is unlikely that this will happen because we will be saved by European money. So we think this year is lost too, we haven't and there's no sign of any serious reforms. We believe that it should still be more burdensome for entrepreneurs, that red tape should be reduced, that we should create a more efficient system within the judiciary and digitise the systems of state administration to help entrepreneurs, but also that we should also more transport or give more to the production industry and export industries to make the Croatian economy stronger and better quality. These are some of our remarks in short, and we believe that, already on this budget, we will see that some things move ahead and that in some future period we will create a more quality society, a more quality economy because we believe that the crisis is an opportunity, and in the situation where we have growth of GDP we have produced nothing, no reforms, no shifts are visible, so we hope that we will now be forced to do so by this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68468	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68469	Thank you. Here first, I will refer to the previous two speakers who have claimed that it is necessary to relieve entrepreneurs and that a tax on profits should be reduced. So Minister Maric here has been saying some things that deny you, so you should listen a little bit to what Minister Maric said, so a large part of the budget is being filled through VAT. VAT is a consumption tax that everyone pays and by reducing the repression that you're going to say to the richest we haven't done anything or those reforms we've seen. So the last tax-supervised reform, meaning the fifth wave of tax reform, and the previous tax reforms were going in that direction just diluted the richest with the highest incomes, so the fifth reform was the highest charge for those with over 30,000 kuna gross wages, so that was the last tax reform we had. And Croatia is a recordr by means of collecting taxes on, so VAT on consumption, and income tax and tax on, capital is among the lowest in Europe. So that direction is actually what we're looking at right now and we're seeing the results of that direction. On the contrary, a reform that would follow progressive taxation should be implemented. So progressive taxation means that those with the highest incomes are most taxed, that they tax capital at higher rates, etc., so what we're looking at right now is exactly what you're calling it. Furthermore, she would refer to what is clearly our priority in this rebalancing, the second rebalancing, is. So the moment we have 40 dead a day from covid means for days, the moment we crossed that number of 9,000 dead from the pandemic Covid-19 and the moment our health system falls apart is not our priority health care, so this budget rebalance shows even though Minister Maric tried to answer something else, that the priority is actually defense. So by buying French military planes, we have come to this magical meaning of 2% of the GDP that we are going to reach for defense and that is Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement and that amount of 2% of GDP for defence has been set up by NATO and we have accepted it without any debate. Although the prime minister here told me that Rafali means it will only be for a year means present in Croatia we will pay that amount of 2 billion 400 million or it is reserved in the budget. So we had in the budget booked every year 2 billion HRK 400 million and that's the item we have in the budget. I mean, if we have that item in the budget, then I guess we're counting on it, I don't see what it's about when these military planes are delivered, we're gonna get that money, so those money's located for that purpose. So given that this meal payout is there, by all accounts, that's the advance that's going to be paid, the question is, shouldn't we actually postpone that respite right now, and wouldn't we be as large as one billion euros to what we're going to pay these planes in some way to postpone, is that our priority right now? Minister Banožic is entertained by verbal bursts between him and the president, but he does not answer this question, so we asked him a written question and he did not give us an answer in which way we could expect a round of payment from these planes and in which way we could postpone the routing payment of these planes. Minister Banozic has 7.4 billion kunas that could restore our budget. The third thing I want to say is what I've asked Minister Marić is how much it costs to have a patient on the respirator. So the seriously ill person on the respirator costs now Croatia means all patients on the respirator cost 5 million kuna a day. 5 million kunas Croatian daily salary means patients who are in a difficult state means their treatment. The responsibility for this cost is exclusively borne by the government because what other governments have succeeded, and that is to make the fissure higher. So we have Italy, we have Portugal, we have Spain that did it, and we are in the group of Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine, so at the very bottom of Europe, and we are among the worst towards mortality, so we are 15 per mortality per 100,000 inhabitants in the world, so the government has failed and it costs it. That's what it costs, and that's what it's supposed to be said. So it's currently on the respirator 185 people, that's over 5 million kunas a day, 80% of these people haven't been vaccinated, so somewhere around 4 million kunas go to those who haven't been vaccinated. Furthermore, I would like to say that this new meaning rebalancing can be read again and in some way as I mean undeveloped, in any case one who does not go after that to increase protection at this point from Covid-19, so we have meaning in the distribution of the Ministry of Health protection of the public from infectious diseases planned amounting to just 2 million 580 thousand kuna, means to protect the population from infectious diseases only 2 million 580 thousand kuna. That's really not the amount, which isn't enough. So further, we have at the Ministry of Health means also such a division of pay-out pay-outs for overtime only 264 million kuna and that's a big problem. And the third thing that I'm finding as a problem is the Immunological Institute, which is the amount of only 45 million kunas planned, which is actually unreasonable and incomprehensible, given that it's decided to rebuild the Immunological Institute and that the amount in the first rebalancing was first left unchanged so that it would be further reduced in fact now, regardless of what the government announced to launch immunobiological medicines and build a new factory. We have to admit that the cost of health care has increased, but this is the amount that will really be passed on to the debt of large-scale drugs that, at the time of the Covid-19 crisis, have actually been blackmailed by their delivery and delivery of medicines, and that is why it is important to invest significant resources in the production of domestic medicines and medical equipment. The Immunological Institute is an institution that has a tradition of over 150 years. So in this state of contrast, in this state of the coronary virus, it would be very necessary, and that's precisely to sort of get rid of this yoke of wholesaler. The funds are not said to be increased despite these announcements, and it is unclear how it is meant to launch an immune, immune institution. So these are the things we find in these items. In any case, it means the amount that should be invested for if nothing else means additives, covid, etc. Covid additives to be paid in the higher amount are not reserved here. Let's not say there's not a sufficient amount reserved for overtime, so what are the most needed now? In other countries, wages have been raised or some kind of financial reward has been given. In France on average 183 euros per worker, in Estonia double salaries are paid to all healthcare professionals, in Slovenia we have 200% salary allowance, in Scotland 500 euros per salary, our healthcare workers are practically fighting the pandemic in regular, regular conditions. Workers involved in hospitals and other institutions working intensively with patients if it is not already possible to make the fees more significant then it was necessary to ensure that the work experience was well-fused. So the benefits of an internship have absolute confirmation and there's really no reason not to introduce it. The government's answer to our initiative was that there was not enough resources, but if there was no enough funding for these fees, the benefited working time was an additional cost, but it would not happen at once, he would later come as one expense which in any case has full justification because indeed the pandemic Covid-19 situation which we can compare with the situation in the war. In the war, soldiers were provided with a well-fused job internship and no one asked for any special elaborates as the government replied that we needed in this case that the benefits of a work internship could not be ensured if we didn't have an emborate that would explain the positions in which the structures could justify the benefits of the benefits. It's completely unnecessary, I think it's clear to everyone who these health workers are fighting against Covid-19. These are people who are in respiratory centres, these are people who are facing really difficult and difficult situations and work situations every day. Therefore, it should be paid and increased in the budget for overtime, also because many work overtime. In addition, so here we have in this budget rebalancing again I think the same problems or the same similar problems as we had in previous rebalancing, and should certainly be warned about that, and above all what, many have actually warned that we have assistants in continuing for children with developmental difficulties and in this item something small increased the amount, but it is absolutely insufficient. So, first of all, the budget for these assistants is continuing to reduce the amount to something, by 13%, so that the first budget rebalance would further reduce the funds by 10 million kuna and have now increased by 7 million kuna, so it would seem to be doing something for them because little and in the media, that story, and it's become interesting, but in any case, the funds that are insufficient. These are the people who do good work, who are not constantly employed, some, in fact, many of them work for a salary less than minimum, so that their excessive status is really a difficult and typical dish for the most prominent workers in Croatia in Europe, so there is not one country that has more workers on these contracts, insecure labour contracts, and we are far the biggest champions in Europe according to this statistics, it is beneath us, far below us is France. Otherwise 90% of the contract is 2018, but certainly no better or later, it is signed for a certain time. Among these people are the most young workers there is. Furthermore, we have social aid and benefits that I also think are not insufficient, that they are not sufficient. So the planned amount of 147 million kuna is not enough. Why? Because even before the crown means Croatia has progressed on that scale of poverty and social exclusion, so we have climbed from 7th place to 8th place, so we are basically constantly progressing according to these indicators of poverty and social exclusion. And what do they mean? They mean that almost a million people in Croatia live at risk of poverty or social exclusion, that 6.6% cannot afford adequate heating in the coldest months, that 48.6% cannot afford themselves a week's vacation outside the house, that 7.9% can't afford a meal that contains meat, chicken or vegetarian equivalent every other day, that 51.7% can't settle the unexpected financial expenditure, that 15.7% is late with payment obligations, means housing credit, rent, director's account or consumer credit, etc. means on such a scale we climb up, and social benefits remain more or less the same. The Covid-19 crisis must have only made it worse. The minimum wage as we mentioned and spoke several times in last week's debate, it is not enough for 25% of the monthly cost of a 4-member family with two small children. Croatia is among the 3 euro countries with the lowest employment rate, at the very top is the meaning of these contracts for a certain time, workers at the minimum are actually practically social cases because the minimum wage below that limit is necessary for normal life. So it is necessary to really raise the property censorship to obtain social assistance in order for social assistance to achieve this purpose in a sound and fair way to meet the basic needs of life. Furthermore, of course, apart from the things we find here, not exactly the budget has decided on these radical cuts against historical auditism. In that sense, I will say more in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68470	Here, we've finished this debate by the clubs. We now have at the request of our computer exchange server, 10 minutes break, so we proceed at 16 and 12. It's a 16-03-hour meeting. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,12 HOURS]] Following individual debates, the first reported representative, Boris Lalovac, was the Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, in the budget debate, we actually touched on a number of topics. I'm actually going to try to focus on, on, on two, and one is actually a health system and try a little retrospective to make that there's actually not too much difference in cost control in the healthcare system between HDZ and SDP but there's between finance ministers and health ministers. I have to open up this topic today, yes, and that's the exit of HZZO from the treasury that took place in the mandate of the SDP government where I was against it, even publicly, I wasn't very comfortable being in a government where I was against something, and that's when I said that it wasn't going to lead to savings, that it wouldn't lead to savings, where on the other hand all the ministers were saying when it was done here that it was going to be saved. I would now like all those who talk about it that today when HZO came out of the treasury to say where those savings were, to say where those savings were, was it not to turn out today to defend Minister Maric, but I am on his side in this regard. You know why? Because the minister was three months ago when he was in first rebalancing, when he was paying his debts, he said we'd never see each other again this year, I guess that's how it was, right? The minister believed that part was under control, right? It happens to us three or four months later that here again the minister has to defend the increase of the expenditure side of the rebalancing, except for health care, is that there is no one else on the other side that he here today is raving to be attacked around the expenditure, is there, and there are no those who said that these expenditures will be kept under control when the system comes out... that it's all going to be, etc., etc. And it's actually being set up today... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] that today what the minister actually said three or four months ago is simply today we see that the Ministry of Finance has no control over the costs of the health system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that through this debate itself, and given that the situation, the minister himself said today, 38 billion kuna, that it was shown that this experiment of leaving HZZO from the treasury today proved to me that it showed no effect, we need to talk seriously on behalf of the clubs and on behalf of the individual debate whether we are going to return those controls to the treasurer's system or to give a certain, certain period of a year and if that doesn't show that it is coming back. Is what's going on here today? Are we bringing the minister into an awkward situation that he has to defend something, and he still doesn't know if what they're giving him out of health care is so much, he trusts those numbers. So maybe we need to open up these specific questions, too, I know I won't be now, being a favorite on the side of those who defend the health system, but here I have to be in defense of the finance minister, right? Do I know he's here defending the rebalancing, he's defending the budget, and he's actually responsible here for certain expenses, and there's no one else here, right? And it works, not just for the sake of collegiation but also common sense, I think it would be a good idea for us to open up the question in the next kind of debate, that if this health care system that is already 38 billion kuna is back in the treasurery system, and in such a way we get at least certain control of a certain expenditure side of the budget, and that, in fact, in that part of the next period, this experiment that has proved to be, in fact, that, yes, that unfortunately, it has failed to get a variety of presentations about how it's going to work, how great it's going to be, how it's going to be, just now it's showing that we don't have any control, right now, are we talking about an additional 6 billion within a few months. It's serious months, right, 6 billion kuna. First it was HZZO, so the transfer to this, the transfer to this, today, Minister... Well, that's billions, right, that's billions of dollars in a few months, and we don't know, and that's what the minister said, that's not all yet, that's probably still a couple of 3-4 billion kunas that actually earned debts, etc. Yeah. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that since we are entering the euro, and that the European Course Mechanism, I told you personally that I support it because I think it is good for the Croatian economy and for the Croatian economy for several reasons. I think it's good that in that part of the control of the expenditure side of the budget you'll probably see that next year will also be challenging this one to, yes, and... These expenditures are kept under control so that it could also be the return of HZZO to the treasure if it turns out that, that this one, that it is this dramaticly jumping from month to month, is it? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's a warning to all of us and I think it's a debate in the assembly and that we certainly have to talk about it, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68473	We have two replicas, three. The first is a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68474	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Lalovac, I liked it very much when you showed understanding for the Minister of Finance because it is one thing to belong to certain policies and everything else, but the other thing is, you know very well what it means to wear the Minister of Finance's shoes and you're guilty of everything, and you're actually defending some things that are very difficult to defend, and that's why it's common in the budget to be representatives of all other resistors for the simple reason to hear certain things. We here are in charge of our discussions on health care and the main debate is on the health issue. This crown has only shown the extent of this damage, which is neither from the 10th-year-old government, which was 10 years ago, not before 5, not before 15, but has been continuous. And what you pointed out, and it should once again be pointed out by Minister Maric, he doesn't really know how much the health debt is, whether the next 5 billion or 10 billion But what he knows, he knows he's coming. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68475	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68476	Thank you very much. Yeah, that's why I said what the minister said we won't see each other until the end of the year, so here we are again for 3 months, and we're actually talking about huge amounts in the health system, and we're all aware that the covid and that human health is definitely necessary and that these are priorities, but I'm telling you this spiral that happened in the health care system now that we here and in the debate know how much it is and if the Minister of Finance doesn't know how much it really is, how much of it is in health but it has to get some list of this fellow, etc. that it doesn't actually pour any trust on some foreign institutions, and I say we enter the euro, that we keep total expenditure under control, and I think now is the time for this debate to open up in this debate to no one by blaming them, so I don't blame the Minister of Health for not blaming it simply, not, but simply because of the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of the control to get it back under the supervision of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68477	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68478	Well, here's my colleague, Lalovec, I'm glad you're critical in some way towards the period and that when you've been eating in power and at all according to that concept that health and health systems are seen as cost and that the patient is seen as cost and that the health system is seen as problematic because it generates losses, and it's so formatted that it generates losses because it's not even intended as a system that should be profitable and it must never become. At that moment when he becomes profitable, we will no longer have for all health care. And that's why I'm asking you a question, how do you solve it means the situation where the wholesalers are placed in the blackmailer position at the moment when it's the hardest and we have the biggest pandemic since World War I and they're threatening not to deliver drugs if we should actually pay attention? the length and height of the debt or the restructuring and other way of getting the medicine? [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68479	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68480	Thank you very much. I agree with you, especially the health care system and it will never and will never be profitable, it's not a profit center, is it? But what matters is that the minister is here what he said today the health system is spending 38 billion. Do you know how much to collect? Minister, how much do you collect through health contributions? 23 billion. 23 billion raises, spends 38 bucks. Now I'm asking you, so we're not talking about profitable, so we're talking about closing a hole in the health system. You know where he's filling it from? From VAT. The VAT is 56 billion kuna, ever, ever larger. And so those pressures that go to a VAT reduction, to reduce VAT for certain items simply give the minister so much opportunity if he has to defend the health system must leave him if you look at 56 billion, he has that difference whether part of the VAT has to ic for pensions is there a hole of 20 billion, but already in the health system that hole has spread, is it? And that's why we're not talking about the profitable part of health but that part of sustainability, the minimum sustainability so that the health system doesn't crack.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68481	The next replica honours MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68482	Dear fellow Lalovac, we all remember the theatre performance at the Health Committee when Minister Maric Minister Beroshu said so categorically that he would no longer rag his hole in health and that it was time for reforms, and Minister Beroš claimed that the reform was already on the table of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and today you claim that in this proposal, the new budget is not therefore planned to spend as much as it should and we can expect very quickly the first rebalancing but because of the health itself. Now you are saying that it is not Minister Maric who is responsible, but if you defend Minister Maric, does this mean that Minister Beros is responsible because Minister Maric is very consciously planning an insufficient level of expenditure that will not cover all needs in health care, and on the other hand, we all know that health reform cannot be implemented within a year at that speed that it is not necessary to plan these expenditures at the level of today's health expenditures. Explain to me whose responsibility, then, Minister Beros or Minister Maric, one must be responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68483	Thank you very much. I said it today and actually said the responsibility of Minister Berosa is while HZZO is not under the authority or until it's in the treasury system, and he's not in the treasurery system, do you know that the extra budget fund is and that the minister actually gets that part of the money that he's actually asking for, he actually, the wishes are unlimited, yes. He can draw up a budget as much as he can by projection of the income he can make. However, here is the problem that this system of treasury that is, the HZZO system that came out of the treasury that said it would generate, that it would generate savings, is now happening that after two months, the minister comes out again with the story that he does not know or again says that he needs an additional two billion, or today a billion and 600 etc. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about is that simply because the time has come now, it's already matured to see that the health care system still cannot manage the entire system to get that part back under the control of the finance minister. It's my own personal, personal opinion, isn't it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68484	Thank you. Next individual debate, the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68485	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I've been listening through two committees about what happens to profit tax, what happens to VAT, so I'd just come back for a little while when we've been making some legal changes, and it's about the executions this year. Namely, we know that we have been taxed on profit since January 1st, 2021. Changed the rate, the tax rate from 12 to 10% for entrepreneurs who have traffic up to 7.5 million kuna, so from there should pull the parallel that then the income tax advances are less in this period of 2021 and that then half-year execution, and this is also now reflecting on this rebalance that, consequently, are lower revenues. The value added tax, income tax, as you know, has also changed rates from 36 to 30 and 24 to 20 and this has been reflected in the revenues of the JLS which again covers from the state budget that difference. Since 1 July 2021, VAT has been amended, and VAT has been paid for all goods of small value and we know that at this time, the pandemic era has seen a significant increase in traffic and the purchase of various goods via the Internet and in this way the VAT has actually increased its effect and we see in the execution that it is larger, significantly greater than what is planned. Therefore, I would like to point out that it is very important and that we forget very often when we talk about this rebalancing of what we did and what decisions we made at the end of last year, and they reflect on the budget and that is something that has consequences in the half-year execution, and also in this rebalancing that we are talking about now. When we talk about the health care itself, then on behalf of the club, I said what it was, that it was an increase from the beginning of the year over 6.4 billion kuna. Let's remember that in the first term, it was 1.6 billion for HZZO and 2.7 for HZZO, and 1.6 was for reconciliation, drug separation and auxiliary sanity material. So, there was already a tendency huge and then it was thought that, in fact, the whole coverage was, was reflected to the end. What we now see is that it is further as beautiful and shown in the analysis that, with the transfer of HZZO of 700 million kunas, more than 736 million kunas for recovery of debt hospitals have been increased. So we still don't know, it's an additional billion 9i 300-400 plus for overtime in health care. What we still have to say is that in this period it is very significant, and these are the support for the preservation of jobs. When we talk about making the same contribution for, out of wages, then we have to say that we have the fact that there are salaries, some wages, and that surely those contributions that were expected in this realization are much less, given that the support as you know 4,000 kuna per employee, so there were certainly fewer salaries compared to those they were in the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68486	We have one replica, respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68487	Here, thank you for your presentation because you gave me some introduction to ask and question and to consolidate what is often repeated here in this assembly, and it needs to be demasked that we have too many taxes. So our taxes are really on average Europe, we don't have too high taxes. We have a really low capital tax, and VAT is too high because of what affects everything. It's a regressive tax, so it hits an ordinary man, but so these tax reforms that you've mentioned are usually going and usually go for the decommissioning of the richest ones. So you also mentioned reducing the profit tax rate which is one of the lowest in Europe and reducing the income tax rate and that for the most, means the richest, those who have more than 30,000 kunas grossly reduced the income tax, and for those with the lowest wages almost nothing felt on those salaries, a couple hundred kunas got people. It means they're ours. taxes are not too high, but they're really too low in tax capital. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68488	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68489	That's right, there's a Eurostat analysis of how much there is, how much tax burden there is in other countries. So when we look at Germany and they're somewhere 37 to 40% is a burden, so we're not too overly compared to them. By saying that when you talk about the richest getting rid of each other, so these up to 7.5 million kuna, if they're the richest, they're really small entrepreneurs, and I think they made a significant drop in profit tax from 12 to 10%. What, as far as VAT itself is concerned, that it is the second largest, po, with Hungary we are actually the largest, we have the highest rate, but then there is again to look at and see what is being financed from it and how to balance it or eventually reduce it [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68490	Next individual debate, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68491	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here, these changes and additions to the budget, the state budget and the financial plans of extra- budget users predict real GDP growth of 9% this year. The main driver of growth in this year is exports of goods and services, and a strong contribution to growth will come from personal consumption. Croatia has a large export service dominated by tourism at 70%. Croatia is one of the EU countries most dependent on tourism, thus tourism is one of the most important economic branches. The pandemic also showed the vulnerability of the tourism sector and the need to strengthen its resilience and to develop more sustainable forms of tourism, and in this year we also showed that success was beyond our expectations. Since the beginning of the year, we have achieved 13.1 million arrivals and 82.3 million overnight stays, which is 74% more arrivals and 54% more overnights than in the same period last year. If compared to a record 2019. There are even some parameters by which we were even better than that record in 2019, so the value of fiscalised accounts in tourist activities is even 21% higher in August, and it is also higher in September and so on, which means that we hit with balanced measures. However, what saddens me is that tourism has also done for this GDP and budget to see that the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has a reduced amount of 500,000 kuna, respectively, less than originally envisaged. So here's my appeal that when it's like this this year that next year you don't really forget tourism, if you won't give more funding then to encourage the development of a variety of sustainable tourism. As I said, a strong contribution to GDP growth is also given by increased personal consumption. There are as many as 17 billion kunas of government behind workers and entrepreneurs, which directly saved 700,000 jobs, which is basically almost every other job and stabilised the business of 120,000 employers. So now we can say that for 51,000 we have more employees than last year and that figure has reached a million and 600 employees, of course most, the largest number was in August. And that's behind the record in 2008, the second largest, largest number of independence. The unemployment rate is like that five years ago. It was 13.3% to be only 7.3% in August this year. Of course, the active employment policy that's in 5. In which 5.5 billion kuna was invested, it also included 165,000 people. Then we have those fewer programs that were already referred to as the “Walks” programme, which employs 14,000 women and thus provides help in the house for 79,000 older people. We also see an increase in these items, so we expect these support to preserve jobs that will bring a new increase in personal spending, as well as pensions and pensions in which 806 million are additionally invested, for these aids 608 million and employee expenditures also rise by 929 million in the light of legal obligations. When it comes to total planned revenues, we see that from taxes and contributions we will be incomeing 2.2 billion kuna in this year, even from VAT over 2.5 billion kuna. As counterpart Peric has already stated, not because of the increase in any tax, however, what the previous government in 5 circles has reduced taxes to citizens and the economy, and has charged them 10 billion kuna. Since this summer, there are also 150,000 young people who have also received a refund on the income tax of around 700 million kuna, and this is the result of a tax exemption measure for young employees. To sum up, despite all the challenges we face and the stormy times we are going through, the government has shown that it stands firm and that our citizens do not have to be concerned despite the economic crisis and the pandemic Covid-19 that has affected the whole world [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68492	Replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68493	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said it was even nice to actually hear a little and too hard not to care enough about tourism, and I would now refer to you as a health tourism person. There's also quite a cut in funds, a decrease from 885,000 kuna to only 259.000 kuna, so 29%, the half-year execution was 21.45%, so here's this time at the appeal to the government that, with all this talking about how we have the potential for health tourism, we've really been talking about it for years, and here we've been talking about, we can't start from this low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68494	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. Well, I would like to repeat it again, and I would like tourism to be the one that, given its contribution to GDP growth, gets something more, and so the development of health tourism, but as far as health care is concerned, we know that the additional funds for the rehabilitation of institutions are 735.9 million kuna, additional funds for paying the pay gap for overtime are provided to 64.1 million kuna, an increase in the transfer of HZZO of 700 million kuna and so on. So the health care got it and it was supposed to get the most, but here's the appeal again from this pay phone to help tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68495	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68496	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, a little less than a year ago that we've brought a budget for 2021, we're discussing the rebalancing of that same document another time today. We remember that time and the atmosphere in which the budget was brought, let's remember what it was then. So we had about 300 amendments, an opposition that gathered everything on Mark's square on the far left, on the far right, everything that could be gathered because their amendments were not adopted and that even though several were adopted and that they did not want to participate in the adoption of the document. And then finally, before the vote, they sent the lady to say that this budget does not bear the future of the Republic of Croatia and the budget was voted then with 76 votes. Today, with a year away, we see that the future of Croatia is there and that we can continue to think about it and that some moments have changed over the year, we have improved in 6 months compared to what we had at the 11th month last year and we are doing it today. Why? So I think because we live in a real time where it's hard to predict all possible events. The pandemic makes us somewhat weaker in the sense that we can say exactly what can wait for us from the beginning until the end of the financial year. We hear today many local budgets and regions that change two or three times because it is not easy and at much smaller amounts. We heard 11,000 items here. And now why are we listening again today that this isn't good? Because all the numbers are positive, when we hear from our colleagues in the opposition. There's almost no number that's negative. And how do you answer that? It's not good because it's being wasted. What's the government's task of income, that's what happened if you listened well, that government has no influence whatsoever, and the expenditures didn't happen to them, the government just let them happen. And it's not like that, as the tourist season wasn't like that because some say it happened on its own because everyone else was bad, it's not like that. So today we can still estimate from the last year where someone from whom the position has been looking. Here I also thank my colleague, Lalovac, who looked at it quite realisticly, on the part of the former minister, and it is again one different angle than many others who may not have had the opportunity to agree perhaps even the local budget. And today we watch what happens in a few days, we'll generally have the same, similar, or situation. And we're going to listen to those who here on a daily basis, speak freely and say we don't need planes, we don't need planes, these are the ones that have good ones. We say we want new ones, we want better things to cost, and that's what you plan for. Teachers and teachers need to be paid more, when you add a billion almost a billion means 928 million kuna for these salaries, they say we will be against that document that provides it because we are for them, we are for their sake. Also for pensioners 673 million. That's what I'm telling you, they go to your expense because you just can't plan, we can plan. But this is happening today in a health care system where we have daily stories about how infected they are, how unfortunately people are on the respirator, how many died and we run away from it and any responsibility other than the government that has to stand behind it, behind the citizens, behind the health. It's costing, we heard 40 billion. So I asked the minister today, which would be that we don't have that 40 billion with all these other things that we have and an increase in wages and all other donations, indexation of pensions, social rights, etc. They'd probably be discussing in a different direction, some surplus, some government ability. Let's take a look at that spinning pin today. Is the minister successful or unsuccessful? If you projected a growth of 5.2 and you get a 9, nothing is up to the government saying, it's all about the opposition. There was one representative who said when he saw this situation quake, an epidemic that was best put a finger in his ear, a sitting under the tree and watching what the government and the prime minister were doing. He's here. He's sitting with us. That's it, you stop and you're responsible, you want to contribute, you take care of the citizens and you make sure that every invoice is paid, everyone works with the state and wants to work with the state. Why? Because the state pays for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68497	Replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68498	Dear colleague Boric, that's exactly what the government did. That's what the problem is. She sat under the beech, sat there and waited and watched what would happen. The earthquake hasn't been done in a year and a half. 90 million kunas have been spent, and as for the European funds that you could withdraw for the earthquake, it is not withdrawn that I found inside the budget over 300 million. As far as health care is concerned, I have to admit it's hard to say that you've been doing something other than sitting around waiting for what's about to happen. So I agree with you about sitting under a beech, but the government was sitting under a beech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68499	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68500	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, colleague Brumnic, that you were the one who recognized yourself in this debate probably in the part where I was talking about what happened no, so that's how it is. I remember the government and the experts who told us when we were down in the GDP 12th quarter and started to get up a little bit, so the drop was slightly smaller than the one before, and then they said that it was also a fall. could be growth. And we had to admire it, with our pay cut, with everything that was there. If he told someone he was sitting under a beech and didn't do anything, they'd get angry. We also see today how some who led the country at that time talked in a different way than is discussed today in other functions. It caught up with them from that time. So is this story of yours. So I think if someone is sitting, then you might say that to you. But you're the one who kicked one of your colleagues out of the party because he told you to write me three sentences from the SDP fight strategy, say against the Covid pandemic. They, you kicked him out. from the client. [[Intruder: Time.]] You understand, that's what you've been doing. And yet this government to me He does his job and he does what he can. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68501	Next individual debate, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68502	Dear Mr Vice President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is the second budget rebalancing in this year 2021, and what we can conclude is that it is being implemented in the year in which Croatia is going through an unprecedented crisis, primarily a health crisis, and then the consequences of the economic crisis, and all together as a consequence clearly have a lack of funds, above all, in the state budget. We heard on several occasions, and today the minister said that the crisis, Covid's crisis had its reflection in the budget in a way that during the 21st month around 40 billion kuna, there was a lack of budget funds or a basis for reduced revenue or, on the other hand, increased expenditure on a number of support provided to the economy to preserve the jobs of entrepreneurs' liquidity and even business activities of Croatian businessmen from somewhere around 18 billion kuna that were passed on to preserve jobs of 700,000 workers. This was a good measure because, thanks to this measure, practically in the first year after the 8.4 crash of GDP, we expect GDP growth to be around 9% in this budget, according to this budget. And more to praise is the fact that 4.5% of GDP growth is planned for next year. If that crisis that took us 12, 13 years to get back to a pre-crisis period of this kind of government, this kind of treatment in a different crisis, but in any case not less demanding and more challenging, we'll practically be back in a year. However, what should be said, therefore, in this planned growth of GDP, there is a significant increase in revenues in the Republic of Croatia's budget, but what is not good is the fact that we are growing and spending. A short time ago, Lalovac spoke about the increase in the cost of spending in health positions where, as planned in the health budget, it will set aside some 11 billion kunas and then raise the question of where we heard it before, who is responsible, who is responsible for it, because we have to achieve record separations in addition to those of the institutions that are at an annual level of around 24 billion and another 11 billion from the state budget and the other 3 billion that go according to special regulations. And then there's the question of who's responsible for it. I know that for years the government, whose government it is, has been going through a four-year term with at least two resolutions, two resolutions. The first one there in the second year, and the second one in four years before the election. And that's what we are, that's what we've always witnessed. And whenever the Minister of Health comes here to the Croatian Parliament, regardless again, regardless of which political options come from, they tell us that according to Eurostat data, there is much, much more to be said at EU level for health care than it stands out for Croatia. Until before the crisis in Croatia itself, around EUR 960 was allocated to health care up to EUR 1,000 per capita. According to this data we now have it will be around a million and 300, 1,300 euro per capita is allocated for health care in Croatia. In this pre-crisis period, for example, 1,200 EUR per capita was allocated in Slovenia. Therefore, when we talk about what the responsibility of the Minister of Health is to know that we expect, we expect from the healthcare system a top service, so this top service is something and costs more than it costs some inappropriate service that countries such as Croatia should not afford. Therefore, in the year when health care requires more because the huge costs in the fight against Covid I find an excuse for such a position, which does not mean that health care should not go into reform. You need to go into reform and do an even better service for the kuna from the funds it receives from Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68503	One replica, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68504	Thank you very much. We see to our colleague Bačić that the energy has been collected, and as the energy gathers, we see that the recession time is somehow approaching. I would only ask one question, based on Eve Sanader, that corrupt criminal contract with INA and MOL has been proven to have been handed over to MOL. Energy is now too expensive, the government announced three years ago that it would buy INU, I don't see in the budget, not rebalancing here. I am interested in the state's attorney's statement that as far as the verdict is concerned, we have a ruling from the Supreme Court, whether the government will do something about breaking the contract between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the MOL. It's a key issue because energy is important to us and the government itself announced INE 3 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68505	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68506	As regards the status of INE and the percentage owned by the Republic of Croatia and MOL, I believe that the Republic of Croatia has the possibility to improve Croatia's status in this arbitration and otherwise to the MOL, I believe that the state's attorney, as an independent judicial body in Croatia, should make a decision, stand behind that decision and initiate the procedure in order to bring the Supreme Court of Justice's ruling as one of the largest and second co-owners of the size in MOL, both of the status and any other benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68507	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68508	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, and exactly the state's attorney says the government is awaiting and the government's decision is based on the verdict because it was an arbitration but we didn't have a final verdict at the time. Now we have a powerful verdict and Sanader has received meanings between, which he signed with Hernadi. So we now have the basis that the criminal contract INA is in the hands of the Hungarians. And I expect the Minister as a representative of the government to point out this very important matter to us, the INA is important to us. Energy accumulates, energy is expensive. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68509	This is your third warning you've lost the right words to the end of the debate on this point. The next replica of Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68510	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister Bačić, when we look at this budget rebalancing, and in the past rebalancing is for overtime in health care, the health care is set at 200 million kuna, it is now increased by another 65 million kuna, I would like to remind you and all of us sitting here that it is a debt that brings back the Croatian government and has found the funds, and that it comes from the time of the rule of another government. This debt was not created by this government, but rather by the government, and it should also be recognised in the budget that 200 million were secured and another 65 million would be provided for all of them. That's all I wanted to remind you of. [[/Employee: Please allow MPs, allow MPs to complete the questions, please.]] That the government has found another 65 million despite the health crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68511	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68512	I thank my colleagues, Grba Bujević, and I said in my introduction that we in Croatia want the highest possible health care service and that health care costs. According to what, you know it better than I and in other countries are annually in health positions given new technologies, new medicines, a new way of treatment increases costs 10 percent a year. But what should be done on the other hand, should be done all for what the Croatians single out, you can see by this budget about 1,300 EUR per year for all, for health care must get the best service. And in that sense, you need to go to health care reform that will provide the best possible service for what citizens.../incomprehensible/... will do. And what you said, I agree, no matter what government did, to people who had overtime should be paid off and funds should be found in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68513	Next individual debate, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68514	President, fellow MPs and MPs, do you know that in all, 17 ministers plus the prime minister have only 16 years of staff outside the state apparatus. Therefore, data on the prime minister's and his ministers' working hours are seen from a résumé published on the government's official website. So, we know that Minister Zdravko Maric here worked in Agrokor, except for him, Darko Horvat spent 4 years as a member of the management of a company and Aladrovic worked in one insurance house. By the way, no one at all. In the résumé of Josip Boric and Branko Bačić, who spoke before me, I was scared and peeked. And it would not have gone into this tone at all and the way the debate had been held if Josip Boric had not looked at the amendments submitted in the opposition, which the ruling in turn refused, and then we left the assembly out of the protest. And even worse, what you've really pissed me off with is that of your dirty talk to the Croatian public in which you say, so here it is. Well, to be spent, the budget is spent, but on the other hand, it's somebody's budget full. And that someone who fills the budget is certainly not you with your work in the real sector, nor are you filling that budget with your denials and tightening your belts in these difficult and burdensome times. So we opposition MPs, as well as Croatian citizens, have the right to ask questions about how and what their money is spent on. The asset is obviously a lot, but the effect is small, and the control doesn't really exist at all. And it turns out that we as a state are no match for the tasks and challenges ahead of us. This especially showed that part of the debate that was dedicated to the state of health as one of the greatest losers. If we want to become a rational, well-organised state which is responsible for managing and using taxpayers in one productive way, then we need to establish a system of control that I have often talked about in the context of anti-corruption measures and programmes. And I would really like to see that at least in that number of cases how often the word digitisation is used in strategic national documents, starting with the National Development Strategy, so the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and a number of others, so in that number of examples how many of you in HDZ's designed and empty strategies used the word digitisation, so make that digitisation in a way that you make public budgets available in one, one publicly searched format in a way that shows data on all payments and payments. The expenditure side of our budget is so intransparent that there is actually no transparency in it. And why is she important? So not just because of this expenditure party to see what money goes to, where it actually leaks and if it had any purpose of these spendings, but to see and how the state is coming in. So, you should not be asked by your colleague Bulj for what happened to the verdict, the final verdict against Eve Sanader, we could see whether or not they were or whether they would ever be charged those huge millions of euros that were the fruit of corrupt activity and many others. Perhaps if you were to introduce the kuna into fiscal transparency, we could see how and why it came, for example, that the HBOR has about 3 billion unpaid credit claims or debt from loans and a whole series of others. So these are taxpayers' funds, this is something that someone has invested in state money, and in fact the story is that a number of public budgets have been used to spend them for their own purposes and in line with those interests of some of the political structures behind them. We'll talk more about it on our last agenda today. When we talk about this transparency that the ruling claim has, and I say it's gone, all corruption is hidden in that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68515	We have two replicas, the first one is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68516	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Oreshković, you spoke well of the transparency of the budget and transparency of the availability of public money and in fact we already have a series of examples in Croatia, so we have transparent local budgets many, but we do not have a transparent state budget. Don't you see here, in fact, the irony of whether it should move from top to bottom, not from bottom up. The other thing is when you talk about the strategy we recently discussed here on preventing corruption, it is necessary to talk about strengthening institutions. In fact, the report in the European Commission's report tells us that DORH is humanely sub-suppressed, that there is simply no infrastructure to do its job, these are financial expenditures. We're talking about strengthening or marginalising, say, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which you've been led by one of the calls, we're talking about marginalising the Commissioner for Information, so these are also some small funds that should be included in the budget, which should be a very helpful fight against corruption. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68517	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68518	Two things, a proposal full of fiscal transparency at the state level and at the level of all state bodies, I have included in my own draft anti-corruption strategy, which I handed over to HS long ago in 2019, of course, that such a plan is never intended to implement. And as for sub-capacitation of state institutions, here I would call this budget a imbalance because for example we will see that one state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has 55 employees, who want to welcome everyone who wishes to return, and a complete USKOK that has the area of competence of the entire Republic has only 33 judicial employees. So much for fighting corruption, in such a system of fighting corruption, it simply doesn't exist because there's no one to implement it without saying that we are sloppy and hollow and all the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68519	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68520	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Oreshkovic, there is no help. You and I participated as a few other MPs recently until the late evening hours because we received that porn term on one proposal and the addition of one law that was an opposition proposal and there is no way if the opposition proposal to pass the opposition in this assembly regardless of what perhaps after six months or a year the same proposal will be given by the ruling and will pass. There are those of us who remember for a little while longer, and the characteristics of the MPs are otherwise selective memories, everyone remembers the part that suits him. So I remember when the amendment was therefore proposed to the budget that was rejected. The government changed, another government came, and now there were the same proposals from a parliamentary representative who was then the opposition, who had written all these proposals that had been one parliamentary representative before and what had happened? They were also rejected, both before and now. Therefore I mean, if things like that don't change, there's no going back. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68521	Yeah, there's one. Namely, thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash, for describing two symptoms of Croatian political reality, and the first one is that from the ranks of the largest and current ruling political parties none of their parliamentary representatives thinks at all, that is important, the only thing their party boss wants at that time, so they will be dense to observe that all those who have opposed the proposals of the opposition in half a year or when it comes to the agenda with the same jurisprudence with which they opposed our own boss's proposal will be identical to that of their own boss and defend them. But this shows another major problem, which is that such a cartel corrupt political party is experiencing the state by the state system, it's me in character and the work of their party boss, and that's the problem of the state that in 30 years. We do not have built institutions that serve their citizens but serve the largest political parties and party elites.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68522	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68523	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking about this budget rebalancing is difficult not to talk about, and in the context of not mentioning the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, the two counties of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorska after the earthquake, and then the entire area of Banovina and Banovina. We in opposition point to the fact that there is no renewal. Not because we're evil, not because we're evil, not because here we want to point out that there isn't, but because I would, I'd like to, and I've said 100 times I'm going to go out for a pay phone and tell my people that my people started rebuilding, it's work, we're going to help the citizens of the Republic, but you're not helping me to have the chance to say it. Minister Horvat has told us several times from this pay phone, that we have no idea, that we do not know how to read the law, that we do not understand that the renewal is but we have not seen it and we do not know it and then Minister Maric comes with his figures that show everything. The figures in this budget rebalancing where it is invented, I ask you what the Reconstruction Fund is for, for someone to get a job, for someone to be a chronicler of the course of events that are not available in the recovery, so in this rebalancing fund, funds are taken and converted into health funds. So the numbers say everything. The numbers show a real condition. I'd like to, I'd really like some next year when there's going to be some rebalancing or something again because this budget for 2020 won't see that anything has really changed. Otherwise, the budget or budget rebalancing is not the number we are discussing, people are behind it. People who charge the budget to share the population of this country have their salaries. If there are no people there won't be a budget filling, and then there won't be any, any activities and everything else. So we have to have people and we have to have people who work. And these are the cancer wounds of this Croatia at the moment. People who leave Croatia work elsewhere because they're better off there. So, the less, the more people go, the less it stays there, the less we do have an older population and some of the next minister will sit there for a while and say that actually the whole country has gone where you shouldn't go. Somewhere a year ago, after this pay phone, or even before the adoption of the Law on Reconstruction, I cried and prayed, and I said, "Go to recovery because there will be a labour problem, there will be a problem with the price of construction material, there will be a problem when you put everything together, the works will be done, the construction material will be too expensive and there will be no one to work. That it's all complicated administratively, and it's not, the renovation won't have anyone working. Who's going to do the renovation? Prices have gone to heaven. Imagine if we had a year of work, so I'm not going to say any big news and some big sensation, construction is the first thing that when the crisis comes, and this one goes down, construction is the first thing that feels like we're out of the crisis. Now, after a year, we have a situation of double-priced construction material. After a year, we have a situation that with a candle, you can't find any builders, and I don't want to hurt anyone else, we can't get there. Imagine what the revenue side of this budget would look like if the renovation lasted a year. So, not that you've been doing all that and getting ready together, so that the renovation started there in the summer of last year, I'm talking about Zagreb and this part of the county. What would the revenue side look like in terms of more VAT charge and everything else? Who's to blame, and someone's got to be guilty of people not being able to use their real estate, but who's to blame for making it impossible to charge the budget? Minister Marić sits here neatly and listens to all our discussions where we actually point to a number of other resors. The renewal that is not there, the debate that has gone and is talking about it and the minister who shows it is one of the greatest The shame of this government and this country. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68524	Replica, the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68525	Thank you, dear vice president of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mrs. Taritash, it's really embarrassing that 237 million kuna actually disappeared because that item no longer exists in the Department of Construction class that was intended to be restored. But you tell me where you see the problem, so you can speed up this process yourself, what are your ideas in this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68526	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68527	I can, yeah, I didn't hear you, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your question. So, first of all, you need to know something. Second, you need to set a goal, and third, you need to have the strength and energy to do something. Of all the three things I've told you, I don't see anything here. So just to compare, I'll just tell you one thing so you understand what we're talking about. We had in the construction inspection law that a construction inspection could act in the case of then there was municipal redaction, in the case of ruins. No, and that's what the mayor of Vukovar warned me about, who said there's no restoration of Vukovar, we have to tear down buildings whose owners we don't know or are somewhere else, that's what we had in law. When it decided to do the State Inspectorate Act, that provision was unquestionably missing, I warned. See wonders she returns now that she is almost 2 years from the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. My men, it's all been. It doesn't help us when someone doesn't pick up where the predecessor left off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68528	The next replica, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68529	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, you have made a good point and pointed out all the reasons why the restoration has become a complete deception. But other than these aspects you mentioned, there is another problem, which is the restoration of public buildings. So everything that the rulings have pointed out as problems, and in terms of rebuilding our citizens' houses and homes, cannot be applied to properties in which, for example, it was police administration, courts, judiciary and similar buildings for public purposes. None of them have been set up yet, for the restoration should primarily have a plan and a vision of how the restoration will take place. All of this will lead to the obligation to return the funds from the EU to the Republic of Croatia. How do you comment on this case?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68530	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68531	Thank you very much. So, when I was answering my colleagues, Hidash Doncic, then I was only talking about this one, one subject. The second topic was to distinguish the restoration of family homes, the restoration of multi-state buildings, and the restoration of public purpose buildings. For the restoration of buildings of public purpose should not have been this, it should not have waited for this law, without this law the restoration of public purpose could be implemented. What we see is that the reduction in certain items does not have any ministry that does not have a reduction in the refurbishment-related item shows the fact that the state does not renew its own. So whether it's a state, a central state or anything else, isn't it a property topic, isn't it a topic given by a building is legal or illegal, is it a theme that more co-owners, so we need to have an agreement of co-owners, we don't even have to have an e-mail, we should conduct a public tender and start spending money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68532	Next replica respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68533	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Mrak-Taritash, if you had just said this last, were we supposed to have a difference in the restoration of Zagreb, in the restoration of the suburban area, in the restoration of the rural area, these are now other stories, but what is now important in the rebalancing is that numbers do not lie. The numbers do not lie in the sense that even the kuna is not spent on reconstruction because there is no renewal and that at the same time we do not withdraw money from the EU that we have received and that is at our disposal. For a year now, 7 months or 8 about the earthquake in Zagreb, or 11 months about the earthquake in Banja. I wonder how many more budgets it takes to start rebuilding because, as you say, we should have started working a long time ago, people living unconditionally, people even lost their right to food, so those who live in unconditional containers that leak and release moisture and certainly different, the state is not able to take care of them, is unable to start rebuilding, let alone finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68534	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68535	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, once when the prime minister was in the assembly, asked him if he was creating from the Banovina containerland area, he took a terrible offense to it, and it was absolutely as he had already resented it. I said then if you don't go, those people will in those containers, the container is the space where you solve some problem and you solve this problem and you can put people for 3 months, 6 months, but for years they live, it's absolutely not a topic, it's not supposed to, it's not supposed to live. These people in the Banovina area are already the second winter there. But I have to answer one thing, I often wonder why that is. I don't think, otherwise, that by rebuilding Zagreb and these two counties, no one thought to do anything, but then unfortunately there was an earthquake in Banovina and Banovina, and yet it turned out that someone had to be in the process of rebuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68536	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68537	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I'm going to step away from the topic, and in fact you've offered me these statements where you've said that people are actually leaving because of the unhappiness or the unhappiness when we're talking about rebuilding and losing workers, and I think that today in this debate we're actually talking about the pension system. We have some projections and some announcements will give us about 44 billion kuna in the next pension budget, which is almost 25% of the budget. We have at this time 1.29 workers on a pensioner, and we have the first county of Sisak-Moslavina where we have fewer workers than the pensioners, and the system is also unsustainable even before the break, so here I am curious how you comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68538	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68539	Thank you very much, colleague Lerotić, for your question. So, I think the point is when you're discussing the budget and you're going to be discussing who's going to fill that budget. So those numbers, we can write a number, paper suffers anything, who will fill it. I must say, I often remember there in 2014, there was a big meeting where Chancellor Merkel was and who turned to where the delegations from Croatia were and then she turned around and wondered what you were doing so that we didn't take all your workers away from you, if we took you away, you're an EU member, we'll offer salaries that you couldn't offer, you trained them neatly, you invested in their education and everything else that you do in Croatia to stop it, what you're doing now. We looked at ourselves then, the answer of course no one could give, I often remember that because the question is the same today, the years have passed, and the same question is today, which is inadmissible. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68540	The last replica, the respected representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68541	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dark-Taritash. I called in the last second because you basically made a summary of your debate. Minister Maric, I don't know if he's here. He's gone. He's gone. The only reform we have to be honest is the reform of public finances, the rest for the cure. So I absolutely congratulate him on what he did, the rest for the cure. For example, what does Minister Horvat do? After nearly ruining the Croatian economy for the prize, the Ministry of Construction won the prize to run the job for 10 years, so imagine where the government's human resources policy is going, so it's just amazing, along with another hero you didn't mention, Mrs. Dark-Taritash, which is Mr. Vangelic, who proudly paints himself with a shovel and does nothing. A colleague, Maric, came forward and just to congratulate him on the public finances tax, and the rest are of course other ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68542	This is the country where I live, this is the country where my children live and they have no intention of going to live elsewhere and when this country is in any way embarrassed whether or not the political option that is acceptable to me is also an embarrassment to me. I don't have a problem when I'm ashamed of something I did or someone, but I always have a problem when I have to be ashamed of someone else. I work every 22nd of the month for a press conference where I warn of the fact that in Zagreb it was not made because the 22nd was an earthquake. I also often mention Minister Horvat and Mr Vandjelic, so if the idea of setting up a fund was whether Mr Vangelic had a job or was to create a person who was to go as mayor of Zagreb, so that the budget of the Republic of Croatia could have been cheaper, he could have been a consultant in some ministry or prime minister. This is how we have an employee. Mr. Vangelic as a chronicler of indemnity. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68543	The next individual debate was respected by MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68544	Dear Minister Maric with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The budget rebalance shows a hole of nearly 20 billion kuna. When the government planned a budget for 2021. It started with 10.7 billion kuna minus, then in June of this year it rebalanced the budget and complemented the minus with another 6.4 billion, the total amount then amounted to 17.1 billion kuna. After four months today, this minus increases by another 2.6 billion, and now I am not talking to you colleagues and colleagues, nor to you, Minister Maric, but I am talking to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the minus in the state budget is 19 billion and 700 million kuna, and I know that these billions are inconclusive amounts to you, an unfathomable concept, but here's an explanation. In 10 months this year, the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Andrej Plenkovic generates a minus in the nine billion kuna budget, which would be 900 million kuna per month. So, out of the pockets of citizens governments because of the unimplemented reform, or because of the unhappiness, draws 900 million kuna or 125,000 average salaries each month, and the average salary is 7,200 kuna, let's take that as a round. So, every month 125,000 kunas for the last 10 months, the government, Minister Maric pulls you out of your 7.200 kuna pocket. I think it is clear now to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia what is the minus in the budget and what it means. It's promising, not just for these, but for future generations. If we analyse an increase in revenue from a total of 3.3 billion kuna, as much as 2.5 billion kuna comes from increased VAT revenues. Minister Maric himself said a month and a half ago that it was a larger amount of fiscalised bills, which he was and will be the result of higher prices by the end of the year at which citizens of course buy. Unfortunately, the revenue side reduces revenues from the euro funds by nearly 2 billion kuna, although only four months ago we optimistically predicted to increase them by those 2 billion. We plan them so we increase them and yet we realize that we are unable to pull them back and then reduce them by the same 2 billion. On the spending side, however, almost the whole deepening of the hole in the budget of 2.3 billion kuna will serve to resuscitate debt in health, although for a year we have been talking about the need to urgently launch health reform from the budget to the rebalancing budget of the government does nothing but increases the budget minus and shoots additional billions of kunas in health recovery. You too, Minister Maric, have been a critic of such behaviour, but you have relented the failure of Minister Beros and have shot another 2.3 billion in health care. This rebalancing shows us that the government is unable to launch and rebuild, as many as 228 million kunas have been reduced to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Reconstruction after the earthquake. And we wonder why? Well, because we're witnessing the restoration, so people freeze again, some donors or the Association of Entrepreneurs rebuilding people's houses, and we're not doing anything, and we're not spending 228 million kunas again. So, generations will talk about how the government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Andrej Plenkovic, was unable to rebuild people's homes, and here Andrej Plenkovic boasts that billions are withdrawing from the eu funds or from the eu funds. We can also talk about, in the budget rebalancing, the second most significant point of expenditure reduction is co-financing of the eu project. You boast about the project Slavonia in which individuals close to HDZ withdraw funds to build apartments at sea. You boast of the withdrawal of the great billions from Europe thanks to Andrej Plenkovic, so where does that money go? Where's he leaking? Where is he now? Why are we reducing the share of co-financing, why aren't we determining projects? Why are we cutting revenue from this budget from eu funds if we have so many at our disposal? So, I'd have a lot more to do with all the dubiousness around this budget, there might be more time in replicas, but I'd like to send a clear message to the government of the Republic of Croatia. So this rebalancing is a manipulation of citizens on the issue of the safe Croatia. So Minister Maric, if Andrej Plenkovic underestimates your senses, if Minister Beros underestimates your senses, why do you underestimate the understanding of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? This isn't a real budget. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68545	The first replica of the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68546	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ahmetovic, you have well noticed the problem of health, which is actually a key problem, and I will tell all developed societies and so is Croatia, we are developed if we compare ourselves with others. So the cost of the health system in the Republic of Croatia under quotes says economic terminology... is about 38 billion kuna, so that... depends directly on the budget with HZZO. Now watch what's interesting, in covid, which is somewhat justified, so the health costs are growing, but we don't know what next year, nobody knows, not even Andrej Plenkovic, who thinks he knows, now be careful what you have, you have an attempt by the Minister in the government of Andrej Plenkovic Mr. Marić to suddenly wipe out and say next year the costs of the public health system will be 7 billion kuna less than or 6.5 billion kuna less. So that's impossible. So that's the focus, a little bit further to comment on how it's possible, except, of course, we're introducing the euro, so we're going to hide it a little bit below the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68547	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68548	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. We were all as I said in my replica as well as witnesses to that important performance on the Health Committee when, as a matter of fact, Minister Maric was having a little fight, who is now leaving with Minister Beros, and about health reform. When Minister Maric said no more enlisting billions of kunas from the Republic of Croatia in the recovery of the incompetence of Minister Beros, it is time for reforms. And then Minister Beros announces that the reform is already on Prime Minister Plenkovic's table, but because of the local elections, it cannot move into reform. We haven't heard from the last local elections since the reform. So it is evident here that someone is incompetent or Minister Beros or Minister Maric. I would say Minister Maric is an excellent cashier, a cashier, but Minister Beros is incompetent in one word. We know whose exit door is open all over, I wonder what the government of Andrej Plenkovic is waiting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68549	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68550	Nice greeting to Vice President HS and a nice greeting from counterpart Ahmetovic. I'm worried about demographics, I'm worried that we'll be left alone in this country, I don't know, probably colleagues of HDZ, you from the SDP, us from Most and a few other parties from colleagues and we'll be alone and we'll look at each other. So 250,000 citizens left Croatia. This morning I spoke to the Minister one Hungary, let's let these policies go, so 8.5 billion euros, Jesus, 8.5 billion euros invest in their families, that's their demographic policy, and it seems to me that we are doing everything to make our Croats and citizens leave our country, the atmosphere is corrupt, people don't want to be and live somewhere where they can't progress because they're progressing alike, and not able, and then we still have this situation. What would you suggest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68551	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68552	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You probably wouldn't want to hear what I would suggest because my measures would be too radical for anyone's taste. However, what is embarrassingly additional, you are talking about demographics and the retention of the population, here counterpart Bačić earlier points out on the speaker how important it is to ensure quality service in health care, but forgets that citizens are not crazy, that they are not stupid and that they see that there are no quality services either, that there is no service, there is no payment of doctors enough to stay here at all to provide that quality service, and there is no money from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic because they are constantly pulling that money and shooting at health care that is not good. Health care is the only thing they keep on, on, on some level, those hardworking people who almost get to do their job, until, very briefly. Of course, they will leave as well as those who cannot get a quality service and those whose pockets that money is coming out of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68553	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68554	Thank you. Well, yeah, what you actually mentioned about the deficit itself first started with 10 billion, so 17, and 19.7 and what Minister Maric said 2-3 times, but that's not all. Is there recently information from the wholesalers that the debts are due, not the total debts, the debts of 5 billion before a few days of eating and of these dues we see that only a billion and a half will be paid, just under the quotes, that means that it's another 3.5 of what we have, and it's actually been done that once they're caught, so it's not now 38 billion bucks that's being added to health than it is 41, and it's already getting closer to such proportions that it's already the level of the pension system and that's what the whole system stays on the doctor's enthusiasm, it's becoming a system where we see that we have a problem with covid, we have a problem with giving these kind of money, it's just not a good perception in the public that so much of health is so many minuses, and that there's so much later in the health system, and I don't think that there't be so much money, and there's so much money, and there's been so much money. that it is someone's serious need to catch those reforms. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68555	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68556	Thank you very much, fellow Lalovac. In your response to my replica, you somehow made it clear to me that you do not actually blame Minister Maric for this dramaticly poor state of health and shooting billions in health because he does not have all the information but rather would have decided that Minister Berosh is guilty because he is not implementing reforms. However, my question to you, so I will answer you with a question to your replica, if the Minister of Health is not incompetent, then he doesn't care because he knows very well that health expenditure this year will be at least as big as next year because it's not possible in a year to carry out such a reform that by 6 billion kuna, health expenditure is reduced. And what you're saying is that the debts of drugstores or drugstores are only paid in such a small part of it shows exactly the concern of Minister Marić for paying debts and Minister Beros, as well as the government of Andrej Plenkovic for the fact that tomorrow we will fear whether patients will have medicines Is the wholesale gonna stop that delivery. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68557	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68558	Dear counterpart Ahmetovic, I really don't know what kind of radical measures would be in the fight against corruption that no one would like. I am quite certain that you do not have such measures, but I know of some that you have proposed as a member of an anti-corruption council whose own member, and this famous fiscal transparency or full transparency of the budget with all the views of individual payments and payments, something at the level of what you have spent yourself as mayor of your city, so I ask you for your comment on what this effect would have on reducing budget expenditures, because it is known in fact by the experiences of other countries that have introduced it to meet costs together 30 percent because the ministers are then aware that the public would be disgusted by the fact that all their money is being spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68559	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. My answer to the question of radical measures was about the issue of resolving Mr. Miletic's demographic problems, not about corruption, but there would probably be measures far more radical than anyone expects, but I know that I would have some and some supporters, or those who would support me in such radical measures, and you're probably the first. As for the transparency of the budget, I am now hearing or seeing that HSLS coalition partner Dario Hrebak also spoke about how this reform of transparency is soon moving through the Budget Law, where transparency is not actually going to be introduced, the openness of the budget to the state treasury, which is not a transparent way of showing the data, but an open display of the data, and you all know it very well, so that the great transparency that Dario Hrebac advocated in Bjelovar and during the campaign and Gordan Jandroković and HDZ are not going to see either T, so much about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68560	The next individual debate is respected Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Apparently, when we look at the budget's explanation when we see that income from this rebalancing relative to the rebalancing that HS adopted in June is increasing by 3.3 billion kuna to the appearance of great news, excellent. However, when we see the other side of the medal, which is that compared to the same rebalancing of June expenditures increases by 6 billion kuna, it certainly gives a completely different dimension, especially if we consider what some colleagues from my club said before me that the first rebalance was the total budget deficit of 17 billion kunas when we take expenditures from incomes, and this budget further increases this situation and this budget will result in a lack of revenue over expenditure being 19.7 billion kuna. And here's really the time to talk about where to go. No one here is opposed to investing in the health system and providing the most possible care for patients or patients in Croatia. With this rebalancing, it is planned 6.4 additional billion in health care, but without systematic reform, without the terms of the health minister, but also Prime Minister Plenkovic, I think that the Ministry of Finance with this budget rebalancing, but not the projections we see for next year should simply not come, as much as we have already heard here that a new budget projection or budget plan for 2022. plans to save on health costs about 6 million kuna. How? We didn't get an answer to that question, it's irrational, it's not something that's real and it's not good to deceive first parliamentary representatives, and then the Croatian public. Speaking of which, I'm going to look back a little bit on the Ministry of Science and Education, but that's also a plastic example where we can see what the blood count looks like and the rest of the budget rebalancing. It says 928.8 million kuna more for primary and secondary school salaries, okay, but we didn't know about it 1. January 2021 the pre-conditions have been created or the regulation has entered into force, or an additive which is said to increase the base plus 2% of the additive by 4%. Here I heard a colleague of the coat of arms say Bujevic as if we had to pay overtime now because it is the legacy of some past governments. Yes, but in that he forgets to mention that even these salaries that the educators finally welcomed means 2016. There were conditions for increasing the base by 6%. It took the government five years, five years first to admit that that's how it was when the lawsuits started to put into its own kind of program that it would be respected with other items and knowing that on January 1, 2021. We come up with some items on charge where it is actually the salaries of employees in other public and state services, but above all, the Ministry of Science and Education is listed here, we pretend it does not exist. We had another rebalancing in June where we didn't see that through at least this part we tried to solve this whole story. Secondly, using eu funds, disaster, already said predecessors 200 million kuna less to co-finance from the state, so it's one indicator of such bad investment stories, but not only that, ok, I can understand that we have encountered some problems in using the Solidarity Fund just being made available, but we must not ignore the fact that the withdrawal deadline of these funds is limited, it may be next year. Even if we get a six-month extension, we're in big trouble. The Ministry of Science and Education, in fact, decreases in the operational programme Effective human potentials 30% less with this rebalancing, competitiveness and cohesion even worse by 65% less, the Regional Competence Centres do not simply have them, and here we have warned about some administrative matters, due to one paper from the Ministry of Science and Education, this project has been put on hold or stalled with it, nothing has been done with it. There's more, I don't have time anymore, but I think the point is clear. I won't even mention it to any child.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68562	The following is an individual debate against Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68563	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I was arguing on behalf of the club amongst the first, now and individually, and I would dare say that we've heard all sorts of arguments, half-arguments, not to tell the truth and half-truths. If I were mean, I'd say we've heard all kinds of nonsense, but I'm not mean, so I won't say it. Some things really touched me, and I have to look back at them, and then ask questions to the vice-president of the government who is very specific and directly concerned with the responsible availability of budget money or the money of the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia because we have repeatedly heard the illusions of what from him, which is from colleagues and colleagues in the debate. In fact, we've heard that incomes have happened, government revenues have happened, government has nothing to do with it, the government just manages expenditures, and incomes are happening by the Holy Spirit, or at least that's how some of the colleagues and colleagues on this side of the assembly claim. Well, if they'd listened to me carefully one of my first arguments was that we weren't managing expenditures, that's the first thing we didn't manage. No, we can't predict them, we can't program them well and we can't plan them. So if we don't manage the expenses, I'm afraid we'll manage the revenues. As far as income is concerned, if it didn't happen to us and if it really is the government's credit, then it's due to taxation, high tax pressure, not cost cuts, etc. And there's been a lot of debate over this assembly room. But I haven't noticed that the government is planning costs, and I've noticed even less that it is planning expenditures, and that's actually the bad side of this budget rebalance, but also the budget in general as the basic identification document of a government. The other thing is running away from responsibility for the pandemic. Well, colleagues and colleagues on the right, on my right, I must remind you that when the pandemic started the opposition I was in, and then she offered you her hand and said we're going to do this together. Let's come together to agree on measures, let's agree together on measures to help the population, entrepreneurs, etc. What was the answer then from the government? Here I will remind you because I have a memory for more than five minutes. The government's answer was no, we don't need you. There are no measures, so we have proposed measures in the form of legislative proposals, so these measures have been rejected to get the same or similar measures in the government's proposal in a week's time. We offered then to take responsibility with you, but then you rejected it. Now that I'm bad, if I wanted to say why that is, I'd say you went to the Gambit that you'd successfully master the pandemic and that you'd be able to handle it very quickly and then you'd pick up all the laurels. Two years later, the situation isn't exactly like that, but well, to you on account of yourself, we'll see what the future will bring, but in any case, the way the pandemic was managed by either financial or any other aspect is not commendable. The other thing is that I will also end my individual debate is the specific question of Minister Maric, or Deputy Prime Minister, and then rhetorically to all your colleagues and colleagues is it really responsible for the availability of public money? In fact, public service trade unions have filed thousands of lawsuits for failure to pay 6% of the salary allowance under the 2009 basics agreement. You remember in 2009 who was in power, um this same HDZ, not the same pardon, Sanader's HDZ this is the new HDZ. So the same ones were in power. At the end of last year, the Supreme Court reached a verdict in favour of workers after which workers went into mass mourning. The trade unions responsibly sought a settlement with the restoring ministries in order to avoid judicial costs and the costs of lawyers, skills, etc., and were ready to give up and the corresponding interest. At the request of a settlement, watch this now because this is responsible for the availability of public funds, the directors of the institution have deafen themselves, they deafen the pardons of the ministry, and the directors of the institution have been given instructions to persist in disputes even though all the judgments so far, and to 100 of them have been found in favour of workers. Therefore, taxpayers' money is thrown at the payment of lawyers representing institutions, at the cost of trial and skills in disputes that are in advance known to be the outcome or that the government will lose them. Is this a colleague and colleague responsible for the management of public money?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68564	Replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68565	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Sanader, dear colleague Hajdukovic, let us try to explain it a little more to the Croatian public. Not all people are understood at the end and in the budget processes, which you think are the main disadvantages, so here's the particular story here all day we're talking about the budget and how you look at what are the main disadvantages that are not working out. Here's what we can just talk about, and what you see are potential problems, difficulties with this kind of budget proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68566	Thank you very much, so a colleague would be very ambitious to answer in just one minute. That's what I tried to say in 15 minutes, but I'll tell you maybe the best example. So what you're showing is that from year to year we're misplanning expenditures, not to worry about burning, one of the burning problems, and that's, say, health care systems, especially under pandemic conditions, is growing debt in health care and growing debt to major drugs. So I'm going to remind you one more time because it's not such a short memory, somewhere last year at this time we've discussed it, we've had the thematic committee sessions, we've been discussing here at the pay phone, in the towers just like that long drugstores. And you remember what it was then. The wholesalers said they'd suspend the delivery, it came to question whether our hospitals would, and then the patients, and eventually, the general population would be supplied with drugs. A year after that, we discuss the same identical, so we haven't moved but not a millimeter. Here's just proof of how much you plan and how much you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68567	Next individual debate, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68568	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I wanted first to commend the minister for having patience and still being with us, but in the meantime he left, so I cannot commend him, but I hope that we will get answers from our associates that we have set here and that I will still set up during my debate. First of all, I have to draw attention to the fact that these rebalancing documents are extremely difficult to read because we simply can't put them in any kind of relationship with the previous years because there aren't any points of resistance. If we try to start from the profit tax shown in the budget now in rebalancing for 500 and 3 million kuna, they say we can't because it refers to 2020. If we start with a contribution to the pension says we couldn't have been subsidies, so some of them were freed from paying that contribution again we don't have a point of resistance. If we start with any additional data, let's say from the data from the DZS on the number of employees, then we get information that currently at the 8th month, millions of 586 thousand 735 workers were employed and that this is not such a huge increase as the government's representatives are talking about here. This is an increase compared to the period from 1 to 8 months 2020. Only 0.1% means official data on DZS sites. If we try to calculate something based on paid income tax, we can't because these data are simply not available to us, and we know that income tax is actually income from local self-government, so... a lot of things to collect and we would hardly get to that data. When we read the documents that were sent to the debate, we see that there has been a significant increase in taxes on goods and services by 2 billion 850 million kuna, while income from profit tax is lower by 603 million that I mentioned earlier. The second data that enters the eyes is almost €220 million less for contributions, which was said in the same way that it is the reason that some were released from payments because they received grants. Furthermore, it is evident that we will get 1 billion and 972 million kuna from abroad, what is worrying is that from EU funds we will get 764 million less than the plan. From other EU programmes, we will get less than 1 billion 339 million kuna and from the funds of the recovery mechanism and the resilience of 62 million kunas less. Here's the data we received from the paperwork that was given to us for this debate. What is particularly worrying is the fact that the funding on EU funding projects is being reduced to a large number of sub-projects in almost all portfolios. We can ask here's the minister and his associates, what happened to the education? Why are the funds being reduced so much and even on the legislative reform project, and we are trying to introduce ourselves to other EU members as a knowledge country? What about health care? How many times have we tried to resolve the consequences without trying to deal with the causes of the negatives that have been created in health care for six years? And no one's doing anything about it. Furthermore, if we're talking about the earthquake and the recovery damage from the earthquake, we haven't tied our hands and feet to the government, they've defended the law with which they've tied their hands and legs, and that's why nothing can be restored and almost nothing has been spent to rebuild. Now we have a new law where we have warned that there is a possibility for activities that are not very good for our fellow citizens. We'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68569	We've got a few replicas, and she's a real respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68570	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you spoke about the availability of data and the issue of transparency of all this data, my question is how do you actually comment that in this budget rebalancing, the amount of information funds is cut? So I'm talking specifically about health care, so obviously the state doesn't care and the government doesn't care whether our hospital system or the entire health system is adequately informed. The fact is that many hospitals, and even some KBCs still do not have a hospital information system, so there is a question of connection, availability of waiting lists, transparency of business. Here's your comment on the reduction of information funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68571	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68572	I would like to hope that the reason is that all healthcare institutions will access the centre of the only services. There should be all systems in one place and that information should be much cheaper. However, let us not forget when we talk about informing health care that we are not just talking about the systems monitored by patients, that we are also talking about systems that allow us to overcome patients. And there's a problem, if you haven't bought devices that are of course computer-supported because there were no funds or because the funds are wrongly focused then it's a big problem if we have a sick nation, and especially now after this covid crisis is even sicker and if we don't have the apparatus we need, we're going to have an even bigger problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68573	The next replica of the esteemed Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68574	Thank you, Chairman. When you speak critically about this part of the rebalancing system, it is important to stress that even now they are not adequately provided in the education system, nor children with special needs with developmental difficulties, nor those who are gifted. With these changes in the budget, don't we put them in an even more unfavourable position despite the fact that we all like to talk about how the future is on children and how important they are to us and how the future of this country doesn't exist without these children?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68575	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68576	As far as education is concerned, there is a big problem especially with gifted children because they hardly pay any attention to the gifted children. Parents who have gifted children must seek support from their own side, they must visit experts who help them. Children with developmental difficulties are currently in class with children who do not have these problems and there are problems for teachers. And that's a big problem for teachers because teachers and teachers have to pay a lot of attention to children with developmental difficulties even though they have assistants, but they're wasting a lot of time on those children. I'm not an expert on that area so you can say what would be better, which would be better. Would it be better if these children were special, whether they were trained in a special program or not, but I think we have to solve this problem one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68577	The last replica, the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68578	Thank you very much. You were talking about the health care system, and here's my colleague Rajko and I were together in the SDP government, which started even though it was a recession, there was a recession, there was a deflation unlike inflation that still, which is even harder to influence incomes, and I know it started with health reform. I remember my colleague Rajko worked and master plans and started master plans for hospitals, it was about centralization of services and public procurement, I remember the rehabilitation councils when we were sitting and passing all kinds of expenses. And that's when it started to happen, it's a really hard job, how many meetings we've had, etc., they remember colleagues from the Ministry of Finance who were in the boards of these hospitals and something started to happen. And that's when once in two years it went into rehab I remember paying the debts of six billion kuna. You know what's going on right now? It happens that it doesn't communicate between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, and now it's two times in one year, two times in one year. This is the second day of the trial, right? It was the first time in June. Now this is it. Then there was one thing. So I'm gonna tell you, it's gotta be brought in. under some kind of control. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68579	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68580	Well, I think that at that time in that government, good steps were made, good beginnings, and that it continued I think that today would be a much better result. Today, the problem is that you said it yourself, here in one year we're going to resuscitate twice. But what do we have now? We're resuscitating the consequences, no one's trying to get rid of the causes. When we solve the causes, when we recognize them, when we manage them, when we lead them differently, when we lead them differently, then we will know what, when and how to do and what, when and how to finance and to what extent to which to finance and why to finance. And then in that recovery, find the guilty and bring them where they belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68581	Next is the individual debate of the respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68582	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a minister who does not have and this associate minister, when someone speaks from the position of a healthcare professional, then we can say that in the system we are interested primarily in providing timely, accessible and quality health care services to our patients without waiting lists, without additional payment of medicines and services. In addition, we would like satisfied employees in the system, better paid than now, less burdened on more jobs in one day, which is not the case in the regulated European countries and therefore people leave Croatia. But reality is different to us. We've been talking about reforms for years, and now we've had more problems with Covid, and there's still no reforms, and health care is spending a lot of money. On the one hand, the health care system can now be satisfied with another patching of holes and increasing funds in the total amount of over 9 billion kuna this year to bring down payment deadlines within 180 for hospitals, 120 days for pharmacies. As of September 30, the long hospital according to the major drugstores amounted to 2.8 billion kuna and about 400 million kuna pharmacies. And what do the 2022 projections tell us now? For the Ministry of Health in 2022 compared to 2021, the plan was lower by 5 billion and 300 million kuna. Transfer of the HZZO budget in 2022 compared to the 2021 difference of 3 billion 828 million kuna. Hospital debt recovery 2022 compared to this year by a billion and 577 million kuna. Total expenditure financed from all sources of funding for the Ministry of Health 6.4 billion kuna less 2022. The increase in wages for overtime in healthcare is the difference is 245 million kuna plus 2022 compared to 2021, but that belongs to us. Now the question is, how sustainable is this plan at all? The needs of the healthcare system in the next period will be even greater, not less. Currently, healthcare records an additional 280m kuna each month, and Minister Maric recently presented a 400m kuna figure to the media. Possible changes in the system from ownership to changes in the structure of finances to structural changes in order to stop the creation of new debts are still unscheduled, there is no indication of an audit of operations in health or health care institutions or for a clean start. The reforms are therefore not yet in sight, the centralisation of the system is announced, the takeover of health institutions by the state. Is that a 2022 projection? It's not. As long as the basic problems are not solved, there will be no system healing. First, pay by effect. I'm asking the board today about the increase of 100 million kuna for primary health care, 193 million for specialist and consular health care, 464 million kuna for the item remain health care and says HZZO director, and now we've been paying 100% of the limit for some time even though many do not make the agreed commitment. It may be now, but the basic problem has been the inequality of health care facilities for years. Those who did not make it to the limit received it in full, and those who did beyond the limit were not paid them except for certain fluctuations that occurred during our SDP minister. Most institutions today spend their limits only on wages. In Germany, the process of reform from a limit payment to an effect of 6 years has not yet begun a real reform. Second, real service prices. If the X-ray of the tooth costs HZZ 7 kuna, examination of specialists, subspecies and 100 kuna, what are the service prices? Third thing, information. The half-year execution was planned 44 million 850 thousand kuna only 28.24% and now, of course, the expenditure plan is reduced by 173,000 kuna, and we are seeking information. All healthcare institutions have not yet established a hospital information system, the issue of managing waiting lists, connecting patient findings and business transparency. United public procurement next to the problem, state obligations under the Health Insurance Act are not paid in full but a maximum of 60 per cent as a result of this loss eventually further increases, the state is obliged to pay for all categories of as much as 4.9 billion kuna. And there are also a number of controversial items that I have encountered, from the Immunological Institute where funding has been reduced, so the health tourism I mentioned in the replica, etc. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68583	Replica esteemed Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68584	Dear MPs, I've talked several times in this assembly about the problems of special hospitals, I've talked about problems, the problems of the price of services, so it turns out that one patient who comes to Hubert's bath pays a fee for this treatment less than what costs water to be put in that tub. So, no electricity, no paramedics' work, no assistants' work, no anything else that's there. It was also a problem with limitations. Now, in your speech, you've mentioned the limitations, I know that there's a major problem with restrictions in special hospitals, and I'd like to ask you what kind of situation you have in your hospital with these restrictions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68585	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68586	Well, I'd say like this, misery and grief, not only in my hospital, but in most medical institutions there are limits to all previous years, as I said primarily insufficiently, we're witnessing an unfair distribution of financial resources. For example, from 2016 data, official data from the Croatian Association of Employers in Health where you have similar institutions, for example my institution and one health institution by similar number of insurance companies in southern Croatia, and you know what your difference is? So my facility, for example, got 1,000 kuna per insurance company, and this other facility was 1,499. Let's say we do a lot more of the gravitating population, the neighbouring one, or the southern one, the health institution does a lot less and then you drop the limit on the case of our institution 8,200, according to this other 15,000. I mean I'm not jealous of that other institution, I want to show you what injustice is really like in Assembling a limit and it definitely needs to be fixed. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68587	Next replica, the esteemed Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I didn't mean to argue either, but I was offered this good debate by the MP, so I'd just like to draw a few more sentences that I think are important to the health system and now the minister is back here. So in the healthcare system, financial discipline is primarily necessary for the directors of large hospitals of the KBC in the field of expenditure, then it is important to monitor the outcome of treatment that does not exist in Croatia at all, which exists in all EU countries, as a result of which we have patients with diabetes who have, have the highest number of leg amputations that we do not follow at all. And what's particularly important in health care is that we have a conflict of interest in private and state-owned clinics where our head of clinics are mahogany owners and private hospitals and connections, professional integration of KBCs with regional county hospitals and the financial responsibility of directors for not breaking the financial limit of each hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68589	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68590	Thank you very much. Here's a esteemed colleague, you've actually completed what a man can't say in five minutes. These are also the problems that exist in our health system, so not only the award of the limit, not only the payment by effect, but also the monitoring of the outcome of the treatment, that's what you and I have talked about several times. Breaking up privately and publicly, but in terms of knowing the order. So now you can't completely ban someone who adequately does work in their health care facility whether he chooses to go to work in private or not, so there must be order. And the next thing you know, financial responsibility. I absolutely agree, but still the prerequisite that someone is financially responsible, who is at the head of the institution, that there is a first-class order in the allocation of financial resources with which he has it. You can be 100 times financially responsible if you don't know the limit of 10 million kunas, and you spend 13 million kunas, so who's gonna be so crazy to be the head of that facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68591	Followed by a replica of the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68592	Dear colleagues, I agree with you. This is what I mentioned in the debate that when we talk about health reform, we must first think about how to make the service more quality for our citizens. You mentioned several times and you announced the centralization of health care, so I'm interested in someone who works in the system whether you think that this will increase the quality of services that our citizens will have and whether you think that this will rationalise the finances within the health system itself when we know that 75% of all health debts are created under those hospitals that are run by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68593	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague I was just talking about maybe a week ago in a free speech and I criticized this announced draft amendments to the Health Insurance Act because it wasn't completed or about health care, excuse me, because it's not fixed, it means something is trying to make a pen move, it's not done, and an analysis that would be available to us here at the end of the line that we need to make some decisions you have institutions maybe special hospitals that operate much better than some other institutions. Now, we're going to decentralize everything with the pen's move, and without some kind of nail being done, and without doing an analysis of how the hospital is doing, what are its limits, how much it spends on taking care of the population, what is the percentage of the population going towards that facility so that we haven't actually seen any concrete plan and analysis of business and why something is going to be done that announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68594	Next is an individual debate by a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68595	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. All the people who spoke here today were actually talking about only one subject, and that's the budget rebalance. We are here today de facto discussing two topics or two documents, one document on the implementation of the budget for the first six months, which should have been a topic that I would have come to praise the entire government for making of what it has promised the citizens in the first six months. I see that only the Minister of Finance has come whose impeachment the opposition seeks, he must remain until evening. And then we talk about the rebalancing of the budget that shows everything that could possibly be hidden in the execution of how problematic it is. Now, in my question, I asked a very simple question in the Replica Minister, we had an increase in incomes that we didn't expect, and this increase in revenue of six billion, which is not a little bit, so that at the same time we would have an increase in expenditure of 15 billion of which, by 6 in principle, we know where they are in health, I can't justify the fact that they are there and that they have appeared, but I can try to understand that with the events that took place in this country in the last year that we were supposed to answer. The health care was one that failed to respond, and we had basically two or three events, the third is happening right now. The first event was an earthquake, the second was a covid and the third was leaving the whole world from the crisis, something the CNB governor said here, explaining that it was clear that energy would all practically enter parameters in the growth economy, which meant that this government should have welcomed it because it had documents that warned her about what was going to happen. Now let's talk about the earthquake, the citizens in that earthquake showed the solidarity that these citizens show every time something happens in this country and where they actually show themselves. In this assembly, we have now changed the law for the third time so that the fund and the ministry, and the fund and the ministry are actually a representative of this government, helped citizens to see in the budget rebalancing the funds in the fund by 500 million, the execution of a ministry that borders with traces and what is actually the most regrettable to see that those funds Europe was willing to give us to help us, we didn't get, we didn't withdraw, and we didn't pull them because we didn't manage the processes. I cannot believe that the government that owns the facilities that need to be reconstructed is unable to agree on a team that is able to withdraw funds for the reconstruction or placing into function of these objects. I must admit that as far as covido is concerned, we agreed last year that we had welcomed him, ha a man would say unprepared, no one expected, but if we had entered into this year that we didn't know what and how we were going to have to answer, it's completely unclear to me, that if the MPs were asking the Minister if he was aware that the health care system in covid had fallen apart, I'm talking about last year, this year that same government didn't, and I don't know how to say how to make that system work at the moment of covid. And now let's go a little bit by points, the Ministry of Finance has the biggest takedown to practically help the economy, and on the other hand, the biggest payment has to be made towards the EU and the fees for the seized property by the court settlement. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68596	Replica, the esteemed Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68597	Here's my colleague Brumnic, you said that the increase in expenditure by 15 billion kuna, you said that citizens showed solidarity about the earthquake, that we changed the law three times, and that the government reduced the funds for the reconstruction of the earthquake victims' homes and that they did not withdraw the eu funds. If we changed the law the people showed solidarity, then what did the government do to restore the earthquakes in Bania and the City of Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagoria County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68598	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68599	I can just answer, the government didn't do anything. And when this last amendment of the law was passed, I warned, and I really hope it doesn't happen, even though it literally says in the law that it will happen, that all those who mix real estate will practically profit from this law. So here, the finance minister should know where Croatian citizens' money is spent. I warn him that the reconstruction will also renovate those who bought real estate in the meantime, that two, three, five and 15 real estates will be restored, and that, for example, they will not restore the barn to the man who lives from that economic facility in Bania.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68600	Next replica, revered Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68601	I thank the chairman. I'm gonna go back to health when you said that healthcare fell apart last year in Covid, it's still falling apart. Here we have, as I said today in the doctor's warning and association debate, you have today a dramatic extraordinary presse of the director of the Split hospital who says they're moving on to a cold drive because they don't have enough staff. I would say that the collapse of the system at the time of the Coronus crisis is actually due to the fact that for years this health care is not reformed properly. When I came here today and asked the Minister when he was going to stop that hole, that black hole we're always putting billions into didn't really answer that question, but here's what your comment is about whether there's an end to that black hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68602	Dear colleagues, I will try to answer in a slightly different way predominantly what will happen in the future because when something like this happens from step to step, then ask yourself the question why is this happening? Because when something first happens, you can admit that someone didn't manage, but when something happens two, three and four times, then the question is that they have some kind of background plan. When I listen to some of the people who come in front of the ministries explain what's going on or what's supposed to happen in health care, I'll tell you, I think this is an introduction to the semi-privatisation of the health system in the Republic of Croatia, and let the minister deny me if that's not true. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68603	Next individual debate follows, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68604	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Sanader, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates, respected colleagues, colleagues, ministers here all day we have been talking, we are thinking, we are watching the whole story of the budget and it is good to talk about democracy, so that you can hear how the opposition thinks, which messages tell you. This morning, on behalf of the MOST Club, let's put it this way, less or more than I could have done in that surgical dictionary, I'd have seceded some of our thoughts about the budget that I've put out, and I'm going to repeat now 2 items and in 3 ministers just one, one would have said friendly advice that is directly under you and under you, under Minister Beroshem, but also under you. So the first 250,000 of our people left Croatia, we have to stop it. I don't think that's a problem just because I don't know Prime Minister Plenkovic, HDZ, that's my problem, that's the problem of the opposition as a whole, that's the problem of every party that thinks about our country, that's the problem of all those who've involved themselves in any way from Croatian defenders to citizens, workers, intellectuals to anyone, that's our common problem. Please, let's think about it, but in 2020 we only lost one town the size of the Cross. That's, that's too important. The share over 65 has exceeded the share of under 18. We have about a million and a half employees and about 2.5 million inactive residents, including pensioners. You really need a magic wand so you can lie to her and make it work. Now, when I talked about this demographic that's crucial at the end and for the sake of finance, we know how full the budget is whether, not with the tooth fairy is. Minister means don't give in to the scarecrows or go to the lockdown, so at no cost at all. And I'll explain now. So, Professor Dr. Ioannidis epidemiologist from Stanford 6,000 quotes has a monthly. It's not some grandmother vanga, it's not someone you understand came down from a tree, so now he's smart about it. He's a top expert who, among other things, he, for example, Advocating vaccination at all costs, old people 80 years old, all who have difficulties, risk groups, so the man is in the center. And he says the lockdown is catastrophic, the ministers can send anything to your email. So, like this, 305 million jobs lost globally to lockdown, 500 million people fell below the poverty level for lockdown, from 135 million to 270 million have increased the number of people suffering from hunger. 24 million students stopped studying because of the lockdown this is what we'll see, and I'm not even going to talk about the consequences of psychophysical disease, we don't have sports, we don't have any recreation, I'm not going to get into what's going to come after long-term analysis. So, the Croatian public should be told, you can't hide the virus, you can't put it in Aladin's lamp, you can shut it up and if it didn't come out of that bottle, you'd already do it to me anyone who's kind of reasonable. And yes, he will pass through the entire Croatian society. Unfortunately, he'll pass, he won't be able to stop. Scientists say that all measures can prevent a maximum of 20% of the spread, and that's what we've heard, so they're usually also provisions to give the hospital's time system to function, but that's up to 20%. So he's gonna pass and do what he's gonna do. And that's why the government's been saying, the state, the opposition, everyone's saying what risk groups are going to do, people are being recommended something, but people have to be free. People have to be free, if you take our freedom, then there's nothing left, there's nothing left. And so I ask you, each one of you, to do what he thinks is most important, to be fair, to be honest, to be responsible, but I ask you for the name of God dear, if you believe in God, then in the name of God, if you do not believe again in the name of that goodness that we each have in ourselves, I firmly believe in it, each one of us carries it deep inside himself, do not accidentally take the state into lockdown, you will destroy Croatia, and the consequences will be long-lasting, long-term and long-term, and we see it outside in many examples around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68605	There's a replica, a respected representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68606	Dear colleague Miletic. Here we have so few similar views on the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, though, is that some view us as strange beaks, but with a psyche suffering, which is a violation of freedom as I say fascism in Croatia 21. For centuries, what people live on has been violated, that's the poorest part of the citizens who are the hardest to go through this pandemic, through these measures that often do not give the right results that they should give. Unfortunately, no one wants to talk about it because everyone wants to be as most people say, as the media says, listen to experts, only unfortunately one expert has a media space, other experts have no media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68607	Dear colleague. I'm always very careful, not politically, I don't care, so I'm in this term, I'm going to burn to the end, and the people will just stand forward... I never calculate in anything, I live by my conscience to the end so, to the end, but I'm very careful here. So, I really believe that the pandemic exists, that it has consequences, but look at the crafts of what is making me sick, Croatia loses 15,000 people every year because of the consequences of smoking, it says science, 15,000 citizens die from the consequences of smoking. Now I mean, I'm here to raise your hands and ban smoking, let's not lose 15,000 people a year, forbid smoking, or we'll explain to people who are the consequences of smoking, which are dangers and words to people, my friend, it's very logical that you'll die if you keep smoking, so if you want to do it in your own freedom, it's your right. I'd like to make sure we don't end up afraid to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68608	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honorable ministers with co-workers, MPs and MPs. I will refer to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is increasing with this rebalancing with the estimated 7.9 billion kuna by 221 million kuna, of which 100 million kuna will be directed towards the livestock and pigmeat sectors, which are in a really difficult situation due to the rise in prices of imput and market conditions. However, cattle farmers have told us that these funds will not be sufficient to deal with a positive outcome, so it is good that Croatia and Hungary, with the support of 13 other Member States, have requested additional funding from the European budget to assist the livestock sector. In addition to this measure, I would add the necessity of providing capacity for the storage of cereals and the construction of silos, and in line with the announcement made by the Ministry of Agriculture that such projects will co-finance, in particular, those farmers who link war and livestock production. This is important because we are facing a dizzy rise in livestock prices, which consequently has an impact on food prices on shelves in stores for our citizens. In addition, I consider it necessary to consider that in the future, we intervene through the stock reserves, so that grain and corn may no longer happen, and then we import it at 30% higher prices, but that we strategically plan and provide food now that we have it for those times when we may not have it or when prices will be extremely high. And as the funds increase by nearly 57 million kuna for veterinary and food safety, which I certainly support, they decrease by 20 million kuna for hunting, to reduce the damage from game and damage. At the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, we discussed several times how to prevent the damage done by game on crops of farmers and asked the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Hunting Union to find a sustainable solution in the dialogue. The reduction of funds by more than 20 million kuna leads to the conclusion that farmers will remain not only without crops this year but will run out of short sleeves because they will remain without compensation. That's what I'm saying because local hunting companies claim they don't have financial resources to compensate for, and the ministry plans to solve the problem through the insurance policy, although two public procurements have already failed. I will remind you that forests are state property and that game is state property and, as a farmer must care for his cattle, that it does no harm to others, so does the state. poachers must worry that gamers do no harm to farmers, and if that damage does happen, then they should be justly compensated. In a time marked by a covid crisis whose total cost for the state budget alone for two years has passed 40 billion kuna, most of the cost refers to measures to preserve jobs that are direct, which are not direct, these are taxes, contributions and everything the state has taken on its backs and I believe it was the right move because we have thus preserved 700,000 jobs. I understand that under these conditions it was challenging to find resources for all needs, and I appreciate that farmers have not been forgotten through various aid measures, but I would remind myself of the proposal that I made to ensure that farmers were pre-financed from the state budget for the restoration of their agricultural land and holdings because they do not have their own means for this purpose. The 120 million kunas secured in rural development measures for the recovery of agricultural holdings cannot be withdrawn until the project is completed and initial funding is needed in order to be realised. Someone who has lost everything in the earthquake has no funds, and banks in Croatia will not support them because farmers consider them risky. Therefore, despite my understanding of the Minister of Pre-financing's view of bad experiences so far, I suggest that in this situation, when it comes to farmers who have suffered from the recovery, pre-financing is granted to help them rebuild their economic facilities and their land, because they are not recognised by the Reconstruction Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68610	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here's exactly this year and last year I think she was one of the most challenging in budget planning, and practically all the rules that exist in budget planning had to be broken because we haven't had a crisis like this before. And congratulations to the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance on these results that did not come by themselves, certainly 9% of GDP growth and the record quarter with 16% growth this year did not come from itself. Despite all the hardships, despite the covid crisis, despite the earthquakes, we kept a credit rating, we heard that by more than 4 billion kuna the interest rate or interest rate is reduced, and the revenues in this rebalance are going to 153, so they rise by 3 billion kuna, expenditure is to 173 billion and with a deficit of 4.3%. It's still above the master's criteria, but our debt share in GDP is down by 4.2%. And that's where I'd like to put focus on the eu funds that in what way eu funds have contributed to these results and that absolutely does not say that we are bad at using European funds or that we have failed in that segment. In 2017, 7.3 billion kuna was paid, this year, last year 17.7 billion, this year planned 25.5, and with this rebalancing we bring it down to 23.6 billion kuna, next already practically 50% increase to 31.5 billion kuna. In other words, we see that European funds change Croatia for the better, to ensure better education, better health care, to ensure measures for our entrepreneurs and to ensure development where we have so far 50 billion kuna in plus, we have agreed 123%, we have paid 62%, and what is for the first time that we have achieved M+3, so the funds you use, one year you can 3. In advance, that we've achieved for this year at 10 months. In other words, there is no saying that any eurocent of lime from European funds will fail, and we are just chasing the dynamics and this figure of 31.5 billion kuna next year speaks enough to speed up the use of funds. For the next 10 years. We have 25 billion euros at our disposal, part going through the NPOO, part through the standard European budget, but when the opposition is talking about poor use of eu funds, let us remind ourselves that it is precisely the Croatian initiative during the Croatian Presidency that flexibility is possible. Flexible among eu funds to redistribute to everything needed for the needs of the covid crisis, primarily to jobs and medical equipment. And after this Croatian initiative which was accepted in record, in the timing, we are able to reallocate funds from 12 billion kunas that were given to save jobs covid support one and a good and significant part comes from European funds, and all these masks and respirators you see are also bought from eu funds from China. In the end, he would refer to the Solidarity Fund. As such, it is an instrument for a very rapid reaction and as such has 4 components that can be used to clean up what the military did and which we have refurbished, replacement apartments, earthquakes in L'Aquila, the Italians have practically only built replacement apartments, right, returning to the proper state of infrastructure where we have practically expanded the use of this and we are going to the full real restoration of schools and hospitals and all public purpose buildings, and 4 components of cultural heritage insurance in terms of the skeleton. That's why it might take us a little longer, but I believe we'll get an extension from Brussels, but for the first time we're using funds for a much wider purpose and what's going to be next year is that they're simply being transferred to the year behind. Therefore, this rebalance comes at a good time, retains all macroeconomic indicators, and clearly shows trends in which we are going in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68612	We have one replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68613	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pavic, you were saying that in fact no eurocent will fail from the funds that are secured. I'm interested in you having experience as Minister of Regional Development, and as far as I've talked about earlier, and it's only possible for farmers who died in an earthquake, through rural development measures that have provided 120 million kunas for the restoration of land and agricultural holdings, but these funds can only be obtained when the project is fully realised by a 100% return, which means they need initial funds to make them go into realisation, banks consider them risky, do not want to give them the funds. I know that there have been some problems in previous pre-financing periods specifically with the projects of local self-government units, but do you think it would be fair in this case to still look for a solution to pre-financing in the state budget because farmers are not covered by the law on reconstruction and are left to themselves de facto.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68614	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68615	Thank you, dear colleague Petir, so you have just given a good focus on one topic, and it concerns both the capacity of JLRS and farmers for the absorption of European funds. For the future period, which we have already highlighted to the Ministry of Finance that we would like to have one thematic point or session, I will be pleased that your committee is also taking part in this, which will concern strengthening pre-financing capacity. Of course, you need to see all the models, there are several ideas and models, any reserves for JLRS units, any capacity building or additional lines through HABOR and more, and to build them and to strengthen those capacities. And here I am very pleased that there was an additional €600 million inside this envelope for rural development, so for our farmers. So I think you're right, and that's certainly the theme that's gonna come to us. on the wallpaper. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68616	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Milan Vrkljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68617	Dear Mr. Chairman, the minister we have here, but it is likely that our minister is very well informed that the European Parliament's foreign political committee has adopted a report on the fight against corruption and organised crime where the Republic of Croatia is asked to investigate the business of businessman Tedeschi and to investigate whether there is a link to UDBE's capital. Unless it is implemented and informed by the European Parliament, Croatia is legally threatened with sanctions. I was trying to explain to our minister this morning what companies are without any employees who make enormous profits in Croatia. He's all over me with cynicism and I can say with the idea of protecting the thief said it was legally possible and that if I had any knowledge to report it to the DORH. So let's see what's really going on. In 2019, the incomes of such companies that do not have a single employee are 23 billion kuna. A year later in 2020, these companies' incomes amount to 20 billion kuna. Imagine no company has any employees. There are currently 13,000 companies registered in the Republic of Croatia, and of which there are 41,000 or terrible 30 percent, Mr. Ministers who told me you're watching on TV outside, are unemployed. So in Croatia there are 41,000 or 30% of companies that do not have any employees. I'd ask the minister to tell me if he's worried about this. At the same time, to further expand the subject and to remind our listeners who are watching us, we should say that the Croatian budget of 150 billion kuna and in the last 5 years of the government and the mandate of Plenkovic is 750 billion kuna, and that in the term of Plenkovic in 5 years this company has received 91 billion kuna without any employee and most of these companies are closed after a few years. These are all the data that are on the pages of FIN, and anyone can only study them for a little effort. It is fair to say that this form of business without any employee dates back to the Racan era of 2002 when it was the first time 5 billion kunas have been through such companies, and in the last 18 years it is 220 billion kuna again according to official FINA data. I'm asking the minister again if he's worried about something. Today we talk all day about health care, in last year 20 billion kuna, it is almost the budget of health, it is 7 Peljeska Bridges and 5 new Kosinj hydrocentrals, which would place Croatia on the side of ecologically decorated countries with enough electricity. And the minister referred me to the DORH. And I call on the minister to investigate the business of the Termo Power Plant Plomin 15 billion kunas have been incomed in 20 years without any employee, Cervica Zagreb 1 billion kunas have been paid in 4 years without any employee, VS Commerce 75 million kuna in one year without any employee and Geomax from Rijeka with 30 million kuna in one year without an employee. Would you listen, all of us together and our Croatian public that money is about. At the same time, in Croatia, 240,000 families were completed and 300,000 moved out of Croatia precisely because of corruption, nepotism and crime. And that's why I'm telling the minister now, and I'm calling for him to go to the DORH, and it's better if he goes to the DORH than if someone from the European Parliament knocks on his door. And I suggest to him that he resign uninvited, that Prime Minister Plenkovic disband the government and prepare for early elections, and I think that this is the kind of Plenkovic Croatia needs to be destroyed. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68618	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative, Željko Lenart. Stay a colleague, stay, stay calm, stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68619	No, I'm calm, Professor. You know I'm calm.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68620	Here's a colleague of Lenart's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68621	We shared a room together, so you know I'm calm, just tell me what you need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68622	No, no, I don't need you to know that I'm a colleague of Lenart's trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68623	Dear fellow Vrkljan, here's a list of companies that have earned billions without employees, and I'm going to make a little joke, so I don't think we have enough trained inspectors to do this, but our inspectors are combing the markets, the poor man who makes money on bread, and he doesn't solve the problem there either. Markets are combed all month, and cases like this don't get touched. I can only interpret that we obviously don't have enough educated people to master it, chew it, and say that these people didn't do it... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68624	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68625	I think we have enough people who are trained enough to investigate this, we have the obstruction and mobilisation of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia as a consequence of this institution do not do their job. After my report in the normal EU countries where we belong, the only result that could be, gentlemen of the HDZ, that the minister is currently resigning because he is aware of this, he knows this. He consciously, I don't know if he's protecting himself, protecting some ministers, telling you some wives from ministers who are also doing it will be time to take out those data, lovers, friends, friends whom he protects will sometimes have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68626	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Mandaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68627	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, chief state treasurer, respected fellow MPs and parliamentary deputies. Here's the whole day we're also hearing about the budget implementation report, a little bit about the enforcement law, the most about the rebalancing of the proposed budget, which goes up, which incomes rise, which expenditures grow, which makes no sense. It's always kind of the thesis that the budget is a picture of the policy and picture of the real state and so the rebalance of this budget is probably an image of the opportunity this year. Of course, about a year ago when we were making this budget, there was a lot of insecure time and settings that were at that time changed compared to the time that is now, and of course this today brings us to the proposed second budget rebalance for this year. I'm glad to say it right now, at last in the budget, we have a huge stake in the purchase of battleplanes of 2.4 billion kuna. We could finally hear from some colleagues and colleagues here today as well as from some club representatives that it doesn't exactly fit them to hold that there may be more important things in the country, but I feel the need to say here, and my opinion that this should have been done a long time ago. Yeah, we'll never have an extra billion euros, so let's just say we get planes, it'll always be a lot for us at any moment, but as a responsible state, I think we just have to do it. It may be someone from a comfortable warm apartment in Zagreb that doesn't matter if we have planes, but we in eastern Croatia in the border zones of Croatia bordering both Serbia and Bosnia where today it's rattling around with guns again that we want to have combat modern planes that will distract anyone who will continue to think about predicating towards Croatia. Again, something is being cooked and that this year 2.4 billion kuna is all going to be around a billion euros in the next period for the purchase of fighter planes, where we are fortunate to have done so before. Congratulations to Prime Minister Plenkovic for deciding to go there and Minister Banozic for everything he does in the process of getting those planes. There have been many words about health care, of course again this budget rebalance is also an opportunity for our health care, announced and reforms of the health system have gone quite broadly, quite comprehensively differently and cannot, given the complexity of this problem and given how long this problem is, of course respecting the fact that this problem costs the state or taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. We hope that the story of the reform will bring out solutions that will offer some alternatives on the bulky side of the budget, and we shouldn't be surprised, and we shouldn't be surprised if the issue is raised on the income side of the health system can't be all for nothing. We practically have a free health system, everyone has access to health services. That's the question if we're going to be able to do that in the future, we'll probably have to deal with it in the future. As long as it is so that we can expect probably every year and in the budgets, but also in the rebalances an increase in resources to maintain such a health system. I am pleased to see the increase in funding for agriculture, of course, we have been having a hard time hearing from the distinguished representative Petir that it is difficult for farmers in the livestock sector to help them, that they are those who bring additional value to Croatian agricultural production. The increase in salaries of more than 900 million kunas, we heard the minister in reply to the replicas to hold that the increase in wage levels in the public sector is generally affecting the growth of consumption in Croatia. I agree that the salaries in the state and public sector are not at the appropriate level, so I don't get it wrong, I'm not saying that we don't have perhaps some extra individual jobs, but the individual level of pay in the public sector isn't at the appropriate level. The question is again I say the number of people who work, but individual salaries question whether they're enough. Of course, we should also support this rebalancing that each other, the state is changing, living, moving on, and I believe that in the next week's budget debate, it will be another new tour, and new revenues and expenditures and those constructive discussions where we go next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68628	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MP, you were talking about expenditures where the highest item is actually for fighter planes, you mentioned other expenditures. What I'd like to touch and remind myself is that it's in the last 2 years. 40 billion kuna is secured for job rescue, keeping around 700,000 jobs in Croatia. However, the government has also taken certain measures that have been in favour of JLS, so you as the head of a city in Slavonia can tell how much these measures that the government has brought have helped to function, but also to fill the budget that you need to implement certain projects that are important for increasing the quality and standards of your citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68630	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68631	Thank you. Yes, the government has also invested in preserving jobs, we see an additional 600 million kuna and through this rebalancing. As far as the position of JLS was concerned, it was also in the parliamentary debates of the opportunity to look back on that as well. I would say that JLS had experienced a real renaissance back a few years when the JLS Finance Act was amended, when in fact all those below that average of development were further involved through current state aids, through that income difference, here's my JLS, but everyone else has actually gone better since then, to get oxygen, we've got wind in the back for all of those development projects that we'd otherwise not really have from our basic assets. The state helped and we thank them for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68632	The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68633	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is not my intention to call this a minister at all because it is his job to try to strain what is strained yes and that the financial situation is certainly not his fault or his incomer, but the problem is that everything else is hollow, so it leaks everywhere and it is very difficult to collect as much as it takes. High fuel price, more VAT, more income, food collection, domestic retail supplies, more VAT, more income again, in real terms wages are less and less every day, and that means that citizens will get less and more and more every day more and more harder to live. Here almost everyone agreed normally except the ruling ones, their task is to defend everything, that health care is in a very bad situation, the flood, the breakup is not known how deep, not thanks to the bad work of the doctor, they are trying as hard as they can, those who go to medical institutions can see it, but someone who plans, shares public procurement, jobs, has public money obviously not know his job. Unfortunately, Croatia has destroyed production, industry, and the last major industrial plant in Kutina for several weeks or months has not worked, sold to Turks. Unfortunately, the people who are going to be out of work or who are not going to have a job will not be a problem for this government because Switzerland is opening up, so probably our Croats will be able somewhere in order. In agriculture for measures to regulate the agricultural market less than 24 million kuna, our agricultural market is in ruins, each fighting for itself. This will make it even worse. A small amount of resources not to say for the government is important when it comes to billions, let's say 6 million kunas less for the national inventory of forest resources, obviously we don't still have to do that inventory because there's probably something else to cut, so it'll be easier to make an inventory. The planned funds for the multi-purpose helicopter equipment programme of 24.5 million kuna have been abolished. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm talking here with some more people about the need for an emergency helicopter service, it's promised, all ministers promise, but it hasn't come to life yet. Since we're a tourist country, given that we're stretching, I think it's a necessary thing and I don't know when we're finally gonna find the means to do this. The funds exist for some things that might wait, but for what it takes for an ordinary man there is no one to do it. I won't have a discussion, I'll just say hello to you in the end, God and Croats, shut up, and pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68634	A colleague of Lenart's, and you have one replica, which is a respected representative of Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68635	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Lenart, it is in no way true that your claim that wages are becoming less and less accurate. Under Finance Minister Maric's reforms, a personal deduction from 2,600 to 4,000 kuna has been increased, down two rates of income tax, and thus to a large majority of Croatian citizens, therefore personal income has been increased. You personally know, therefore, that you are taking part in the levels that decide at local and regional level to pay from year to year, and therefore it is not true that this claim that you made in your debate is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68636	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68637	My friend Chicken, I know...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68638	Comrade Lenart, first I give you my word, and then you speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68639	Oh, Mr. Rainer, that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68641	Thank you very much. You're very kind. I know you're going shopping instead of your missus, so you know how much it's gathered in the store to pour your own car, so you know how much it's collected. I said that in a real sense, wages fell, not in what you said. Yes, they have grown something, but the real man for money gets much less. I hope you agree with me, colleague Chicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68642	Now they'll be speaking the esteemed representative of Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68643	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68644	Please, we can just shut up a little bit so that colleague Kekin can talk, hey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68645	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, respected MPs and MPs. Of course, in the health care division, it is obvious that the government's harsh failure to deal with reconstruction, even when there are so many important parts of reconstruction as the restoration of health institutions. Last night, in preparation for the debate, I sent messages to colleagues from other Zagreb hospitals who died more than 18 months ago, and also to colleagues from the Sisak hospital who died more than 10 months ago asking them what their capacities were and how their departments and their clinics function. I'll read you some answers. Bye! A little patched up the suits where the bush fell, everything that got the red and yellow sticker was off-line. We're moving into a new pavilion and we're working with half the beds we used to. Both internal buildings are empty and reconstruction has not yet begun. Sisak. Then ophthalmology. The whole floor's closed. Derma of 21 beds 10 usable. In addition, they have received a solution that both buildings are for demolition, but the same has not yet begun. Wine town. As far as pulmology itself is concerned, of the 4 floors are functionally 3 with the fact that on the first floor there are fewer beds than before plus until the opening of this last covid department and the floor of surgery was out of function, now they quickly got him for covid. But it's still a coma, there's no infrastructure, there's no toilet. Jordanian. On Rebr, I repeat myself after more than 18 months and continue to push clinics from Shalata that have been moved to Rebro, in any case the tight areas of the clinic because the vast part of the Rebra is taking over the covid section with the trend of expansion. So, in the midst of the world's greatest health crisis that we witness back more than 100 years. Croatian healthcare does not function in an extended way as it should in spatial capacity, not to function in at least the way they were before the pandemic, but functions in significantly narrowed spatial capacities. On this side, it's really scandalous and it's really devastating that out of the 444 million are scheduled to withdraw from the Solidarity Fund to rebuild health institutions, 400 million were not spent. So, we'll wait for a while to rebuild the hospitals. In addition, this is a good opportunity to comment once again on the government's colossal failure to fight the pandemic, namely, it has a price that is not only health care but is certainly economic. The health care measure in human lives on this day is 9,331, and economics is measured in millions, literally hundreds of millions of kunas. So, people who end up in a hospital if they have an easier form of hospitalization, their treatment will cost several tens of thousands of kuna, while those who end up in intensive care, who end up on respirators, who end up don't give God on the ECMO that we've heard enough about these days, is their treatment measured in hundreds of thousands of kunas. So if we know that vaccination greatly reduces the chance of hospitalisation, for a severe form of disease, and, of course, for the fatal outcome, then we know very well that the vacculation of this population is greater then we would save indeed hundreds of millions of kuna except human lives. And these are the only ones at the first easily visible and easy cost numbers, followed by the costs of all those abandoned patients who, due to the tense health system, fail to reach their doctors, diagnostics and treatments. Here again closes the cold plants of hospitals, following the costs of inadequately monitored chronic diseases, following the costs of under-prevention and late detection of malignancies. This price will also be paid in billions of kunas, and besides that in human lives. So in human lives and billions of kunas, Croatian citizens and citizens will pay for the policy of non-responsibility, double criteria policy, non-consistencies policy, policy of maintaining ratings. That's the most important lesson in this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68646	We have two replicas, stay, please, colleague Kekin. He is the first respected representative of Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68647	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Kekin, when you're reading social media comments, you should read more seriously the government's documents. When you mentioned Sisak, you should have read the information of the Ministry of Health that invested more than 132 million kunas in building a united hospital reception and emergency hospital reception. The Central Hospital Pavilion in Sisak. When we talk about the infrastructure in which this government has invested that on the periphery, the edges, so out of the metropolis, the health system rises in light years then it would be much more useful than reading comments from social networks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68648	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68649	Dear Representative Chicken, since we're already giving lessons, you might want to wash your ears a little bit, so you'd better listen. These are not comments from social networks, these are comments from my colleagues and my fellow doctors and doctors I personally know and who have told me what conditions they are working on. So the mammal hospital still doesn't work at the rate in which it functioned before the earthquake and is not restored. So all the red and yellow stickers standing there still don't work. These are simply facts despite your praises to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68650	My colleague Piletić, you have done a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in which the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68651	The Rules of Procedure have been injured, so in insulting so-called common sense, the vice president by her colleague Kekin. So the absolute government of the Republic of Croatia invested in the health system in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County before the earthquake did not wait for disasters, it did not wait for natural disasters, but systematically invested in the health system, people were enabled and the service of magnetic resonance and everything... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68652	All right, fellow Chicken, you know it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's the abuse of the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning, and from now on, I won't let anyone finish it, but I'll give him a second and a third warning, just so we all know in advance. ... [[Intruder Chicken: Of course I know Vice President.]] We'll all do the same, I treat everyone exactly the same, but I'm warning you in advance that I won't allow it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't yell. You got something to tell me maybe? Then you'd better keep your mouth shut. Therefore, I ask you nicely, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, we work neatly, normally, politely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Glavasevic, you insist on further harming the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68653	Well, Mr. Vice President, I wanted to warn you that he did not call his colleague Piletic on an article in which the Rules of Procedure was injured, but Your firm leadership only leaves me to thank you for your reaction and for supporting the Rules of Procedure of HS. [[Intruder Reiner: That's why he got a warning and please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68654	Thank you very much, but you haven't even called for an article, so you'll get a warning when we're calling a member. And now we're going seriously, the Honorable Representative Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68655	I'll go along with the commendation of my colleague Kekin, but I agree with you on the renewal, but it could be three specific questions. You are sitting in the City Assembly of Tomašević attacked Bandić all the time why the General Hospital "Holy Spirit" did not leave it to the state. Will you leave the “Holy Spirit ” to the State? Secondly, there are 54 psychiatrists at the psychiatric clinic on 50 beds, almost anyone in Sweden, and waiting lists are getting bigger and bigger, and now I've been on your website. And third, is it because your clinic is connected to the Psychic Medicine Clinic, will you support that merger, is that what you want, is that a good idea, and will you support all the good ideas and reforms?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68656	Dear representative Kekin. Easy, easy, I'll give you my word first. Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68657	Thank you, thank you. I'm in a hurry to answer three questions. So, Your Honor, I'm going to stay here and you're like some sleeping beauty, so our clinics joined up a little while ago, and I think she's almost two years old. ... So I think how do I tell you at that clinic that I don't even work anymore because I'm here at City Hall, so the clinics are connected, otherwise for your information at the Psychology and Psychological Medicine clinic, five years ago more than 20 finished specialists went back, which also speaks about the care of this government's health care, back five years more than 20 specialists who are abroad, which is in private practice, which is here and in the assembly so that there are definitely no more than beds, except in this situation right now for the reason that the psychiatric clinic has been turned into a covid ward for over a year. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, literally, patients can't be treated on Rebr but must not be treated at the state hospital where their doctors were but moved to the city hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68658	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, so the next one will be a respected representative, Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68659	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with Associates. I will, of course, vote against this budget rebalance, I guess that's clear to you, but I also didn't sign a proposal for a question of your trust because I think it's that you're the last man to leave the government, so I didn't sign it. There's a whole playad before you, a whole playad. So, fine, you've been patiently listening all day and you've really been doing the only reform that's called financial reform. Is she clear to the end and we can discuss it. So I left what I wrote there, but I know about what I'm going to tell you. Health reform, you said very nicely, you quoted Peru Jurkovic as not telling him your name, and I will say because I appreciate that man when you said there is no money that health care can spend. And I'm going to quote you one of my friends from America who taught me a problem that can be solved by money is not a problem. Do you agree? It's hours of work, you go into credit, we as natural persons, you sell some bonds, you get in charge, you refinance, and here there are three psychiatrists, there are a dozen doctors who best know that a problem that can be solved money is not a problem and a lot of problems would be solved. You gave up your rule today, Mr. Secretary, you said you weren't answering hypothetical questions to the Condicionals, but you did open your PowerPoint, and you said there was no covid that the deficit would be 6%. The same three questions as my colleague Kekin who answered only one thing. First, if the health reform that was stopped by the Oreshkovic government that separated the hospitals that I, my smallness, combined because we love Croatia, work for better clinical outcomes, is it dangerous to treat in some departments where there is only one doctor who operates once every two months, it is simply dangerous. It's dangerous to have a baby in a hospital where there's a gynecologist 78 years old, just dangerous. What do you think that's been going on these six years, what would be the budget deficit? The second question, the same government of Tim Oreshkovic, has stopped the united public procurement, so I mean what did colleague Vrkljan say, what do you think the budget deficit would be if the combined public procurement continued these six years? Google the example when I was Minister of Cytostatics we saved 120 million kunas on a combined purchase, on a cast. You know what a cast is? Hand fracture, almost a million euros, almost a million euros. And then Bandic, of course, did not give the General Hospital "Holy Spirit", and now his colleague Tomaševic will hand over "Holy Spirit" because he should come, should come under the state's hat, he simply needs to come and it is good in this reform recommended by Minister Beros. I would like to hear about the proposed health reform, is it true, this is what Boris Lalovac was talking about very nicely inadmissible that the finance minister simply leaves it to someone else. You may not have the authority, you may need to extend your powers, but you know best what your powers are. Someone says if you can't measure, same smart, much smarter man than me, you can't manage. I'll repeat, if you can't measure, you can't operate. When I was Minister of the Ministry of Health and the HZZO's budget was 22 billion, which Boris was talking about, it is now 38 billion. Well, you guys were great on the Health Committee. You were great at talking. Less surgery, less examinations, less everything, more expenditure. Mr. Minister, our home is only one, not the European Union is not a county, not watching Vrkljana, Lika, our home is Croatia. If you love Croatia, I know you like it, go to health reform. This is just more unsustainable, absolutely unsustainable and there are really good things in the proposed reform, and there are catastrophic things, right? There are really disastrous things, and we'll see what's finally coming out of it. But here, I'd like you to answer these two questions, so what would happen if you were already breaking the rules, and as far as the other points are concerned, I totally consider it if there's no new news about your recalling my vote, of course, won't win.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68660	Comrade Ostojić, do we have a replica of the respected representative of Vrkljan?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68661	Your Honor, I prefer the truth more than anything, so I'm going to take the opportunity to talk about the health issue at the moment, where I'm very critical, and I told the minister that he has to intervene much more in that system, but I'd also like you to publicly read it to me because here on my right and your left I haven't heard it in the last few years. You were part involved in the reform, one project of the hospital in Koprivnica when the World Bank retired and withdrew 30 million dollars for saying that it was a money laundromat and that experiment had infamously failed. So the problem of health care is not this government, it's not Minister Berosa, it's much longer, but I think your colleagues should know that part of the health system when it didn't work, for objectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68662	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68663	Well, the health system is a complex system. Inflation, we see inflation, it's mostly one-digit, it's a health cost growth for twenty years, when I was first at Harvard they taught me inflation was in America 1.2, and then it was 9 and they made a show of it because it's past 10, show of it, but that's America, that's the second thing, right, so it's taking a long time. Comrade Vrkljan, you're right. You know, it's easy to have an ex-post mind, so the united emergency hospital receptions are great, here it is gone, remembers Bačić, a colleague of the mayor of Vukic, I don't know his name, a Karlovac, a great man who really, at the meeting now was a minister said I was born in Ogulin, my children, but I don't let them be born, my grandchildren in Ogulin. And he wanted to connect under quotes functionally and physically Ogulin and Karlovac because he loves his county, because he was afraid to get a grandson in Ogulin. Here's the mayor, if you can hear my ex.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68664	Now she will speak to a respected representative, Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68665	I thank the chairman. I will still here in my debate now, in fact read the parts of the position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which here is the lady, the President of the Commission, Grozdana Peric, drawn up and addressed the opinion on this budget rebalancing. So the Committee agrees with this amendment, but as many times as so far, it has highlighted the need for better planning and control of expenditure, especially in the health care system. So it's said many times so far, the same things are recommended. Furthermore in the report, the fact is that government projections are more than 9% of growth and more than projections of other relevant institutions, and points out the need for a more conservative approach when drawing up projections for the next period. So the report itself says government projections are a little overly optimistic. Furthermore, the need for better predicting certain items such as expenditure on employees and pensions and particularly expenditure on health care is repeatedly highlighted. It is said that they are often originally planned at unrealistically low levels to increase subsequent changes. So in this entire report it is constantly mentioned that health care is actually a problem and the problem is the costs that are expenditures that are increasing, and are not related to the consequences of the pandemic, such as expenditure again for employees and pensions. It is also said that the state budget, a deficit to be recorded at 19.7 billion or 4.7% of GDP, is a significant deterioration compared to earlier planned. Finally, it is said that the concept of intergenerational solidarity, which transfers the costs of current consumption to future generations, would be desirable in this respect to undertake certain reform procedures, while not jeopardising the basic settings of already implemented pension reforms and again calling for all of this to apply to the reform of the health system in a way that does not generate additional losses that have been sustained year after year in the subject of the rebalance of the state budget. So here's the whole position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy in a way that is very critical of this rebalancing. I am finally wondering how many of these recommendations and calls for reforms of the health system should be issued before we call for the responsibility of the Minister of Health. So here and at the last rebalancing, it was very similar, either to this position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy and in June, so at the first rebalancing, here we are now repeating it here. Here I will do a few things if I have a few more minutes, a few details from, therefore, the data from other Croatian waters, Croatian roads and highways, some questions that can be answered, let's say, the Adriatic plum, so we don't see whether there was anything in the plan to prevent harmful effects of water and flood prevention in Croatia's waters, although in 2020 there were more serious threats, you saw Vrgorac, urban agglomeration of Split, Like and Gorski Kotar, so if there are any plans, there is any indication that in the next period there could be work on some projects that link and the prevention of disasters or harmful activities of water with the needs of development and green and blue infrastructure. In Croatian highways one interesting item is 20 million for incentive severances and lost litigation from the Labour Act. For Croatian roads, therefore, one question is whether they are considering improving and maintaining the existing and building future transport infrastructures, for example, construction of cycling trails and trails for other personal E vehicles which are part of the establishment of a system of sustainable mobility, transport safety and the development of an integrated tourist offer. So far, this has not been included in the programmes and there are any plans in the future. Here are some questions that should be... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68666	Thank you very much, the next speaker Bojan Glavasevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary, he's been very well outside, his associates and his fellow ministers in that case. The budget is always a matter of priority at the end of the day. Before I say anything about what these priorities are that are visible from what we've got, I'd just like to say that we're actually again, the documentation we received and that we've been studying again was cabbage. So I don't know why it's so hard to send documents in some kind of format that's readable and it's searchable, which is kind of more transparent. In fact, I want to think that because someone in the ministry is doing it because it's always done so, and they don't know that there are better ways to do it, and I won't assume that, even though I might have reason to do it on purpose and that it's not an emergency for MPs and MPs in the Croatian Assembly to deliver these documents in some format that would be more transparent and transparent. So here, if this criticism can be received in some way benevolently, then for some future budgets, for future rebalancing, I would ask you to consider the possibilities for it to be a little bit better prepared after all. So the budget is always a matter of priority. I've drawn some items that may have been a little less word today, which shows that actually priorities aren't like that, they're not good in my opinion. Uh, let's start with the government. So support here are several items: support for the fight against hate crimes has been reduced more than double, now more than 35,000 kn to just below 15,000 kn, plan, national human rights protection plan from 74,500 kn to a little over 35,500 kn, the fight against discrimination with 2 million and 360, and change thousands of kuna reduced to zero. These are all things we don't need obviously. In Croatia, national minorities are not victims of hate attacks, are not discriminated against. LGBT people don't experience attacks and hate crimes, we haven't had a chance to read headlines in the paper about how scary things happened this summer to LGBT people. Mark's square wasn't eventually fenced today because of the hate crimes that some of us have characterized here, and the Prime Minister ended up having elements of terrorism. The fight against poverty from the miserable 13,500 kn provided for in that item to zero. In the Department of Defence, development of cyber capability is reduced from 7.8 million kuna to 4.3. That's the item we colleagues and colleagues from my club have proposed to increase, and I think after all the stories about the hybrid wars we've had the same opportunities to listen to, about hacking elections, about how this is a priority in the EU at the end of the day, it's shrinking, those funds seem not spent. So the future of war isn't kinetic and I know that planes are important and I won't say that they're not, but there's a huge imbalance, you're free of planes if some 14-year-old from North Korea, China or Russia hacks everything that's important to you so that those birds can fly at all, think about it. And at the very end, the biggest, one of the biggest losers of this rebalancing is the Ministry of Defense. There they were cut to me by over 60 million kunas and the Homeland War Memorial Center in Vukovar, psychosocial empowerment, extra-institutional care, veterinary centres, digitization of home war buildings. So, colleagues and colleagues, I mean, I have to ask you if a major blow to the defenders is this, a single cut or one column that's been talked about too much these days, and also with a curse in the title. She says she's American.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68668	The following will be spoken by a respected representative, a respected representative, a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68669	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, it is evident that from the debate of the majority, so to speak, those present are called the opposition that the biggest problem of this budget is the unplanned increase or growth of the expenditure side of the budget. The revenues are slightly better than the plan that was first changed in June 2021, our expenditures have actually increased to 173 billion kuna or nearly 19 billion kuna, which is being created in the state budget, which in two years, so the last two years under the bat of Minister Marić has increased to nearly 50 billion kuna deficits. And that's the story of this rebalancing. So what we can definitely be concerned about is that when you talk about rebalancing you're talking about and you're actually looking at budget projections for next year for 2023/2024, which is actually going to be frozen expenditure on this one I'm going to tell some point that's scheduled by another budget rebalance of 173 billion kuna, which means that it's going to be through transfers from the state budget, either through HZZO, actually, the entire health system has less than 6 and a half billion kuna, so 21 billion kuna should fall to some 15 and a half, 16 billion kuna. Now you have on one side so-called. The reform of the health system and this whole budget, this whole budget rebalance is actually based on a health system where nobody here knows what the situation will be next year, or on the COVID crisis, or on the actual reforms of the health system itself. What we can only see is that there will be smaller transfers, which from the budget will probably not be the basic part of health care that respects but will be reduced in order to actually satisfy certain forms, so as far as Germany is concerned, we will call it Germany and where it could actually enable the introduction of the euro in 2023. On the other hand, you have one interesting piece of information from European auditors that Croatia is the last country, a member of the European Union that has been used, so I do not say only 49% of all EU funds. That's a fact. Now let's get back to one more side, Italy's worse, I see you're waving at me with a book, now it's another factual situation from this rebalancing that it's about 200 million kuna less for you to co-finance so-called. European components that can be 10%, 15%, 20%, so when you calculate it, you can come to that, so I'm going to say incompetence because the government is managing the state, in fact, Croatia has minimally damaged by 2 and a half to 3 billion kuna, which is almost 1% of GDP, and we could have increased 1% of GDP. So, if we grew more than 1%.../incomprehensible/... that's 4.2 million kuna, maybe this debt that will eventually pay back nearly 20 billion or 5% of GDP would be smaller, but it will need to be returned, as it will return. So either by rationalizing consumption or by some new taxes, by new taxes, so there is no other way, and it's all wonderful and it's all great and it's all perfect, and then we're looking at a little projection for 2022/2023, where we're relying again on most a) sources of European resources, which is commendable, b) probably for the same or similar tourist season, very likely, so we don't have other excessive sources. So it's just that we're spinning a vicious circle. So, we know that it's not easy in this troubled time to manage the Ministry of Finance, so we know that something is in order don't say that it's 8 billion kuna costs for the health system now, that it's over 40 billion kuna are our pension costs, our pension system and that there's no big one to say that there's some space for probably some management. But the challenge is also, you manage Croatia, HDZ manages Croatia along with some satellites, so you only have two systems that are health and pension. That's most of the budget and the rebalancing and everything. That's what it all comes down to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68670	We have one replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68671	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Hajdas-Doncic, 206 million kunas less co-financing of European projects, 58 million kunas less support in implementing rail sector projects and 41 million kunas less support in the sea, transport and infrastructure sector. As for these EU funds or co-financing, we have found that it is less than a billion and a half, two projects that would be co-financed. As you explain, then, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is always boasting about some kind of renaissance in transport infrastructure, mainly in rail infrastructure, and here it is giving up on the financing of such projects, giving up on EU funds and showing incompetence and exploitation, or the use of these funds, you said only 49% of the use yourself, the last country in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68672	Honorable representative of the Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68673	I repeat, so the difference between something that's agreed on is something else, and actually let's say laymanically realized. So we're definitely coughing for project implementation. So it's not just a matter of amounting or co-financing or the means themselves, so that's what's called a multiplier. People come, pay times spend something else, buy something else, increase personal consumption, explain very plastically. So,... the multiplier there is therefore according to those worst variants so the worst multiplier in road construction, on the railway is already a multiplier larger, so you just run that stopper speeded up the processes around the railroad you mentioned that one euro would actually be worth 1.4, 1.5 euros per certain research. So it's a missed opportunity, it's at least 1.5% less GDP than it's supposed to be, so none of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68674	Thank you. The next one will be spoke by a respected representative of Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68675	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. counterpart Hajdukovic said well today, the budget, and thus his rebalancing is a kind of political ID card of the government and the Ministry of Finance. So let's see what our government's identity card says and what's important for today's debate on the second budgetary rebalancing this year. First of all, it is necessary to reduce the fact that we are facing major and health and economic challenges, that times are challenging and it is not easy to predict what will be our welcome. But also in challenging times, even more is even more than otherwise necessary strategic thinking, determination and rationality, and we have a government of good luck leading us under the slogan "Safe Croatia". What would be the biggest investment in security at this point? It's health care, of course. I'm going to make a comparison now even though it might be some word that it's unrealistic and it's not for comparison, but I personally think that the model or approach to functioning is the same, so I'm going to compare a little bit of spending with spending, say, household spending. So if someone wants security in their home budget, so I don't think they'll decide to buy Mercedes high-class until they're even sure that the power will settle the loan war for additional health insurance. So somehow I see what our government has done. So at the time when the big drugstores from month to month threaten to stop medications, and the health care system that was without the covids was on air-conditioned feet, means with all the poor health conditions we decided to buy fighter planes. That's what I think it's like for a family like I said who's not sure that they're going to subdue the extra insurance war to order a new car because really those wars that we're going to pay for fighter planes could largely relieve a health debt that we know is not caused only by this pandemic and which isn't since yesterday, so it needs a concrete and strategic and deep approach. It's a topic that awaits us every year, and we're just going round and round and like we don't want to deal with this issue. Debt only increases from year to year, debts fly into the sky, and the parallel decreases both availability and service quality. That's what could have been balanced that we were thinking about the health care item as the main item in the budget which this way will approach how we look at it now remains a hole without a bottom or better to say an open hole. We simply shouldn't have allowed health debts to grow, to be questioned by the supply of drugs, and to buy aircraft of almost a billion euros. There are still many items to be discussed in this budget rebalancing, but I will only mention the Ministry of Education where the funds are reduced, although as I said this morning, Minister Maric we all know that the best supply for the future is investment in education. I will take this opportunity once again and mention the amazing example of hitchhiking, or say no to the implementation of the project of building OS for children with developmental difficulties in Brod-Posavina County, which has experienced a reduction of funds this year, means the fourth year in a row of construction funds are secured in the budget, and then with every rebalance at the end of the year, these funds are reduced and here they are actually cut off and the children and their parents remain cut off for a more quality full-quality approach to psychosocial education and education. I believe that the government operating under the slogan "Safe Croatia" and which says it is working on the stability of public finances as a basis for economic growth, I believe, however, that they have failed in a strategic rational forecast because here we spend more than we income each year, and to a large extent, the funds are not adequately allocated. I remind you that citizens expect the government to show the skills and determination to cut all unnecessary expenditures and to focus on the development of the economy and on social security, so I ask you to take care of this when making the budget for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68676	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Chiefs of the Ministry of Finance, no Minister, but less importantly, the man is here with us all day, so I'm going to start with him, and I'm going to start this debate with him. And as I listened to most of the parliamentary deputies whether they came from one side or the other, most of them agreed that Mr. Maric was a top financial expert, a man who manages well with public finances in these times that are neither great nor wonderful. Of course, finances always require more debate, and ultimately, the budget is a strategic document of each government, and so are these governments of Andrej Plenkovic, and the changes, changes and additions of budgets always cause public attention, so let me also say a few of my observations regarding the changes to this budget. I come from Slavonia, I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has found a space of 200 million kuna for agriculture, of which 100 million kuna will be allocated to our cattlemen. We know what is currently happening on the European market when it comes to cattle, I think that's good. Croatian waters will also receive a billion kuna more if we assume that practically all units of local self-government are doing agglomerations. Agglomerations are one of the preconditions for Croatia to be much better tomorrow than it is now, agglomerations have shown that this is something we absolutely need and this here is recognized through these changes of budget and a billion kuna is more. Of course, the main theme of this whole debate was health care, but I'm surprised that one part of the parliamentary representatives, and I'm sure you've had the chance to be somewhere outside of Croatia. I've had a chance to be unacquainted in America, Australia, Canada, and then I've seen what it means not to have health care. So when we come to America and when we land first, we'll give you everything, drink, eat, do whatever you want, but don't let us take you to the dentist, don't let us go anywhere because it costs a lot of money. Our health care is absolutely available to everyone, let's be honest. I was in the KBC in Osijek the other day in the department where they are being accepted, or where they are being raised, and there I saw a bunch of findings and I asked the lady who publishes how many finds are found in Croatia or in Osijek. 30%, so 30% is never raised, there's CTs magnets, there's all these expensive tests, and some of them haven't been able to come up and lift their findings, and it costs, it's got a high price at the end of the cost. Therefore, to make in health care those cuts that are necessary, absolutely support, welcome, but not experiment. We had experiments that didn't prove good, but one good way to rebuild Croatian healthcare is certainly good. After all, everyone is evil for some good, and possibly this epidemic, the pandemic has shown that some things could possibly be done. But what is safe and what no one here can dispute is that Croatia has health care, and that is what experts will have here. Mr Ostojić was the minister that we are among the five countries in the world as regards the availability of health care for every resident in the Republic of Croatia. It's something that's important for our people to hear this. What is also important units of local self-government are for you as craftsmen in entrepreneurship, these are the most tough parts of Croatia. And this budget law goes hand in hand to the units of local self-government and raises their censorship from 3 to 3.5%, which is very important to them, although it is 0.5% of what is taken up the entire collection is not harmless or small. So I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance absolutely Zdravko Marić, Prime Minister Plenkovic, who together with them is creating both the budget and the budget changes and is dealing adequately with this situation where we have found ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68678	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first of which is respected representatives of the Marine Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68679	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You mentioned the increase in funding in agriculture, it is of course commendable, and here you and I come from Slavonia and I believe that on a daily basis we hear a lot of comments from farmers and cattlemen, most of them all complaining and do not feel that they are in a good position. I say, it is commendable that the increase in funds not only this year, but as I remember last year, they were even more than 300 million, but somehow the situation from year to year is getting worse and worse, so the funds are increasing, and the situation in agriculture is getting worse. We are not self-sufficient by any product, we are definitely dependent on imports because our food prices are growing. The governor himself recently said when he was there that our food price depends on us because we're attached to imports, so here's your comment on it, so we're increasing resources, and the situation is getting worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68680	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68681	Thank you very much. Okay, well, I wouldn't agree with that, I think we're mantraing a mantra that's not accurate, and there's nowhere that she can statisticalally or in any other way find it, that we're investing more and more in agriculture, and that's less than agriculture, that's not true, that's not true. Look at the little numbers that's absolutely not true. What Croatia needs, in order for Croatia to be self-sufficient, is a little not a broad term but a very difficult word. Being self-sufficient in agriculture doesn't even work for countries that have much more processing surfaces than Croatia has. Croatia has a million and 200 thousand hectares of farmland, one Ukraine has only 5 million hectares of grain, corn and other war cultures not to talk. What needs to be done, of course, on floor warehouses, on silos to store grain at 6 months, and sold at 10 or 11 when the price is at least 20 or 30 times higher. It's... the development of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68682	The next replica is the respected representative of Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68683	Thank you very much. The minister said we also see in the rebalancing that the monetization, so the sale mentions shyly, is practically gone. Slavonica is your highway, you heard about those sea ideas a few years ago about the sale of highways, the monetization of highways and similar nonsense, what do you think of that? Would you sell your birthday boy? That's number one. And number two, tomorrow is the town of Koprivnica celebrating your day, fellow mayor, my former party colleague, he stayed there, celebrating his city and very supportive of his ideas, don't sell Podravka, obviously not in your next plan and I expect you to help me. By the way, as far as 30% of the unsolicited findings of his colleague Ivanovic are concerned, we from Rebra, Reiner and I send it by email, and we have zero. But the problem is next time ask your colleagues how many unnecessary exams are no. 1 and No. 2 How many tests are normal and you'll be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68684	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68685	Thank you very much. In addition to these ideas that Croatia's highways should be sold, they should be monotheized that the rest of Slavonics from Osijek to Beli Manastir and turn the border with Hungary into a peninsula and not make a highway were just some of the crazy ideas that were spinning even in this assembly would never have sold without roads or Croatian tourism recorded results that would not even be close to those that we now have if we hadn't built highways absolutely correct. As far as Podravka is concerned, it is, of course, the menagment that dictates the pace, which controls or does not control the system. Of course, we have problems that a large part of Croatia's rural space, we have a lot of people who are still not used on the Internet or on certain things, and that digitalisation of Croatia and availability need absolutely to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68686	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68687	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed colleague is Ivanovic, you said that Croatian health care is available to all. You are saying this in a situation where we are just receiving news that some hospitals are moving on cold drive, you are saying this in a situation that has been happening for the past two years that our most difficult patients who are not COVID patients are on hold, oncological patients and other severe patients cannot get the medical care they need. Therefore, I would ask you to comment on this current situation in which, due to the poor conduct of the pandemic crisis, we have again come to the situation that our hospitals are going to the cold drive, which we know means all the other severe patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68688	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68689	Thank you very much. Madam Reverend Raukar, you and I both know well that when I spoke about the availability of Croatian health care, I did not mean the situation that arose two months ago, three months or six months ago. This is a problem, it's a health problem that creates problems for both KBCs and all health institutions because it's difficult to adapt the mode of work with what we have when it comes to COVID 19, there's no speech, there's no magic wand. I was in that system, I know about what these people were up against, the first hospital to convert so that you could even receive covid patients and everything else. And it's not easy for them, these people need to understand. But when I said about the availability of health care, I thought about what really is in Croatia. Health care is available, is available and is not too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68690	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68691	Thank you. A respected colleague and Minister Maric today admitted that no serious structural reform was made, so I listed some areas where it should have been done because this replica was short, and he added several more. So, on this point nothing has been done besides that we haven't turned to the market economy either, the state is still the manager, unfortunately a bad master where it shouldn't be, and the key things we've left behind. So no serious state leaves behind such energy, such as telecommunications, or even the banking system. We have this situation with INA where we now have the Supreme Court ruling that in fact, in a corrupt way there has been a takeover of management rights. He asked his colleague, Mr. Bačić's Bull, I ask you, will you go to the end of that contract, because the DORH says he's waiting for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68692	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68693	Thank you very much. Here I am preparing for this item of the agenda and listening to the distinguished gentleman of the Ministry of Finance. So, when you look at the incomes of the economy and especially from exports, that is, of course, from consumption, there is a 9% growth if, if I am not mistaken, which will say that the Croatian economy is still working, it is bothered, of course, as all reforms absolutely who would say that reforms should never be implemented, not only in health but in other segments of society, and as far as these other issues are concerned, I, when I may have the opportunity to manage the system, will give you answers to these questions. So far, I can't be anybody's sitter so I can say what would happen if it were.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68694	A colleague of the Grmoi was injured by the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68695	So he's hurt. 238. It is clear to a colleague that you are part of the ruling majority and you are the ones who can run an annulment because it is MOL in one corrupt way... [[Agreement: A fellow Grmoje to...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68696	On the basis of Article 239, I give you a reminder that is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Based on Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words. Watch out for the third you won't be able to speak. Don't immediately I told you at the beginning when I came, don't abuse the institution's injury to the Rules of Procedure, no one, on either side. Others have already received warnings, so don't take any chances. Dear Representative Glavasevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Ivanovic, in your debate, you said that and you are not the only one who said that today or something like that that there is every evil for some good, so the crisis has shown us that they are something like weaknesses and so on. I think it's quite a difficult thing for me to say and hear, because I'd say that if there was anything crisis that we knew from before, that's all some structural flaws that were talked about here, on both sides of the assembly. So I wouldn't say it's something new, and if anything else I'd prefer the crisis has shown that we've made progress somewhere compared to that and that we've been more resistant in some segments, and it seems to me that all I see these days and, and, and, and this crisis for the last two years, we've shown that we've been really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, So I'm not sure it's very good, and here you would disagree with your thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68699	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68700	It is a well relative term and can be observed from an objective and subjective angle. What must be the wealth of the Croatian health system, they are people. It's people, it's doctors, doctors, medical staff who have shown that they can cope with the greatest challenges today. That they don't know what he's up against or what he's up against. So that's what matters. On these savings, things, mergers, I think everyone will be happy and overjoyed to keep more money for other things, but not at the cost of leaving people without health care, today many watch American series, America is a lot of role models, but would not like to be a role model in health when it comes to basic health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68701	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68702	My dear colleague, you are in your debate the only thing you have praised is 100 million agriculture and a billion kunas with water buildings. For water buildings, it's only the government's projection that's going to happen this year. These are the funds that we get more or less from Europe, and at the same time we haven't used more than 2 billion funds from Europe related to earthquakes, health, science, etc. But what's my question to you today is we're practically talking about 15 billion increases in this country's costs between 1.1 this year and 1.11. My question to you, where did that 15 billion go and what did the citizens get for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68703	Dear Representative Ivanovic I beg you if you can let your colleague Ivanovic speak, please. [[I'm in...]] If you have any conversations to conduct colleague Totgergeli, if you have any conversations to conduct please don't here, please welcome, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68704	Thank you very much. This will be over soon. When I was talking about 100 million kunas, it wasn't 100 million kunas for agriculture and a billion dollars for water buildings that I was saying from the perspective of a member of the Committee on Agriculture, so I had the opportunity today to hear the leaders of both the Ministry and the Croatian Waters, and I think that's good. After all, for me, my end is something that is most important, of course, with everything the other MPs have said when it comes to keeping jobs. Of course, most of that cost will go for, for health care, and there is absolutely no speech. But what matters is that sometimes it bothers me a little bit, and I'm done with it. Overall today he was a man who runs the European Court of Auditors, so 46% of the unused funds remain for the whole EU. So Croatia does not lag behind what counterpart Doncic said. Very little for 2 percentage points, but if we assume that we have only entered the EU in 2013 Then we are on average the same EU. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68705	Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68706	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will look back at this debate of the individual on budget rebalancing in the area of culture. So in two major disasters, meaning earthquakes and floods, epidemics and earthquakes, forgive me, culture is certainly one of the sectors that have suffered the greatest negative effects of these crises. In researching the effects of the Covida-19 pandemics and the earthquakes on the cultural sector in the Republic of Croatia that have been jointly conducted by Culture's new and the Ministry of Culture have established the vulnerability of the culture sector. In particular, the vulnerability of self-employed, temporary employees, part-time employees and other non-standard forms of work, as well as profitable and non-profit organisations in the private and civil sectors which have no institutional support provided are already left to the project logic and dynamics of the market. Therefore, it is known that independent artists and cultural workers have received letters and 4 months of support in these 20 months of crisis. 3 at the very beginning of the epidemic and one in January this year on a petition of cultural workers. The ministry has justified this injustice against all economic operators who used support to overcome the epidemic crisis, meaning survival was justified by the launch of competitions involving independent artists, cultural workers and civil society organisations. Therefore, it concerns and worries the data that the items of the operational programme are operational human potentials reduced by half the amount. With 73 million, 73 million 300 grand on just 34 million 470 grand. The second part of the culture programme was stopped in the centre, and the competition on the line, the culture on the line that was supposed to be the support that the wider circle of independent culture actors was not spent until the planned amount of the item was reduced from 20 million to 11 and 800, so almost by half. We welcome an increase in the measure of support to the cultural sector due to the outbreak of the coronary virus by 9 and a half million, so from 18 and 600 to 28 and 200, but it is not precise how these measures will be implemented. So, will it be a new competition that does not again include all the necessary from an independent scene, or will finally and independent artists receive monthly support and we strongly advocate to correct injustice and finally give support to both the artistic and cultural sectors as well as to the entire economy so far. And please, Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're back, in that sense, to personally advocate artists and culturers because I hope you'll hear me even indirectly, thank you. In addition to this major problem of culture and cultural workers and artists who have been on the knees of Mr. Minister for 20 months, and even worse than that have been brought to the very edge of poverty and existence, I would also look back on insufficient concerns about film heritage, particularly films on celloid tape that are irrevocably failing unless they are urgently restored. I have already spoken of this twice in free speech and the rate of restoration of two films per year only to guarantee that most of the Croatian film classics will be irrevocably ruined. In this budget rebalancing, of course, it is not visible whether the funds for this are overlooked, also of course in the budget projections for '22. and '23. But I am taking the opportunity in this debated rebalancing to strongly advocate, on behalf of the film community and the entire cultural community, and please, and the Ministry of Culture and you personally, Mr. Minister, in the 2022 budget, certainly provide for funds for the restoration of Croatian film classics on the cellolide strip, thus saving from irrevocable destruction. These are not large funds compared to many other items, not to mention aircraft, to save films it takes 15 million kunas and we simply have to save Croatia's classic movie from collapse if we want to consider ourselves a civilised European state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68707	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68708	Thank you. Comrade Rauhar, so you said here and mentioned how the budget should be redistributed. You were talking about culture and what's at your heart, but you said one word at the plane, notor aircraft. So why do you think in this time of general uncertainty, instability in particular if we take the situation in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia is concerned with some kind of notorious move? I'd like you to explain that a little bit. I understand that the Croatian budget is not so generous that we have money for everything we want. I believe more should be invested in culture and Croatian film and more. Well, here's an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68709	The Honored Representative Rauhar Gamulin. [[Rauhar Gamulin's intruder: Yes, I'd love to, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68710	Thank you, thank you. Yeah, why did I say "notor aircraft" because the planes have already been mentioned so many times with a 999 million figure, I don't know what else we're living in in a situation where we're living in a crisis as we see epidemics and earthquakes that have occurred, which in one part of this country really have brought into an invisible situation, and I think and I agree with all those who think that getting a plane at this point shouldn't be a priority. What should be a priority as far as defense is concerned is a cyber area which, unfortunately, as far as I've been able to track down has a reduction in, say, this rebalancing, and I think it should have an increase, unlike a plane.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68711	The following will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68712	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here this debate is somehow marked by just more health care and this covid crisis, so I agree with all of you, the covid crisis is primarily the biggest health problem and especially at this time when we see figures that are wild. I am also taking this opportunity to invite all of our citizens who have not been vaccinated yet to be vaccinated, and all those who have been vaccinated long ago to be vaccinated with a third dose, and that will certainly help the health system. But it is precisely the covid crisis that is primarily a health crisis that is both economic and financial, and as such also marks all discussions on the budget and last year and this year our finance minister is not easy in a small country like Croatia, which is the last one that has entered the European Union, and in those two years, we have been hit by two earthquakes so that we can say that he must almost be a bit of a magician. However, all that the Ministry of Finance did well from 2016 to 2019 was just a prerequisite that it could react well at the beginning of this covid crisis. So when we look, and there were a lot of public debt stories today during the debate, it was this public debt from 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 that was a percentage fall in the amount of GDP, but not only in percentage, it fell in the absolute values of those years, and that was what was a good prerequisite that at the beginning of the crisis the government could react as it reacted, brought measures and assistance to entrepreneurs in saving jobs. And then, regardless of what has often been criticised and criticised, and many times here in the Assembly debated whether the government should be giving direct funds to private entrepreneurs, but sometimes it takes something and invested to get it back to you, and exactly what the government has been doing all this time during the covid crisis is just coming back now through GDP growth this year, and it's coming back through a good tourist season, and it's coming back to us in percentage points that public debt is falling within the GDP. So it goes down by 4.2%, GDP rises by 9%. Thus, everything the government has done during these two years at the time of the covid crisis now in some way and through the figures is shown to have been hit well. However, as I come from Bjelovarko-Bilogor County and how this rebalancing and this debate marked with health, I have to say something about the General Hospital of Bjelovar, which was in charge of 199 million kuna at the time of the last mayor, and without being provided with funds to repay these debts and that this hospital could function as much as it could, as a fire measure, and then, if the hospital works well then, the health system in the county can somehow work. I submitted an amendment to the Bjelovar General Hospital where they need about 2 million and 55,000 kuna in this year so they can survive at all by the end of the year, what was left for them by the former county government, and there's no place to cover it. So I think it is necessary and it is necessary for you to ever raise the health system within the county or raise it or try to bring it closer to the standard that has been developed throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68713	We have a replica of Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68714	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My dear colleague, you said that Mr. Minister managed financially this crisis in an epidemiological manner, but what Mr. Minister cannot manage this crisis alone and because of his poor leadership, because of the failures of the headquarters, we are now in a situation of this kind of terrible number, which of course means the burden of the hospital sector, which, of course, means the consequences of the economy and that this headquarters worked better for both vaccination and adherence to measures, we certainly wouldn't come to such a financial situation that the epidemic is already costing us 40 billion, and apparently because of the high numbers will cost us much more, so please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68715	Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68716	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I've analyzed the work of headquarters in detail, and I have to admit, I don't agree with you at all. I didn't find those decisions that the headquarters made and that they were wrong. From the beginning when we knew absolutely nothing about the epidemic, the measures of the headquarters were valid, fast. The whole government made decisions on time and just the way they were supposed to be. I took part in discussions and in 2020 in this assembly about it and when we had to move out of this building because of the earthquake. The opposition has always criticised the measures. It was later shown that these measures were just in time and were certainly for the rescue of the economy and surely these results and the tourist season and GDP growth of 9% compared to last year would not have been now if this particular headquarters, government and ministries had not done this job in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68717	Now let's go to the closing words. First, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marin Mandaric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68718	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here after a full day's debate, united under three points of order is to be a little bit resumed. We also heard the introduction from the promoters and the club debate, a lot of individual debates, which was somehow expected. The colleagues on this side of the assembly simply, and that is so, there is no draft budget and rebalancing that would satisfy them. On the other hand, and on this side of the assembly, of course, we defend our government's proposal, our ministry. Rebalans, actually a reflection of the situation today, but also a reflection of the dynamics of events throughout the year, actually brings us to change and supplement the budget for this year, in fact, by rebalancing we go to revenue of 153 billion kuna, to expenditures of more than 173 billion kuna to increase the deficit, it goes to almost 4.7%... to 4.5. We also detected the main specifics of this rebalancing, the increase in detachment for the defence of the 2.4 billion kuna, for the salaries of some over 900 million kuna, for health care about a billion and a half kuna, the growth of pensions slightly over 600 million kuna, for job conservation measures over 600 million kuna, for agriculture over 200 million kuna. As far as income is concerned, we are looking forward to an expected increase in VAT revenue by more than 2.5 billion kuna of our highest and most important budgetary revenue. So things are going better, we're getting out of the crisis, that's what the GDP projection says, almost 9% for this year, and we're actually very quick to cancel those effects of crisis, pandemic, lockdown years to put it that way. Employment is held at satisfactory levels, the unemployment rate is also expected to record a certain decline. The share of debt in GDP is decreasing, despite the rise in public debt, but what is the most important share of debt in GDP decreases to 83.1% although we are not below the desired 60%, but the reduction or dynamics of public debt reduction is at a satisfactory level and we meet those rules. With the conclusion that the HDZ Club will support a report on the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of this year, amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget and amending and supplementing the budget for 2021. The message just here and the encouragement and the Ministry of Finance headed by the minister, just so you keep moving forward, and all that we heard today is actually on the other side of the pay phone, and that's just like that, let's just say it has to be. Those in charge, the most responsible for leading the state for responsible financial management, I am convinced that they know their jobs and that we will bring a peaceful end this year as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68719	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68720	Thank you. Finally, there should be some conclusions, implications likely, but many questions are being answered by Minister Maric today, ha, trying to answer some questions, which, ha, also concern budget rebalances, and budget projections for the following year and for that plus 1, plus 2. So it is not answered to the question of the rebalancing, why this government is not and when it will implement reforms, it has been economically timid to answer some questions, what will happen to inflation, and how it is thought to be asked about inflation. Of course, there are excise issues, especially what we of the SDP have proposed, as regards fuel prices, these are swimming or floating excise duties and, of course, the key question of how he thinks about solving the problem, the question, however you want, of the health system, not to endanger the health of citizens, because it is obvious that his colleague Willi Beros does not know or is unable to do so. It will therefore finally vote against budget rebalancing with or without the SDP's Club of Representatives. I'm going to highlight a few more key things that have made us so worried, so it's a lack of control of the spending side and a rise in the overall deficit, i.e. debt, i.e. Almost 5% of GDP is missing if we include local, so to speak. Regional self-government, debt of the general state. After that, 200 million kunas that were thrown into the wind and were not done, included, were made as regards reconstruction in the districts that suffered from the earthquake. And of course there are about 200 million kunas of unused Croatian, so to speak, components for co-financing of different EU projects, which contributed to, therefore, some damage of 2.5 billion to 3 billion kuna. For all these reasons and the reasons that are stated, therefore, the SDP Representatives' Club will vote against the budget rebalancing proposal for this year, because we do not believe that it is well managed by the expenditure side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68721	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68722	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A lot of things are said, a lot of things I've said, and I've said, a lot have been said by my colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democrats Club, I'm not going to repeat myself, I'm just going to say that a good master is characterized by good management. And expenses and incomes. The revenues happened, the more I said they happened, the less they planned, the less the expenses weren't planned, that's what could have been planned. And at the end of the day, we have the budget as we have it. We have dealings with the most important and very challenging situations in front of Croatian society, economy, state, if you will, as we have. Very unquality, very non-transparent, very inefficient at the end of the day. Because what's controversial in the end is how taxpayers' money is spent, how all our money is spent, so we all pay taxes here, but of course our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who look at us and who choose us here are paying taxes and they have the right to know how their tax money is spent. Inefficient, inefficient and unplanned. That's how I would sum up this whole story. And that is why and for the reasons that my colleagues and colleagues have brought to the debate, as I personally do, we will not support this budget rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68723	On behalf of the Centre and Vosa Representatives Club, the next one will end up speaking to the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68724	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's after the whole day's debate goes to its end. This is the second budget rebalance this year. What will certainly be an interesting debate will be a debate about the very budget that follows us in three to four weeks. We all referred to the same things. There's this curse that tells you, God made you live in interesting times. So, we can't complain that we don't live in interesting times, just like Minister Maric, has just left, but I'm sorry, I just thought you were leaving, but you're so quick that I didn't notice it, but believe it or not I don't need to praise a minister who sits with us neatly all day, who listens carefully to what we say and in this government we have different ministers, so to be gentle, Minister Maric certainly does not adorn what adorns our prime minister and a number of other ministers, haughtiness and indiscretion. He sits there neatly, trying to give answers to everything we ask, another pair of freaks is whether we are satisfied with these answers or not, but Minister Maric respects parliamentary representatives and answers really very carefully and very structured and very professionally to our questions. The characteristics of this rebalancing can really be said in a few sentences. First, it shows that this Corona somehow discovered all of the weakest points of our health system, which the health system really is, and it hasn't been since yesterday, but this Corona showed the extent of not managing the health system. The same way this budget rebalancing shows through the figure that we have been warning about for some time, which is that from the restoration beyond the earthquake that hit the city of Zagreb and the two counties, Zagrebačka and Krapina-Zagorska, i.e. the area of Banovina, there is nothing. That renewal doesn't exist, I have to repeat something that I stress every time and say, that restoration is a disgrace to this prime minister and this government because the restoration is not going. So the numbers show a lot more than all of our words. In doing so, it is not the law or the amendments to the law because, in principle, when it comes to public buildings, we have no problem or ownership, nor do we have problems with elaborate and grounding, nor do we have a legalisation or legalisation problem, the reconstruction of public buildings should have gone regardless of the Rehabilitation Act. The third thing is that reforms don't live on Mark's square across the street. Then when the reforms don't live in Mark's square across the street, they don't even come to this assembly. You always need to turn some trouble into an opportunity, I was deeply convinced that the earthquake would turn into an opportunity, I was deeply convinced that somewhere there last fall would start to rebuild and that it would really show up through the budgets or through those revenue items. That's not gonna happen. So the period that these should be used for reforms, no reform is simple, every reform is painful, and everyone will be declarative for reforms, but not in my backyard. There is no reform, there is no renewal, which are health problems that no one can answer. Minister Maric listens neatly to everything that is in this government I would say is someone else's fault. But there's something that's at this point that we really need to take seriously. This census will show that we are around 3 million and 800 in Croatia, if we make it to 4 million I think we will, that's almost impossible. Everyone who deals with it and who knows something about it is talking about 3 million and 800. We urgently need a excessive strategy of demographic recovery or development of the Republic of Croatia and this is one topic that should be discussed in this assembly because then it is a question of who will fill the budgets, but if we are not ready for this strategy and this debate then we should be ready for a strategy for hiring foreigners, hiring people who seek asylum, hiring others. And that strategy is also one of the basics for the next, some new budget. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68725	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68726	Thank you. Here is also on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, unfortunately I have to confirm what my colleague before me, Mrak Taritas emphasized, but also many others today, and this is that this budget rebalance is actually the capitulation of this government before the reconstruction of both Zagreb and Zagreb County, but also Banija. And this is now clearly visible, so according to the items in the budget, and I have made it very clear several times that the budget is the main instrument in which a government's policy is seen. And in this budget, or its rebalancing, you can see exactly that. There was no intention, there was no organization, and there was no recovery plan. I will especially say about Zagreb because the earthquake in Zagreb was more than a year and a half ago. I will especially stress this because we have received nearly 5 billion kuna from the Solidarity Fund for the rebuilding of buildings of public purpose for which here is colleague Mrak Taritash himself. We could rebuild it anyway, it wasn't a problem in the law. So we had everything we needed to rebuild public buildings and money and settled property issues and did nothing. Not only that, but from 800 and some million kunas planned at the beginning of the year, so we reduced from 820 million kuna by rebalance to 624 million kuna in the 6th month so that it would now be reduced to 82 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Construction. I mean, if it's not capitulation, I don't know what it is. So the Ministry of Culture has reduced the estimated expenditure for the same purpose by more than 60%. In education of 6 projects, everyone is drastically reduced and, as counterpart Bakic said, 5 of them by more than 90%. So we must clearly acknowledge, that is, the government must recognise to the citizens of Zagreb and Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagorje County for which these 5 billion have been obtained from the Solidarity Fund whether or not it has any intention of working on the reconstruction? Did she or did she not ask and will she or will she not get an extension of the deadline for using the Solidarity Fund? Because if we don't have to tell people clearly how much money these guys are gonna come back and I think it'd be fair and okay to say it already. Also, except that we've capitulated here and admitted that we can't use the money that was given to us a year ago, we haven't had our days yesterday, so we haven't been able to take advantage of it, so a year ago, these money arrived, a year ago, with you knowing that six months earlier, you'd be able to prepare projects for it. So, besides literally squandering those funds, we're going to leak even more, because by May, we're not going to be able to arrange these projects for a large amount of that money. We are also increasing the expenditures of those who come from our own incomes from our citizens from taxes, so we will buy military planes by two and a few billion. You know, when you divide it into how much money it is, for example, one building or house, so if you say that one apartment or building we're going to give people here we're going to give them 30 thousand euros, they're going to get 13 and some thousands of objects, right? But no, we don't do renovations, but we buy planes because the priorities of this government know each other. I'm sure citizens aren't that kind of priority. And one more thing the citizens need to know. The budget rebalancing is approved by the Energy Efficiency Fund over half a billion kuna. Look out, surplus, because there's nothing to spend on, because our citizens don't need energy rebuilding houses. Sisak, Bani doesn't need a whole house rebuilding and an energy recovery with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68727	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Most Finally speaking to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic. [[Intruder Bencic: half a billion.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68728	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, respected ministers with associates, respected Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are all day from 9:30 after free speeches here we are discussing this important topic. I'd like a few accentes. The budget is a vision, a vision of those who bring it, of course. The budget is really everything to you, he shows you guidance on how you think and in which, in the end, with what you can do, is it, of course, in which direction you see the development of your country. Minister, I'm going to re-repeat the studio, so I'm not giving up. Katali Novak, the Hungarian family minister, announced a new measure for the family in Hungary, 6.2% of its budget since the new year totals 8.5 billion euros in its family. We have 250,000 people gone from Croatia and many are still thinking about leaving this country of our great-grandfathers for whom many have given their lives and fabricated them into our freedom. So we have to do this thing together. It's your biggest responsibility because that's where the people put you, but we all have to do what we can. In last year alone, Croatia lost one town the size of the Križevci. We have to do something about it. So our old ones are dying, our mortality is high, our birthright is nothing. The demographics of a country are not important because of the labour issue, although it is an important segment, but is important from the perspective of national security. It's all connected. It's time to become aware of that. Minister, I will cry again. Please don't do anything you can to keep Croatia from putting pressure on us so certain stakeholders in lock down. It'll destroy us. They're going to destroy this people. For years in our country, 15 thousand people die from the consequences of smoking. The town of Makarska, one Metkovic disappears because people die from smoking. What now? Are we gonna ban everyone from smoking or are we gonna explain the serious consequences? Explain how dangerous it is, how dangerous and harmful it is, and then say it on the loose. The virus we can't stop is a basic definition. You don't need to be a medic that you can't store the virus in Aladin's lamp and shut it down. So it'll go through our society. We must protect the risk groups, our old people, everything you say publicly, everything clear and let go of the freedom of the Croatian people and we must live. On the other hand, 8,000 elementary school kids die of hunger every day. I know we're not the tooth fairy, but forgive the 8,000 children of primary school every day in the world. 20,000 people every day. There's food in our world for everyone, and we throw 1.3 billion tons of food. Imagine if the whole world said let's unite as we've united around Covid. Let's not let our little planet keep our children from starving. Let's all do what we can. Okay, maybe we're in the Bridge, we're only 8, the ruling 76, the opposition, let's go to Croatia. Maybe it could spill over, and maybe it's just a dream, right? And maybe not, but maybe when we die, we'll know we did our best. Isn't that the only point in doing your best? How will it be, so who can influence it? But you're doing your best. You're going to sleep well, you've got a quiet dream. Well, there's no money that can pay for it. Minister, I used to tell you 305 million jobs lost because of the lock down globally. 500 million people have fallen below poverty levels. From 135 million to 270 million people have increased the number of hungers. There's a huge increase in mental illness, depression, anxiety, unfortunately suicide. 24, yes, worldwide, 24 million students according to UNESCO have stopped studying. Well, that's terrible data, no one's talking about it. So of course someone wouldn't get me wrong, one lost life is too much. One, because every one is worth it. But he who has power in his hands he sees everything, he sees everything that comes. He foresees steps and he thinks about the future of the entire nation and of our entire country, so please do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u68729	Thank you very much. So I would like to conclude a debate on all these three common points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take one break by 9:00, when it's gonna be the next point. Please clear the hall. It's 20.38 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69875	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good evening. We continue our work, as Vice President Reiner announced. Point - Proposal to launch trust issues Dr. sc. Zdravko Maric, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposals are 34 representatives in the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 125 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government delivered a statement. I would ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, Agent Karolin Vidovic-Kristo. They wrote me wrong, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69876	Ladies and gentlemen. Professor Antonio Argandona of the Spanish University of Navarre described the term of corruption as saying: "Corruption is a misuse of the acquired trust in order to achieve a non-existent benefit". He interprets how corruption may seem socially harmless, but it ultimately always leads to severe and negative consequences for the social situation. But it's always self-destructive for the perpetrators themselves. The arguments for the recall of Minister Maric are also an explanation of the cause of poverty that the European Commission has diagnosed with Croatian citizens. Because the fact that Croats have the lowest wage power after Bulgarians has one fundamental cause, and it is called corruption and social disorder. The work of Minister Marić was described 2,000 years ago, and it reads: “You cannot serve God and riches. ” In the context of today's political moment, it is clear that the Minister of Finance cannot serve both the powers and the citizens. He's either working for the powers or working for the citizens. Minister Maric deserves the title of anti Robin Hood with his work because he favors the powerful and takes the weakest ones. The truth works, it should be said that Maric is not a creator, but a continuation of this unfair policy, which he has taken over from his predecessors Slavko Linic and Lalovac. Because Maric and his predecessors have established tax violence against the weak at the same time, allowing the shameless wealth of a narrow group of powerful men. In Croatia, an ordinary citizen for several thousand kunas from the Tax Administration will be overrun and blocked because there is the most unfair executive law in the European Union, but therefore, for elected powerful men, a pre-determined law that is forgiven by the move of feathers by millions and billions. This inequality and injustice is in direct contrast with the Croatian Constitution, which states in Article 51 that the tax system is based on the principle of equality and justice. But equality, just like Plenkovic's logic, has been wiped out by the government in Croatian, because large crime is being rewarded and the DORH entertains the public with accounts about the lunch of individual mayors. Minister Maric's crimes are measured in hundreds of millions of kunas, but the DORH does not investigate them, although according to the Law he would have to investigate them. Just not charged loans in HBOR is close to 3 billion kuna, who are these debtors? Neither the Croatian public nor the Croatian Parliament know. In a request for the recall of Minister Maric, we cited a number of documented facts, which cannot be disproved. The very fact that we are having this debate today is proof that corruption is deeply rooted in today's government, and it forms the basis of its activities. Of course, this corruption is possible because of the blockade and control of the DORH, because if we had been Austria long ago, all of Mr. Maric's affairs would have been investigated and today we would not have discussed it, nor would Maric be the minister. Because the following facts are not allowed to be disproved. At a press conference on August 18th this year, Minister Maric said that he was a longtime friend of Blaž Pavic, whose yacht he spent his vacation on, and that the Pavic family has no business relationship with the Ministry of Finance, HBOR, the Tax Administration. The document I have here in hand, which I will show you now, was issued by the Customs Administration, so the service under the authority of Minister Maric, on 9 July this year, which is proof that Minister Maric was false. In every single functional democracy, such evidence is resigned or the prime minister is resolved. Also on these documented lies, the state's attorney's office is currently opening an investigation, and we saw this approach in Austria three weeks ago. In our country, the prime minister defends the minister who openly lies to the Croatian public, and this is proof that the laws in Croatia are not respected, but that is also a visible reason why in Austria, where everyone has to follow the law, the standard is three times higher than the Croatian standard, and the Croats delay in Austria with their belly after bread. I must start by saying that Minister Maric today is the minister thanks exclusively to the public demonstration of the anti-constitutional and illegal action of Prime Minister Plenkovic in the management of the DORH. In 2017, Minister Maric stayed with the voice of then-legislator Tomislav Sauche. This incredibly political turn was preceded by a press conference at which Prime Minister Plenkovic, as a mere schoolboy, brought in then state lawyer Dinko Cvitan, in order to go after the proceedings against Sauce with impasses of Croatian legal gaps. And Saucha started voting for Plenkovic and HDZ. It's clear to everyone that this place wasn't clean. Let us look at the following examples why Minister Maric should no longer be a minister for an hour. If Croatia wants to have European standards, of course. The first example is the resignation of the Austrian Chancellor, the renegade in the Chancellor's office by the State's Attorney's office, the opening of an investigation against him, and the arrest of the head of the Agency who manipulated the investigations. The second case was the resignation of the German Federal President a few years ago for favouring an entrepreneur to whom the government granted a guarantee, and for which reason the German State Attorney's Office opened an investigation against the then president of the Federal Republic of Germany. On these two examples, we can see that in the countries of functional rule of law or the most state-level authorities cannot do what they want and can be investigated by those bodies that are responsible for such issues. The inaction of institutions in Croatia has devastating consequences, for example, for the economy. Because when a BMW analyst or General Electrica sees that the head of the executive authority so openly demonstrates his anti-constitutional power, as in the case of Plenkovic – Cvitan, then he will not invest in such a state. And the lack of foreign investment is the reason for economic problems, migration and poverty in Croatia. And here's the additional information on the reasons for the recall proposal. First, the controversial fact of Maric's vacation on the Pavičić family yacht should be enlightened. Because the Pavicic family has its own history and way of doing business, which is why every minister, especially the finance minister, should be extremely careful. Zdravko Marić's claim that the Pavicic family has nothing to do with the IRS is part of an anthology of political-manipulative, absurd and untrue statements. Namely, the father of Blaž Pavić, Mirko Pavić is a socialist manager who privatised the Rijeka-textile company and worked as director during communism in Brodokokomerc. Mr. Pavicic had ownership of his companies through offshore companies from Gibraltar and other tax havens. Off-shore companies are poison to the state register and all taxpayers, very often laundering illegal money through an offshore company, i.e. money not charged with taxes or money obtained by criminal activities. And right now, the Ministry of Finance through its Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is tasked with protecting the state from illegal or criminally acquired capital. Here's a concrete example. Medita d.o.o. The company owned by the Pavicic family, which was inactive in 2010 and didn't even pay the basic capital of 20 thousand kuna, and owned a property estimated at 3 million kuna. The company received a 50m-euro loan from Erste Bank. Is it even necessary to stress the strangeness of this job? The same job that Blaž Pavicic is doing through his company Amec supply of ships d.o.o., which is controlled by Minister Marić for a month before the summer of the yacht gave permission to sell goods free of customs, tax and excise duty, is also potentially dangerous for the state unless there is adequate supervision. And who should oversee the legal action of those cases? They should be supervised by the Ministry of Finance services, and the minister is riding a yacht with the owner of companies that his services should oversee. Do you understand, who defends the behaviour of Minister Marić, how much damage you are doing to the Croatian state, because the situation described here is the cornerstone of corruption in Croatia. Because duty-free goods and companies in tax havens are a potential platform for tax evasion and in great style. It is public knowledge that the Pavic family is in friendly relations with former Minister Slavko Linic. I don't think he should be a special analyst to come to the conclusion that the Pavic family is extremely concerned about closeness with finance ministers. Is it possible that Minister Maric's favor to this entrepreneurial family has been investigated? Has it been established whether there are elements of the crime in the behaviour of Minister Maric? Of course not. Because we are not Austria, our attorney's office is not on its own, it serves the government, not the citizens. The further point that fully disqualifies Zdravko Maric as finance minister is his role in the case of Agrokor. The end-2016 loan case by HBOR is evidence that Minister Maric, as chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board, influenced HBOR's professional services, has undoubtedly committed a criminal offence. Because at the end of 2016, when the CNB banned all banks from lending Agrokor, precisely because of over-indebtedness, HBOR's professional service at the time, granted the highest credit capability to Agrokor. Triple A, AAA. It is clear that this assessment of the professional service was forced to write. In connection with Agrokora, special attention should be added to the following case. It's the Smoke Island case. In the case of Smokvica Island, which was awarded by the state to Ivica Todorovic with concession, the state lost more than 200 million kuna. The reason is that the IRS did not send any notices, nor was it trying to charge a concession fee. The special curiosity in this story is the fact that during this debt to the state, the state at the same time gave Todoric companies for 1 kuna. It is a time when Zdravko Maric was an assistant minister, and a state secretary at the finance ministry. So, the Ministry of Todorovic doesn't charge what needs to be charged, simultaneously suits him, and Zdravko Maric of the Ministry of Finance ends up in Agrokor, near the same Ivica Todorovic. Is this suspicious? Yes, it is. But in Croatia, one applies to the people and the other to the powerful. Because when you are only one day late, for example in the Executive Procedure, you lose your house or apartment, or block all your accounts, but Maric and Linic allow Todoric's hundreds of millions to go out of date. The next example is the total incompetence of the Ministry of Finance as well. It is the accounts of Croatian citizens abroad, and the lack of income and property. Which, for example, is... So far, we've discovered the Bureau of Prevention of Money Laundering? What does this office do? How many secret accounts abroad have he discovered so far? Did he investigate Panama papers and Pandora papers? Did he determine where the member of HEP Administration, Marko Cosic, made a business contribution in tax havens, which he did not report in the property card? So let's see what others do with tax offenders. German SPD President Walter-Borjans, as the then province minister, bought on behalf of the province of Nordrein Westphalen cd with information on German citizens' secret accounts in Switzerland. The CD was essentially illegal purchases, and was paid with 5m euros in tax money, but the German state thus received 7 billion euros in criminal tax. Tell me how much criminal tax Croatia has made so far, according to my knowledge, not a single euro. Does this mean that there is no tax evasion in Croatia? But in Germany, for example, there is. Are you aware of the level to which you have devastated state institutions and how much damage you are doing to your citizens? What did the IRS do about the legality of acquired property? Are you, for example, an example? Find the legality of Judge Miroslav Šeparovic's assets? When did this gentleman manage to save 10 million kunas? Let us now see what is the cause of all the indifference and harmfulness of the activities of the Ministry of Finance and its services as Slavko Linic, Boris Lalovac and Zdravko Marić set up examples of the Tax Administration. She's completely disorganized and targeted. Tax administration employees are disbursed, chicanized and poorly paid, because logic is quite clear. If you want a fair and efficient system, you will have a good structure and people who are well paid for their work. If you want to manipulate, then you will devast the system, set up similar ones instead of capable and encourage corruption through low wages, and rule the system through blackmail. This three made the IRS an anti-robinhud system, to please the powerful and the like, and to rob the poor. I will only give an example of a Croatian defender from Sibenik with four children who during the recession years, Slavko Linić had an unpaid tax debt to the IRS of 35 thousand kuna. He went to the IRS asking them to pay off the debt in the wars. But Linic has created an absurd system in which paying taxes in wars is not possible. So, what is possible in Germany, Sweden or Austria, Croatia is not, because Mr. Linic has made it impossible to pay taxes in wartimes by introducing pre-fashion settlements, but he has therefore made it possible to forgive billions of his friends and friends. That defense attorney, the IRS, refused and blocked him. When the Tax Administration blocks you in today's unjust Croatia, you can't buy any more bread or milk. The only credit he still had came to the man, and the Croatian state for which he had shed blood and tears literally destroyed his business by handing it over to the interest agencies that were assisted by Croatian courts and DORH and taking the whole family years of hell. This is Croatian tax justice, this is a disgrace. Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Maric how many hells do Croatian families go through because of the unfair system you created? Because you don't even send a reminder to Todoric about the debt to the state, and to the Croatian defender who pays taxes neatly and asks only for payments to the wars with the corresponding interest, you reject and destroy it. The next case proves the motive for the non-transparency of the system run by Minister Maric, which is the case of the Vetrokar Krs Padjene. There is material evidence in which Minister Maric orders the owner of the Vetrok Krs Padjena, Milenko Bašić for talks and former secretary of state Rimac conditioned that he wants to talk to him in four eyes. Earlier, the Supervisory Board refused to lend the project, but after the aforementioned talks between Minister Maric and the owner in four eyes, the Supervisory Board changed its opinion without reason and awarded the project which had already violated the contract with the Government's privileged state loan, the largest in the history of HABOR 600 million kuna. Did Maric commit a crime in this case, of course no one was investigating it, but this project is under the influence of the European Commission and we will see what will be learned. It is clear from the above what methods of working Minister Maric are. They are conspiracies and non-transparents and their methods of work are not suitable for the digital time in which we live. So let's look at the other side of the medals that are the results of Minister Marić's work for Croatian citizens. The results are as follows, we have 250,000 blocked citizens, we have half a million evicted citizens in the last 5 years, these are precisely the results of the Ministers of Finance and the Government as a whole, because the ability of the Minister of Finance in one country is measured according to the ability of citizens to pay, by a good and efficient banking system, by a good and efficient Tax Administration, by encouraging measures for citizens, by the security it gives to investors, by reliability towards entrepreneurs and by equal attitude towards all natural and legal persons in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no economic growth and there is no social justice without consistent compliance with the law. The countries where laws are selectively implemented shall be considered insecure destinations and such countries shall not fulfil the role that citizens expect and ultimately which the state must provide in the nature of its existence. Augustin Aurelius will say: "And without justice that the other nations brought down the great bandits of the gang." Croatians did not win their country at the lottery or be given it, but we fought bloodyly for our national freedom and the establishment of the state. Today and each of us MPs must ask the question whether it participates in the grammar and corruption that I have described or the milestone will take place on this issue and we will finally open up a new page in the construction of a Croatian state in which the affairs are not pushed under the carpet, and one of the same offenders as we see are constantly working on the decommissioning of the state, fostering injustices in society, and from the ground-floor of their own interests are affected by a few of the speculative, wealthy people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Parliament has two options in its decision on Minister Maric. First, to push your head into the sand and ignore the evidence and tell the Croatian citizens you are citizens of second order in the EU, you have no right to a civilized state, nor to equality before the law, nor to hope for a better tomorrow. Or secondly, to bolden up and say enough abuse, enough inequality and injustice, enough corruption, and to bolden up and respect the evidence and resolve Maric. This would tell Croatian citizens that they have the right to hope for a better tomorrow, that they are equal with citizens of other countries in the European Union and that they begin to create rich and just Croatia in which work and honesty are rewarded, and that they are not willing and abused. Following all of this, I call on MPs to vote in favour of the resolution of Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69877	Thank you. There's no replica, so we're moving on with the work. I will now call on the government's behalf to address the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and will also speak for Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go, Prime Minister. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69878	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I thank you for your replicas. Here is tonight after the debate on the rebalancing which was important for the Croatian public, for Croatian citizens, for our financial stability, to face the consequences of the Covida-19 pandemic, to enable the quality of the functioning of all systems by the end of this year we also have this initiative of a group of representatives of quite a variety, ideologically close, loved, similar to the circuses we saw here about two weeks ago, but with some exceptions probably because this representative Vidović Kristo almost equally spoke about Mr Linić as much as she spoke about Mr Meric. So I have to admit that creation isn't always missing. As far as this initiative is concerned, the government has been manifested. She, of course, refuses. The parliamentary majority will also reject Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Maric will continue to do his job for the sake of the Croatian economy, our financial system. Since I do not interfere with where any of the members or members of the government spends their vacation, I will leave Minister Maric to say something about it because I see it was a motive for launching this initiative. But I will say something about a series of bizarre views in this oral part of the initiative by MP Vidovic Kristo. So, the government's first role, the DORH, the police, the judiciary. So I don't know what time we have one tird of opposition MPs, this time in your person who obviously doesn't follow what's going on in Croatia, doesn't understand the division of the government, doesn't understand the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the State's Attorney's office, the smooth work of the police. The fact that the reconnaissances are secret, so neither the government nor the Prime Minister knows anything about them, there are no informants or whisperers to be heard, who are not heard. The empty conspiracy theories that we're hearing are simply the gropes of unintelligible and burdened with various conspiracy theories that's the first thing. Secondly, as regards Croatian societies and government achievements and identification with what has been done in recent years. You mentioned something at the end of the European Union, you mentioned how we fought for Croatia, etc. What exactly did you do to make Croatia a member of the European Union? I don't remember you in that process. I don't remember so many actors here on this spectrum part of the year it was done. Nothing, zero, a contribution to the ziro. Something even these current... transformed into political parties in doing so, but you're not exactly anything and it's quite important. People know it, people see it. What matters here is that just a few days ago we presented to the government and the public all the achievements not only in the past year, but in the last five years, and these achievements compared to governments before us are much more successful, better, greater, more quality. For example, the City of Zagreb has withdrawn the lightning 150 million kuna that the government has given them as a unambiguous loan to resolve the liquidity issue. We have done this with pleasure, with the desire to help the capital, which is also my city, with the wish that both Zagreb and other units of local and regional self-government that have difficulties in financing are financed adequately and to solve their problems. In the time of tax reforms led by Minister Maric, we have charged the economy and citizens with 10 billion, 10 billion kuna. implement administrative reforms, come from eternal deficits and problems either to a balanced budget or to a budget surplus. Rapidly reducing public debt. Filled finally two jumps to return Croatia to an investment credit rating in two of the three credit rating agencies in the world. To meet the criteria for the European Course Mechanism two. In the biggest crisis that hit Croatia in its economy, its finances, our social life, our health life, we are at the expense that the minister mentioned today, I said the other day I was 40 billion kuna saved jobs. 700 thousand people in the private sector were paid by the state, not by accident, not by any religious distribution or redistribution, but by a political, quick, bold government decision. Made it possible for 120,000 companies not to go bankrupt. Prevented the wave of discharge, the wave of bankruptcy and prevented the threat of the existence of Croatian families, these were our tasks. We've fulfilled it. In such circumstances we prepared and made it possible according to the data we were now in Dubrovnik on the Days of Croatian Tourism practically the best tourist season in the Mediterranean compared to our competitors, given the numbers and arrivals, and nights, and we will see about the revenues. And we do all this in the context of growth that, according to our estimates, they were always conservative and modest, could reach even 9% of GDP in this crisis year 2021. We do all this to make it better for our citizens, to live better and in circumstances that are ungrateful, which we did not plan on, which we did not influence, which we are facing and for which we are working very hard in all the restaurants and 24 hours a day. We will continue to do this task of ours. Minister Maric will continue to be a member of this government as he was of the former government. I'm not even going to answer these questions from an earlier attempt at a non-confidential voting initiative, because we absorbed it a few years ago and I'm just going to say that we're going to be with you for a few more years. We will work to ensure that our achievements are such that not only the parliamentary majority and the government are proud of them, but that it is all of Croatia and that its citizens live better and better, before we get trust, and that's why a few days ago in the Parliament I was saying that the key topic of the speech here that you were not on, so you write some pathetic letters, I mean the representative who spoke is trust. Without this trust of key actors in society we will go forward, but it would be good to sometimes find at least some and a minimum common denominator. We will always offer and seek it. Whether this offered hand of cooperation will be this part of the assembly, again I say quite ideological Charolic, accept it is not up to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69879	The Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69880	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the lecture on the words of the Prime Minister, whom I thank, among other things, for the trust expressed in this occasion and for the argument of rejecting all the allegations set out in the proposal for a vote of no confidence in me as Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance. Given that I have little time left in addressing this high home, I can only say that all the insinuations listed in the proposal are categorically rejected as everything comes from the fact that I am the head of the Ministry of Finance, whose composition is the Tax and Customs Administration and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, in order to benefit those services against the laws and rules of the profession from their own procedures and decisions, from the interests of my friends or acquaintances. Such insinuations are not only an attack on my human and professional honor, but are also an attack on the legal and impartial and professional work of those services and violates their reputation and citizens' trust in their work. I will point out that I am carrying out my duties as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance knowingly respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the laws and legal order all in accordance with the oath I made before this high house. I can accept a critical debate about the results of my work, but I cannot take it lightly to question my human and professional honor and honesty. For this reason, in front of this honorable home and the entire Croatian public, for me and my family, my colleagues and friends, I reject all baseless accusations and meals at my expense. I hope that during the debate, I will answer all your questions and all that you have unargumentedly put in this proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69881	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Just a little Prime Minister we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She's my first colleague, Selak Rasdic. You have one warning from before just to remind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69882	Second debate. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69883	No, they don't all add up. They're adding up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69884	Article 238 demeaning parliamentary deputies since the prime minister called the opposition a circus, not to mention that perhaps the south had been seized by the Ban Courts and was thus expressed. It is my duty to remind the Croatian public here that the only circus that took place in this assembly was caused by the ruling majority of the anti-zaconial session of the Media Committee which she later had to withdraw, and by the way they wanted to impose the Swedish Director for HRT which, unfortunately, they eventually succeeded.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69885	Of course, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Comrade Bull, you've already had three warnings, so you're now at risk of losing your right of speech by the end of the day. Here you go. ... The warnings of colleagues and colleagues have always been brought together. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, please don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you want to talk or not? ... I'm not gonna kick you out. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're gonna throw yourself out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69886	Thank you very much. He injured the prime minister, Article 238. He disrespected the MPs. A legitimate proposal by declaring a loving ideological opposition. If anyone here can cover their ears about a loved ideological one, you are Prime Minister Plenkovic with Milorad Pupovac, the Serbian National Council that pays for Serbian News that muds Vukovar. You're the only one here, and this is a legitimate proposal to the Prime Minister. It's democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69887	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69888	What you have done for Croatia and the European Union do nothing else please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69889	Comrade Bull, you're getting warning number four.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69890	Why the warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69891	Because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, and I have to tell you a measure of distance from today's session that's what it's called.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69892	I'm not moving? What are you moving for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69893	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69894	You've been counting on me since this morning with completely different points, so this is the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69895	Come on now, don't pretend, pal Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69896	... Well, it counts for me from the other day and from last year. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69897	Come on, please calm down. ... Calm down. [[Intruder Bull:... speaker doesn't understand.]] No, we're not on you. This way when there's no cameras, we can, but now we have to be on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69898	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69899	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Come on, let's move on with the debate now. Replications. I'd like the Prime Minister to come for the pay phone now because the replicas are coming your way. The first is counterpart Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69900	Dear Prime Minister, let's get this straight at the beginning, because Kajalac and the Roman and you were mentioned by the USKOK defendants in correspondence on HBOR's loan to Krš Padjene. I wonder if you've ever been informed by Gabriela Grill about HBOR harassing Bašić? Has the Roman ever hinted to you that Bašić is always there when he needs to? And we would be interested and what that really means because we here in the debate will focus on what we consider to be the most important, and these are exactly secret meetings in the four eyes of Minister Maric with Mr Bashic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69901	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69902	No, no. Ask Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69903	The second one's up, Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69904	I remember well here the interpretation of the Krš-Padens and then the ruling majority laughed at that interpretation so that in the meantime an extended investigation would be made, therefore to the Minister of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, so we had the State Secretary already and that laugh clearly approached you, and it is evident from this that you do not want to answer these questions and this asked by colleague Selak Rasudiæ, and Minister Maric, who is always happy to answer to the media, is acting as a well-prepared witness, so who must not say too much that he is not killed because he is clearly incriminating. So I don't expect you to answer this question, but I'd just like to tell you not to laugh too much today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69906	There's nothing to answer, no questions, no comment bad, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69907	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69908	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in the wake of the government in this written, and even now in your presentation, you have expected to reject and miniorize the allegations from the motion to launch the recall of Minister Maric. Along the way, you've listed the various results of your government that apparently give you an alibi for everything you do. Why didn't you advise government chief Maric to say openly then in August whose yacht he was on and to explain it in a transparent manner and to apologize to the public, rather than to say that this is his private matter? Even if staying on the yacht of entrepreneurs Blaž Pavicic was harmless to show, do you realize that our citizens, many of whom are barely able to deal with the end, are really sensitive to these actions of politicians and powerful people. Why is it so hard for you all to apologize for the government's peas from headquarters or from the work of headquarters onward, so just to say sorry, we were wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69909	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69910	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. I don't know exactly what genre of SDP you're in, I don't see what excuses we should give in relation to our results. I don't know what you mean. Maybe you should read another report on the government's work, so if you find that something that we should apologize for, then we can talk about it, and like this, some of the flat-rate and arbitrary reviews you're talking about, these are some of your impressions, impressions, attitudes, or whatever they are, I don't know what they're up to. As far as informing the public about where Minister Maric was taking his vacation, when I first saw him and talked to him, he was exactly the same as I remember and told the public where he was and who he was with. So that thing was absorbed at that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69911	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69912	Thank you. So these cognitive abilities are definitely limited, I didn't realize this introduction of yours to this subject, but well, that's you. But do you know who Mark Harper is, you know...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69913	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69914	Can't you hear me? Huh. Let's start over. Do you know who Mark Harper is, do you know who Maria Borellius is, do you know who Cecilia Cilo is, do you know who Mona Ingeborg is, and do you know who HDZ is? That's my question to you. So these are ministers from the British or Swedish governments who have resigned for much less than, say, quote, Minister Maric's burdens, from the tabletrons and the chocolates to, say, not paying for a TV subscription, the ones I've listed. You know who HDZ is? So, the political party that you're in charge of, which even the citizens of the Republic of Croatia haven't apologized for the crime she's committed, which is why the taxpayer's money is paying back the debts in the Fimi-media affair, so I don't even expect anything to change in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69915	Here's your answer. Please don't throw it away. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69916	Well, Mr. Representative, Hajdash Doncic, first part of the first part, you were unspeakable probably because you're too tall for this microphone, and you're not the only one who can't be heard well, so it's not some kind of discription in the sense that I didn't want to hear you, but you're not really hearing you. As for the rejuvenation of the Supreme Court's ruling, I'll only tell you what I said then. So HDZ respects the Croatian legal order, respects the decisions of the courts, met its obligation immediately. A party that is in office, at a time when I am president, only out of membership income 42 seems to me to be a million kunas, no problem serving its obligations, no debts, no loans, no loans, no orderly business, and has all the indications of state audit without problems For what was before, let whoever was to blame be excused. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69917	Thank you very much. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69918	Thank you. First of all, Your Honors Prime Minister, this excruciating woman of yours... Turned and transformed, as you said to the political parties, that level of your actually addressing us MPs is the level at which I could tell you what then HDZ, a movement transformed into a criminal organization. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that how we talk, that's how we start? But let's just say that we have more important questions, which is to tell us if you knew that Minister Maric was meeting about Lex Agrokor and the former administration of Agrokor five times, not twice as he testified to the commission because the USKOK statement made by Martina Dalic shows that it was 5 times, while your minister testified in front of the committee that it was only two times, so I wonder how many times it was in the end. How many times have you been introduced? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69919	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69920	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I remind you that we helped the City of Zagreb with 150 million kuna of unscathed loan. It is very important that, it is very important that we understand this, that we accept it, that we take it into account, that we be aware of why the city administration that received the trust will function normally on the basis of the money given by the government of the same HDZ that you are so heartily praising. I don't know what your connection to Agrokora is, I don't know what your connection is probably to the former owner, but there's something. I don't know exactly what it is, but there's something there. I have no idea how many times anyone has met with who I know that we have prevented the collapse of not only these companies, suppliers, Croatian economies, financial systems, small agricultural economies. If it were up to you, everything would be ruined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69921	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69922	Infringement of Article 238, insulting MPs with an obvious suggestion that the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is traded in a way that you here say that you gave the loan that you gave way to all cities that were damaged by the earthquake, the loan, not the money, the loan, after you took through tax reform three times as much, you will thus blackmail us here that We must not be having HDZ affairs. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful fellow Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69923	My colleague Bencic is out of time, my colleague Bencic is out of time, you get a warning this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. Let's move on, now it's time for your colleague, Dark Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69924	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Prime Minister Plenkovic, each of us has a way of speaking and saying that he has. You've already made it very clear how you feel about the opposition, about those over there and about that circus over there. So, the mud-popping option, when someone starts throwing mud, the result is that they're all muddy, no one cares who's first. And you coming into this assembly are doing everything you can not to answer what was the question. And my question to you will be, why all day you have left Minister Maric here to answer or not to answer, but he has listened to opposition MPs who talk about rebalancing and who talk about the problem that is in that rebalancing, and who can come to a very clear topic. One topic is health care, which is a bottomless bag, and it goes on and on and on and on that crown that no one actually manages anymore. And the second topic is the restoration of which there is no O. So why didn't you and the ministers who were responsible? Is that what Minister Maric and I let go of here? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69925	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69926	Thank you, well-respected representative, Dark Taritash. Simply, the practice of rebalancing is that the rebalancing represents the finance minister, when the government's budget comes, go to the archives, and you'll see, I doubt there was a prime minister in the government where you were the minister that came to interpret the rebalancing. If it's a coincidence that I'm saying this, and I doubt I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69927	Here you go, fellow Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69928	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, last year companies that don't have a single employee arrived in the Republic of Croatia 20 million kuna. I don't know if your minister informed you that there are 13,000 companies in Croatia, of which 41,000 or incredible 30% are companies that don't have any employees. In your term of office for the last 5 years, these companies have received 91 billion kuna without any employees and most of these companies have been shut down after a few years. Is this something you know exists in one EU country? Please give me a concrete answer. I'm not interested in your postcards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69929	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69930	Thank you, well-respected MPs, I am yours, ask Minister Marić, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69931	Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69932	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you said that you and HDZ respect the legal order, that's not true. You have destroyed the legal order as well as the state institutions. One of them is the Committee for Decision on conflict of interest. Namely, this opposition proposal has 3 elements and 3 parts. The first question is a vacation on a Finance Minister's yacht? The fact is that the commission as an institution has been unable for months to resolve a very simple case of pure and unequivocal admission of an illicit gift. The second, second point, is the second area of the role of Minister Maric in favour of the wind power plant Krš-Pađena, and you count on forgetting Croatian citizens because the judicial authorities will decide on it for decades. And the third topic is to reactivate the Borg affair in which there has been an apparent defeat of the rule of law. that it was decided by the state's chief attorney, who was later identified as a masseuse. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69933	Thank you, colleague. My colleague Oreshkovic's time is up. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69934	Thank you very much, I didn't quite understand, except for this brief recapitulation of several points of this initiative to vote for mistrust, which is exactly the question, I failed to understand it, but something you were saying at the outset that we were contributing to some kind of destruction of institutions or something like that. I suppose you were thinking about the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, so maybe it's time someone said that it was you who were at the head of that commission for years going ultra-sources, you were acting so out of the box what that law gives you. And then all of a sudden, the courts and these wonders in several cases against Mr. Bernardic, there was somewhere and some other people said, behold, the commission had no legal basis or authority. Therefore, whoever destroys the institutions, who does not respect the legal order, you should do something interpret it to the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69935	And the last replica to the Prime Minister, colleague Piletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69936	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, in this proposal 34 MPs of the Croatian Parliament, among other things, Minister Marić's behaviour damages Croatian citizens, encourages and creates corruption and subsequently creates poverty. We could hear from a few MPs about caring for Croatian citizens, but we did not hear that this government and Minister Maric increased the personal deduction from 2,600 kuna to 4, almost doubled. We couldn't hear that a demographic, social and economic measure was introduced for young people of 25 years where we reduced the tax by 100%, young from 26 to 30 percent. We have not heard that a fiscal balancing category has been introduced for those units of local self-government and regionals that do not achieve the reference value of tax revenue capacity, building hundreds of kindergartens, increasing thousands of scholarships and enabled, so on and so forth. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69937	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69938	Thank you very much, Mr. Chicken. We apologize for all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69939	And we're going with one replica for Vice-President and Minister Maric, Prime Minister you're free to return to your seat, and this replica will give, Prime Minister, you're finished, Mr. President, please be my guest, colleague Urša Raukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69940	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I would then ask you to answer which the prime minister did not ask questions, which is what you said on the committee that you participated in 2 meetings in Agrokor, and Ms. Martina Dalic said in a statement to this USKOK that you participated in 5 meetings. The question is very simple, did you tell the truth, and Mrs. Dalic is not telling the truth in the statement of the BUSKOK or is it the other way around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69941	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69942	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I was telling the truth because I was answering the question asked by the committee. I answered every one of their questions, and as you well know as well as the Croatian public, I personally attended the public sessions of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest twice, answering all the questions that they had asked me on the basis of what I was saying all along, and so on in this particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69943	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, we've come to an end with replicas, so we'll open the debate now. First of all, it's the Club of Representatives of the Most, who will speak then, a colleague of the Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69944	Here, the prime minister has escaped from us, has not answered any concrete questions, we hope Minister Maric will answer these specific questions, let's also ask counterpart Selak Rasudic. I'd like to have this debate today with arguments, without any twisting and always keeping in mind the firm and undeniable facts. I'd like to stick to those facts and what we're mostly familiar with right now. And Minister Marić, who is in fact the object of this impeachment, I call for his testimony to clarify and complete what we do not know and what the whole public is asking. Like I said, I'm gonna stick to the facts, so I'm gonna go in some order. About a year ago, I said it in my replica, and we discussed the interpretation of the Krš-Padjana project that we at the MOST Club as well as some other MPs supported with our signatures. At that time, the government rejected that interpretation with an easy and prosaic opinion, and the majority of the Parliament. Her part that came from the HDZ ranks mocked that interpretation. In any case, everything is said in this high house, but somehow it seems to me, and I told Prime Minister Plenkovic, and he wasn't laughing today, so it seems like that laugh came to you from this perspective. All you said at the time as governments and most in the assembly was a clean transfer of responsibility, everyone was to you except yourself, and you were very aware that only your members and members and your secretary of state were being investigated. Meanwhile, from this interpretation to this day, investigations have also been extended to one of the ministers in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, so I think he is still a member of the party's presidency, and the topic of these investigations has become a HABOR loan, which was approved by C.E.M.P. to the owner of Milenko Basic. What we read in the media this spring, this rude correspondence from which we read that half of the government of Andrej Plenkovic was committed and engaged in resolving one credit for one company and one entrepreneur shows that you are neither from the FIMI Media affair, nor from this affair or from some others you will learn nothing or want to learn. I have to say, I'm reading media clips from the story of how C.E.M.P. is. HABOR approved a 600 million kuna loan and I won't say what, and these were just pieces, they were just pieces of the story that opened more questions than we got answers. That media story seemed pretty confusing to me, so I'd like to clarify some of the things about this HABOR loan. According to media reports, the earliest mention of HABOR in these current investigations refers to June 2018 and again to December the same year C.E.M.P., C.E.M.P. HABOR was rejected with his request for credit. After that, the story doesn't stop, it gets a little too hot. Therefore, the media inscriptions indicate that at some point in the HABOR, an offer was also considered to grant C.E.M.P. a loan of EUR 50 million, and then we come to January 2019 when the HABOR Supervisory Board discusses the C.E.M.P. loan. According to the government, the loan was not decided at the time, but the members of the supervisory board are only familiar with the status and chronology of this project. After that meeting, things are getting hot, phones are on fire, Basic is looking for a meeting with the current finance minister here. Media reports show that the meeting at the initiative, Josipa Rimac, was organised, and that the meeting was held in 4 eyes to insist on the presence of Minister Maric and USKOK suspect Milenko Basic. Otherwise, I must admit that you have a rare talent for holding meetings in four eyes with people who eventually end up as USKOK suspects. That's what you need to know, have that kind of company, and avoid the defendant's bench. All honors, your talents are obviously numerous. Now, we didn't know these facts when we were discussing impellation a year ago, we were just quoting them, and here Minister Maric was present with the public, and he didn't even share today what was being discussed at the meeting. The only thing we know again from the media signs of correspondence between USKOK suspects Josipa Rimac, Gabriela Žalac and Milenko Bašić is that after that, all three of these USKOK suspects were happy and satisfied. Since our government claims in its testimony that there were no benefits that turned out to be the present minister, as well as the HBOR team, successfully embezzled USKOK's suspect by showing them as if they had done them some kind of favor, and they actually granted them what the SEMP would've gotten anyway without any interventions from anyone. This is important to understand because it is an official version of the story of our government and here present minister, and it is important to note this official version of the government because it will be the basis for the defence of all three USKOK suspects in this affair. So I repeat, the story you ministers and governments serve in your statements and manifestations will certainly be a good basis for defending these three people. But let's get back to the reconstruction of the story. From the correspondence of USKOK's three media transmissions, we learn that after the meeting, Maric and Bašić changed the position of Mrs. Tamare Perko, head of HBOR administration according to the Krš-Paden project and the possibilities for its financing through credit. - Mrs. Crescent. Perko is usually a very interesting character in this story. The pieces of correspondence between these three first describe it as a very determined and reluctant loan approval. Even according to media reports, one of USKOK's suspects at one point said Tamara is killing us, but after a meeting between Minister Maric and Milenko Basic, Mrs. Perko had a conversion, so she became more permissive. About Mrs. Otherwise, we find out that HBOR was reluctant to be the only CEMP lender. What's more, we find out it's Mrs. Webbard. Perko and herself at some point called commercial banks, specifically ZABA and PBZ, and in his correspondence with USKOK suspect Josip Rimac Mrs. Perko complains because, as she says, she is now doing a job that Bashic's financial director should do. This little segment of the story of Mrs. Devereaux. Perko is actually the most commendable work of HBOR. We see one employee here, and that's no less than the head of the board who personally wires the banks to get into trouble with the investor. So HBOR is such an engaged investment bank that any entrepreneur should just go in and look for money and investors, and HBOR is doing all that for him. Even if you have a recommendation from Josipa Rimac and Minister Marić, all of you are being handled by the head of the administration in person. My colleagues and colleagues, if all this wasn't so embarrassing, it would be one surreal scenario for some good comedy, but unfortunately this story is a real picture of our country today. We're asking you, Minister Maric, to explain what you've been doing and what you've met with Uskok's suspect, Bashic? We ask you to explain whether it is true that HBOR agreed to increase the initial bid for a loan from 50 million euros in 2018 to 80 million later and why did this happen? We ask you to explain to us whether, at a time when you are acting as head of HBOR's supervisory board, the bank has approved any loan at an approximate level as an exclusive creditor of the project without the commercial banks behind the project? We would also find it interesting to know whether then Minister of Government Andrej Plenkovic informed the boss about what was done here, which, which, what is done by Milenko Bašić, who, according to Josipa Rimac, is a friend who is always there when it is 10 years old.? And why exactly is that, Mr. Bashic, always there when it's right, we could just find out about the USCOK investigations. As the media conveys again, it's sort of suspicious at least, and perhaps undeclared financing of HDZ costs. But we're just about to find out, and if anything is successful in this affair, since the government insists that no favors have been made and provides the hand of the USKOK suspects. So, Minister Maric, I'm looking for answers to these specific questions. It is clear to me that Plenkovic had to flee because this is for him, and for the government too, it is possible for a new Fimi-media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69945	In the name of the promoter respected Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69946	I'll look back, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject if we can even call them Mr. Maric and Mr. Plenkovic. If there is ignoring and disrespecting the Croatian public then Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Maric have just demonstrated it. They have not responded to any arguments, and in fact, you are threatening Mr. Maric to live in a civilised state in which laws are respected. Those are your messages. You answered no allegations, no arguments were made. You want to impose on Croatian citizens the status of second-class citizens in Europe because we saw on the Austrian case that on reasonable suspicion of corruption state bodies react immediately, you blocked the institutions of the state against the constitution and through corruption, and you displaced more Croats than Alexander Rankovic did. The time to charge gentlemen for what has been done, and be sure and this history teaches us will come because you have driven 500,000 people out of your hearth from Croatia, and the judiciary, this is confirmed by the European Commission and the EU is the worst for you throughout the EU. Finally, I would like to give another assessment of the gentleman acting as prime minister in our country, Plenkovic's performance would say the combination of Sanader's haughtiness and Bakaric's bloodlessness and juphilism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69947	The replica of Nicola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69948	Dear counterpart Kristo, there's something bothering me from there, Minister Maric, after my presentation, I don't know what hit him specifically. I have to admit that in this story, he's the most disappointed, the only one with information and firsthand knowledge was in contact with all of these three USKOK suspects. Otherwise, he's a fan of the media and the public, he's very nice and he's always ready to stand in front of the media and answer questions. And now all of a sudden, it wouldn't be too much on this subject, the cat tore up the tongue, a single official version of the story, and act like a possible suspect. So, how do you do that, how do you comment on your colleagues, Kristo?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69949	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69950	In fact, in your explanation of your question, esteemed colleague Grmoja said the same thing, but when you say that the Croatian public has the perception that he is a good minister, that Minister Maric is a good minister, it is a imposed perception, and on the other hand we saw in the film Godfather how smooth, nice and favorite consulates, so we may be able to pull some parallels, who is the perpetrator of what this government does. And as for the real quality of Minister Zdravko Marić, then we can say that the quality of the finance minister in each country is very easy to measure. It is measured according to the payload power of its citizens, it is measured by investment, it is measured by standard and not to count further. There is no such thing in Croatia under its pasture and leadership by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69951	On behalf of the government, Prime Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69952	Thank you, well-respected Vice Presidential Assembly. I'm not an esteemed MP or anything, but I've shown that I'm going to answer my word. That's what I've alluded to. Let's start with the fact that you're talking about that loan, so I'm going to be the first part of what's in the motion for my resolution, and then the fact. He says this, Minister Maric participated contrary to the HABOR rules in the process of granting a loan to the windman Krs-Padena. I took part in the decision exclusively in accordance with the HABOR rules only at the meeting of the Supervisory Board as the chairman of the Supervisory Board whose vote is equal to all other members of the Supervisory Board. Otherwise, the HABOR as an institution that you purposely want to devastate has its own professional services. Each credit claim is first passed by the lending sector, the analysis sector, the legal business sector which determines the collateral and legal contracts, then the risk sector, so that the credit rating committee makes decisions for up to 3 and 7 million kuna respectively, and then the HABOR administration, if it comes to the credit rating of more than 37 million kuna, is then required to agree on the supervisory board. So he's not one person president of the board of directors, he's got us pretty much. He says, although as chairman of the Supervisory Board, he had no right to influence decisions and evaluations of the HABOR professional services and administrations. So I don't have any influence on the decisions and evaluations of HABOR's professional services, not in this case. At a session on January 18th, the Supervisory Board refused to credit the windman, that and what you are calling on, the basis of certain media inscriptions is simply not true. It is clearly seen from these media inscriptions that the debate was under a different point, under 17 precisely, where the management president provided information about the project, so we did not discuss it as such. Following that conversation in 4 eyes and without witnesses, the HABOR Supervisory Board at its meeting on 14 March 2019 approved a windstorm credit that is highest in the history of HABOR. Again incorrect, a loan granted to C.E.M.P. It is not the highest in the history of HABOR, it is also presented the first and only time, you can laugh as much as you want now I do not know who is telling the truth or the truth, which professional services have positively assessed, here you should stress that renewable energy projects if they are professionally and transparently prepared have different international sources of funding, you are actually accusing 60% of wind power plants in Croatia that they are not good, because 60% of them are exclusively sources of funding domestic sources. You're implying that not only this one, but you're setting aside a whole series of other projects. Where this level of credit was harmful to Croatian citizens and this project could have been prepared from professional business management to obtain international funding, these HABOR funds could have been used to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises. The one who has harassed you on me, and I know well who this is about, and the one who writes this to you among other things, is wrong, so HABOR has no limited resources on this, in this principle, the liquidity of HABOR, which I have answered today in the context of a replication of one of the parliamentary issues or replicas, has provided sources and international financial institutions and international investors and what is most important of the EU in terms of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. Finally, another allegation, which is also incorrect, is that Minister Maric has exerted influence on HABOR's professional services in order to unreally assess the investment value of the project itself. The motive for this manipulation was to show the amount of credit compared to the total investment gradually lower than it really is, and this investment study was done by a renowned international company. I know her name Megjuule, I've never sat with these people, but everyone says, and I checked that it's a reputed house like that. So a whole series of incorrect allegations. Otherwise, this time that I have left when you already mention Mr. Grmoja of this meeting, then among other things, it is no longer worse to mention and the meeting that you invited me to while we were coalition partners here in the rooms of the club MOST then in the Croatian Assembly. Who was present, do I want to remind you? So I'm also asking you, what kind of meeting is this, where I'm being called as Minister of Finance to a meeting where he's an employee of the Ministry of Finance, which is what we're talking about back then. Well, you know for yourself from that meeting as well as from all the meetings that I've had, I've always been the only one who's ever dealt with and ran fairer, the regulations and the laws. And as for you distinguished MPs, just a brief quote from your letter to me, your ministry implements the laws in an arbitrary and obsessing manner. One lady experienced an incredible torture by the Customs Administration, etc., etc. And then your last sentence, as Minister of Customs Administration, requires a hasty response from you. I ask myself what kind of an urgent response you are and what do you expect from the Minister of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69953	Thank you. Please, distinguished representative Kristo, put on a mask. The first replica of the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69954	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister. Even before this fellow of yours I wanted to set up a replica, I'd like to go in one maybe a little different direction if we're going to talk about a narrative... No, no, no. I'm always for the truth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Whomever the tiger bites he is afraid of and the little kittens and you know that our experience, Croatian experience with both corruption and all difficulties is not a joke. So we had big fish here that bit quite a bit, took away the Croatian people and Croatian society, and that's where we can agree with the ministers. It is legitimate that we and the opposition here at the Mosta Club ask questions that we want the truth and it is legitimate for you to come before us and the Croatian people and answer. And that's all he wanted to say, so, and all the truth that's being driven out, really the truth can save us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69955	Okay. Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69956	Thank you very much. Here's a thank you for your contribution to the debate. You haven't asked me anything specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69957	The next replica is the respected representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69958	Mr. Maric, my replica of your exposure is next, the HBOR professional services were not influenced by you but by Elvis Presley, Elvis Presley he influenced not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69959	Okay. Next line, you want to answer? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69960	I don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69961	Well, you didn't have that question. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69962	Dear Minister Maric, you met with Milenko Bashic, and then your meeting in four eyes Mrs. Perko started calling commercial banks and looking for creditors, and we met at the Mosta Club with you, at the Mosta club in HS, it's an official meeting about which topics, about your initiative to shut down the taxpayer, was that right? About your initiative to shut down the IRS, that was an initiative. And you met a man in four eyes. I don't meet people like that in four eyes. I can be found and seen, and then many lobbyed for this project and Milorad Pupovac we were a problem for the Milenko Bašić project and one prominent HDZ man is now passive so we won't mention it, but they know he has a haircut like Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69963	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69964	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, I only mentioned this to you among other things that meeting you attended, so at each meeting, he was in four eyes in six or as many eyes as you wanted. So it's neither the first nor the last investor to ask for a certain HBOR loan, and I'm going to repeat it again, credit funds. Here nothing has been donated to anyone, so the credit has passed all HBOR professional services has been approved not as it says there and as you speak some of you under privileged conditions, however, the interest rate has even been somewhat higher than that... and it is properly paid off, it is neatly paid off it is most important of all. So let's get that illusion out of the way that something has happened to someone and given them some rules and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69965	Thank you, Minister. We have several violations of the Rules of Procedure, he is the right respected representative, Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69966	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. Let's see. In 238, they insult the minister, we see that it doesn't matter at all what the minister was doing and what the content was, it's important what happened in 2016 that the Bridge is no longer with us in the coalition Mr. Miletic remembers it, but this is and there is no replica except for Most and Mrs. Caroline Kristo so that this is a circus that was led by Mr. Grmoy now just continues, but here in the circus Mrs. Vidović Kristo joined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69967	Time. You're getting a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69968	Thank you very much. Art. 238. Injured by Minister Maric, so the demeaning of parliamentary MPs is constantly saying that there is no advantage in lending Krš-Padena is a very non-scheduled fact, which is that at that point the project was already literally ruined because it broke the contract with the government was not at all within the deadline prescribed by the law or by that contract and was not allowed to be credited by a bank that when it said nothing free and that nothing donated to HBOR numbered 3 billion unpaid debts. What are we talking about? Who are you fucking with, anyway? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69969	You know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning too. Next is a debate on behalf of the SDSS MP, Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69970	The Honorable Vice President of HS, Mr. Vice President of the Government. Today, we are gathered here by a proposal to launch a trust issue to Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Marić, who signed 34 MPs, just a few more than one-fifth of the total number of MPs required from our Rules of Procedure. In the last term of mid-2017, The proposal to launch a trust issue with Minister Zdrav Maric signed 46 MPs, and then 75 MPs voted for a decision to show no confidence as much as they were against, without abstentions, with one parliamentary representative not voting, so the proposal was rejected. I believe that this proposal will also be identical or that it will be rejected because the argument in the proposal is weak, and the evidence is almost gone. The new proposal rests more or less on the issue that Minister Maric was hanging out on a yacht this summer with a certain entrepreneur who he said had no business with the ministry and from that, he concluded that the minister serves the centres of power. I think this conclusion is quite illogical, it is unclear to me that the applicants of the proposal imagine that one entrepreneur does not have any contact points with the ministry and other related institutions. It doesn't sound logical and it's either Maric or some other minister shouldn't hang out with someone with touch points with, for example, the IRS. To banalise things, most of our citizens have received a tax return solution, does this mean that Minister Maric must not be friends with such people? Is Minister Maric allowed to live with his wife if she received a tax return? Of course, whether the minister or others should not influence the decision-making of the competent authorities, he must not influence his private ties with public matters, but no such evidence has been provided in this proposal that Maric did so. The upcoming of alleged evidence in the form of links of newspaper articles is quite funny considering them as a strong enough means of proof to prove anything, with due respect to the news profession newspaper articles, especially investigative journalism is a highly esteemed branch and can only be a trigger to initiate proceedings, not evidence of such accusations. Zdravko Maric is a doctor of science, he was assistant minister of finance, he was secretary of state, this is the third government in which the minister of finance is rarely so respected and respected by the Croatian public and in the proposal that we received, which was not signed by even all the opposition clubs I expected more than what was written, which is why this assembly should be resolved by Minister Maric. Yet one step further went and the man was attacked and his professionalism and his ethical approach were doubted. Today, during the discussion on budget rebalancing for 2021, we need to be realistic and say that Minister Maric and the other members have uncontestedly drawn the maximum in these pandemic times and times of earthquakes and that budget rebalance has not remained a list of good wishes, but has become a balanced rebalance of real needs and real goals. The burden of individual decisions within the HBOR is quite severe because the Supervisory Board gives only consent to the credit approvals drawn up by professional services, so professionals without any influence or influence. It is groundless to discuss some of the accusations contained in the proposal and to discuss because they are prescribed from the previous proposal of 2017 on which I said something. All who have read the motion for impeachment, for resolution and what is written can see that there is no concrete document or evidence that would burden Minister Zdravko Maric and question the trust given to Minister Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69971	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69972	The Honorable Vice President of HS. Art. 238. My colleague Jeckov can say that with his honor he guarantees the honor of Minister Marić because it is legitimate to me, but to say that someone is honest because he is a doctor of science, so he was also Dr. Ivo Sanader, doctor of science and other doctors who fled to BiH, means that some doctor of science means nothing about honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69973	Okay, you know this wasn't a breach of the rules of procedure, you get a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's Jack's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69974	My dear colleague, I suggest you listen to me more carefully next time. I was talking about his biography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69975	You used this for a replica and a reminder to you. Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69976	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, for a few moments exactly on a full 60 minutes, took us on a wonderful journey to Switzerland and Norway and to all of us who listened to this exposure, it seemed like we were there, as if we were enjoying the benefits of the Swiss health system, Norwegian education or Norwegian environmental care. Today we have met reality, today we have seen from the presentation of Plenkovic that neither Switzerland, nor Norway, Austria, Germany or any other regulated EU country with clear regulations and clear rules on what is laughing or which cannot be further from Croatia than they are now. Mr. Maric is certainly not the worst of Croatian politicians, far from it. Mr. Maric, in his affairs, is certainly in the ranks of some who were responsible for the handover of management rights in the INA. Given the depth of his marifetluks, he is neither in the rank nor in Mr Kuštević's. The question is whether she's in the ranks of Mrs. Deer. A regret, but it will be decided by the judicial authorities. The affairs we're talking about today at least when it comes to summering are certainly not multimillion people, it's not about billions, but it's about the fundamental principles of public duty. Let's remind you, Mr. Maric, when he was faced with the summering he did not want to give the information that every politician would give when faced with such a situation. It shows that he is not ready for transparency that should come with the post of minister in the government and vice-president of the Republic of Croatia. After that, it was said that he had been spending the summer with his longtime friend, and then we learn from the media that this friendship was going on right there from the moment he became Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, behold, the miracle of the Minister of Finance, which is very interesting to the particular entrepreneur. Dear colleagues and colleagues, an affair or an irregular behaviour of an official does not need to be a million kuna or to pursue billions of kunas in order to be unacceptable. And this is the way in which Croatia should be part of an orderly community called the EU, and Croatia does not tend to do so, although whenever HDZ is in power we face people often named Bacic known for serving as couriers for various financial means. That's the reality we live in. And I'm going to say it again, Maric certainly isn't the worst in that HDZ-led column, but what he did is not acceptable. About what happened in the Krš-Padene affair, the answer to this will be BUSKOK, DORH or the courts because regardless of the minister's tenacity to try to show the facts here in one way, the fact is, Mr. Marić is that the loan was granted after your meeting in 4 eyes with the entrepreneur and of how much you try to escape you can't because it really happened. However, to us from the SDP, what we have talked about so far during this debate is not the most important reason why we will raise the hand for Mr Maric's resolution, the reason is much more. We discussed the reasons for today all day when we discussed budget rebalancing. The reasons are that as a minister, you have done nothing to prevent the collapse that is happening in the health system. Someone's gonna say it, but it's Berosh's fault. Yes, Berosha's responsibility is greater than yours, but you, as Minister of Finance, pump billions into that system, and not to reduce debts but to keep growing continuously, and the quality of health services is falling. It's your responsibility, Mr. Maric. Inflation. You'll come and answer, so inflation happens all over the world and you'll be very right. But I will remind you of what the President of the European Commission said a few days ago, all the mechanisms at your disposal to reduce the effect of this inflation for Croatian citizens. You don't use those funds, and it's your responsibility, Mr. Maric. More than 200 million kunas of funds available to the Republic of Croatia for reconstruction have not been used. You are not only Minister of Finance, but also Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and that is your responsibility. More than 200 million kuna for co-financing of European funds projects has not been used. What is the multiplier effect of this on what could have been withdrawn that these funds were used, at least 3 to 4 times. And it's your responsibility both as Deputy Prime Minister and as Minister of Finance. It is your responsibility that there is no control of expenditure from the state budget, money leaks everywhere, and what happens does not affect the improvement of citizens' standards, it is also your responsibility. And you, Minister Maric, must answer for this, whether today, whether voting or any other time is less important, but this is your responsibility and should be discussed openly. And I will allow myself only one answer to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which may not be directly related to the impeachment itself, but since the chairman has allowed the Prime Minister to speak of it, I hope he will not take my word. Plenkovic boasts today with a hundred 50 million kuna for Zagreb's grant loan, on the side which is one package, which is one aid that is available to other cities, but I will ask you something else. Would the City of Zagreb need these hundreds of 50 million kunas if, with the participation of HDZ, the city was not in charge of 8 billion and 200 million kuna? Small mathematics, 8 billion and 200 million kuna is exactly 55 times what is said today and what Plenkovic is being praised today. And di was when HDZ held a candle in the assembly and most of the money could be crushed like this, where Plenkovic was then, why he was silent then, why he did not react then, but today when he boasted. And when I listen to it, I simply wonder if the citizens of this city should raise a monument to Andrej Plenkovic like Turkmenbashi's and perhaps place it on some of the Zagreb squares only because I'm not sure it should be Ban Jelačić's Square or Mark's square. Don't brag about something that isn't to brag about. The 150 million kuna of Zagreb would not have been necessary if Bane Herman and the team hadn't done what they were doing in recent years. And I will finish, we will vote in favour of Mr. Maric's impeachment but not just for the reasons mentioned in this motion for impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69977	In the name of the promoter respected Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69978	So, Mr. Maric, you didn't respond to HABOR's loans, you didn't respond, and HABOR in the meantime, as I pointed out earlier, has three billion kunas of outstanding claims. So I think that's the answer, when you don't give an answer, that data is the best answer. But it must also be pointed out that these 3 billion outstanding claims were made precisely because you are violating the basic professional norms. Furthermore, when I list what you have not answered, which is constantly listed to you and from the constituency benches you have not said anything, not a word about the dutyless slave. You didn't say anything about accounts abroad, and by the way, you lied, I must say, you lied about that lady you committed violence on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69979	There is one replica, respected representative Rajko Vidovic... Rajko Ostojić, I'm sorry so it said I didn't [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I'm sorry, that's what it said I didn't. [[Intruder: Important that it is not Sanader, let me be Vidović.]] [[Intruder: It's good, not bad, not even Sanader.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69980	Dear Mr. Vice President, we are interested in Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, the president of the SDP has left, what do you think about the party which club I have Googled at www.sdp.hr still has 14 MPs, and the 14th is the recent USKOK's, USKOK's indictee. What's your emotional attitude about it, so we have SDP's club, 14th, 14th, is the defendant, what is your bastard filling do you have any emotional feelings about it. Having just heard the speech of the president of the SDP, do you have any attitudes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69981	Yes, I am absolutely focused on this debate and I must admit that I didn't fully understand your question... Then let's talk about it outside the assembly. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I can but thanks for the replica. [[Intruder: Please don't, not each other.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69982	If you don't have an answer, thank you. The next debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, respected Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69983	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, I will not judge anyone, especially without evidence, but I will present the facts. I think facts and truth are something this country needs first. The truth is like the justice of a slow but reaching one, and as one great thinker Masarik said, the time comes for her to become necessary. Don't worry, whatever it is, it's all gonna come out on its own. So, it is simply not possible to hide some things in this country, but the fact is that when we talk about distrusting Minister Marić, it is extremely important for me not to stick to any impression of any inner feeling but strictly strict and well-known facts. It is also indicative that the Prime Minister has already left this defense, and what he was actually saying today was not very eloquent. It's just saying that where there's smoke, there's fire. So, Mr. Maric, the finance minister has been acting on this duty for the past few years is here because four years ago, he was rescued from his shift at the Croatian Parliament by Tomislav Sauch. It is a fact, therefore, that is a clear fact, that at that time Milanovic's former cabinet chief raised his hand against the finance minister's impeachment over what has been initiated and called off because of his involvement in the Agrokor affair. At that time, the vote ended in 75 and 75 and Maric was not removed. It is unlikely that this is why we can assume the same thing, but the consequences are clear, because it was important for the current government and the Prime Minister to retain power because of what was happening right before and shortly after in Agrokor. And this can be described in a simple dictionary, by withdrawing money from the company and sharing money with friends and associates from the Borgo affair. Just before the arrival of Agrokor, I will also point out one fact, Minister Maric was one of Ivica Todorovic's first associates who, after becoming Finance Minister as chairman of the Supervisory Board, was responsible for granting a large 400m kuna loan to Agrokor right before the stroke. It's also a fact. Afterwards, former head of Agrokor publicly accused Finance Minister Maric of stabbing him as a former employee, so that's what Ivica Todorovic said and became part of the Borg group that wrote the law to take Agrokor from Todorov and then draw the money. As Prime Minister Plenkovic himself was part of these correspondences, he had to approve every decision according to what Martin Dalic, not me, confirmed in her email replies, wrote about it in correspondence in e-mails, so that's also a fact. So the task of Plenkovic was in some way to politically protect all actors in the Borg affair, in the biggest affair in Croatian history. In this way, Plenkovic also protected Martina Dalic, who became soon after the shift of the boss of Podravka, so she was promoted, Minister Zdravko Maric became deputy prime minister, protecting them Plenkovic was actually protecting himself. Here we also heard in HS and not only in HS but also in expendable terms, I speak what I read, which is publicly available information and it would be good if the minister himself had denied or confirmed it if it was personally godfather-related to the president of HBOR Tamara Perko, so the HBOR that approves the loans, but what loans? It is obvious that HBOR approves loans for a group of selected because every entrepreneur in Croatia cannot come to these loans, it is the same fact. So HBOR's loans are like eats, they're said to exist, but no one has actually seen them. Is anyone aware of a small or medium-sized entrepreneur that he got HBOR's credit, and here a state official sitting here today boasted among us that HBOR meant last year he shared 1,000 loans totalling 3 billion kuna. And I'm asking you about the number of loans. So 1,000 credits split one bank business in a week. 3 billion kuna, well, that's a lot of money to me, so the question is, where is 3 billion kuna divided and to whom are they divided? And to whom they are divided they may shed light on a single quote also the fact that I quote from a single portal is called Telegram by the wind power plant Krš-Paden's affair on the approval of 600 million kunas in the same name affair. So I quote, quote, late January 2019. a message from Josipa Rimac arrived at the viber of Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. On January 25, they heard several times, and one conversation lasted more than 30 minutes, the topic was wind power plants in Krš near Knin. Now he is told by a vibero that she had a conversation with the owner of the wind power plant, Milenko Bashic, as agreed. Ask Maric to take him in for five minutes to define the model and dynamics. The meeting of Maric and Bašić will take place three days later in Maric's cabinet. When asked, Josipa Rimac, who should be there, Maric answers that Bashic wants to see it in private. Basic needed Maric because he was trying to get a huge loan from the state, and he had problems in negotiations with HBOR state bank, 10 days earlier, the HBOR chiefs made a series of negative comments about Bašić's companies and his demands, but the meeting with Maric seemed to have gone well, as we learn from the triumphal messages by Josipa Rimac and Gabriela Žalac. Two weeks after meeting with Minister Bashic's firm, he will receive an offer from HBOR to 80m euros, so 600m kuna. Maric is currently chairman of the bank's supervisory board that approves of state loans. So the end of the quote, this is quoted from one portal, so based on the statement. And now you have a situation where 600 million kuna is granted to one such company, 400 million Agrokor, that's almost a billion kuna, that's just two loans. And my question is where are the money for Croatian entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have to give their personal guarantees and pawn their assets to get credit from Croatian banks. It's the easiest thing to do and tell me you know you'd like to grant loans, but it's all bad banks that don't give us. It's something that's either directly or indirectly, but in any case, it's a very responsible minister of finance and the Prime Minister. So who is it up to to solve this problem and enable the Croatian economy to do normal business and start a normal investment cycle? I'm going to think of a recent example of high-grade drugs, so I'm only going to say what I know, just facts because I want to talk about them. You remember probably also the debt to the major drugstores when, when we actually had one video of the finance minister criticizing Minister Beros himself about the debt, I read at the time that this video was released with the intention of Marić showing himself in a positive context, I'm not saying anything, I don't know if it was done like that, what's also a fact that all responsibility for the debt of wholesalers was created. She was transferred to Minister Berosha. Well, it's not Minister Beros's only culprit, it's not that I'm defending him for the debt of large-scale drugs, and that debt isn't since yesterday, and it's certainly not the finance minister who's responsible for the functioning of the entire system that I need to know about the debt to the big drugstores, so that's the same fact, and that's something that I didn't absolutely like in that whole story. When we talk about facts like sitting on the shoulders of a Sibenik entrepreneur or taking a vacation on a yacht in that part I don't want to get involved, there are more than 1,000 words said there and that's something that probably Mr. Marić followed from the time he worked in the real sector. I repeat, I will not judge, I will not accuse anyone, but as politicians and as public figures, we must be aware that we are very exposed to this function, that we are much more vulnerable and that there must be much greater political responsibility. And in a more serious EU country simply after all these facts that are simply such, there would be no longer a moral obligation to be a minister, unfortunately in Croatia it remains a case. Just look at the example of Austria, when Kurtz left saying that Austria was more important than he was just because there were indications of abuse of position and authority, so no process has yet been conducted, nor has he become a suspect at that time. That is what I want to say, so in Croatia there is no personal political responsibility, and as long as it is not, Croatia will lag behind, we will be a country that will be at the beginning of the EU, only Bulgaria and the only formula to change this and that these things in the future are strong institutions, and especially the institutions of supervision. The formula is a clear, strong state of a strong institution, a successful state of strong supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69984	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State with an associate. Well, I have read very carefully the proposal to raise the issue of responsibility of Minister Maric, and I must say that at least as I look at the arguments, the facts, which are presented when the question of one minister's responsibility is raised must contain certain facts, certain documentation that burdens the minister seriously. And I have not seen in this proposal any of the facts or documents except what we could read somewhere in some media that wants to hit on Minister Maric. Minister Maric is one of the public primarily in the professional but in the general public of Croatia, one of the most popular politicians with whom the government is linked is certainly the successes it achieves on the economic plan and on the plan for the consolidation of public finances in Croatia. And what that means, I think that during today's debate on budget rebalancing very much we said very much, and that is that in the past five years Minister Maric has been the author of tax reforms that have relaxed, reduced the tax pressure on Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs more than 10 billion kuna, and during that time, as the reduction of this tax press in Croatia fell public debt on the one hand and on the other hand the deficit of the state budget was below 3% at one point we were in the surplus of the state budget. Not to say that by changing the income tax that the increased salaries, our fellow citizens under 25 were completely exempt from paying income taxes, that between 25 and 30 they paid half of their liabilities by income tax, that our entrepreneurs, large entrepreneurs, that their income tax rate was reduced from 20% to 18%, and 92% of all entrepreneurs in Croatia, that the rate was reduced to 10%, that we reduced VAT to energy, to medicines, food, etc., etc. and that these are the results behind the finance minister, that all this time because of this kind of adjustment of public finances that Croatia is from a single credit rating that was at the level of the trash, although I never appreciate it, through this covid crisis, the establishment of these same rating agencies as the state with the investment rating, which, in turn, draws a reduction in interest, and then the reduced interest rates on our citizens' loans and on the credits of our entrepreneurs, thanks to this credit rating, thanks to this settlement of the public finances Croatian budget and this year, compared to the time before Zdravko Maric, are less than 4.5 billion kuna for interest. So these are the results behind Minister Maric and I think he is perceived in the Croatian public as the most successful finance minister of Croatian independence. Now that we're talking about the work of that minister, I've been reading and what Mrs. Kristo and them 34 MPs are burdening him very carefully. I'm sorry I have to say what a lady is, there's no Mrs. Karoline Vidović Kristo here, when she has shown us that document of the Customs Administration since 9 July, it seems to me, in '21. That she didn't read it. I'm sorry, and I'm calling her when she comes back to read what's written in that customs administration document in the customs administration's decision of 9 July 2021. Which, according to her, strongly compromises Minister Maric to the extent that he should withdraw from the seat of the finance minister or that we should next Friday when we vote not to vote. For a time in my career, I was Secretary of State and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Port Authority of Rijeka, and I know very well what it means to be a ship supplier. So, the ship's supplier is a company that's registered for the supply of ships, either by fuel, by food, by flowers, or by bed linen, or by anything that serves the ship. And the concession approval to carry out these ship-supply operations gets every firm that meets the requirement, is such a chip-scander as they are called in the maritime sector in the port administration of dozens. The customs administration, therefore, when the company carrying out ship-supply operations meets the conditions for a customs warehouse where the goods will be taken over by vessels coming from international navigation must have a solution for such storage by the Customs Administration. Now, I can link it to that that the Customs Administration is part of the Ministry of Finance and is responsible for the Minister of Finance, but if this is a crime that the Minister of Finance should resign because he said in his statement that he did not please a friend with whom he was on the yacht then I think that we have introduced something in the Croatian public space that seems not logical to me, there is no, I do not believe that there is nowhere, because by that logic what his colleague Jeckov said earlier, the theme of that family, there is no man in Croatia who, in a direct and indirect way, is not related to customs, tax administration or the Ministry of Finance etc., etc. And it would be possible to draw certain conclusions from such links when it comes to other ministers and other resolutions and other powers and other jobs. Therefore, we expect the state officials, from top state officials, to act in accordance with the law by respecting their own integrity and the integrity of the government that represents them, but to bring down and submit a motion to launch a responsibility issue based on something which in no way compromises or raises the integrity of Minister Marić to me is unacceptable to me, and when it comes to Agrokor we are in this assembly, then Mrs Vidovic Kristo was not here as a representative, so maybe there is no institutional memory, we have talked about it many times. In numerous discussions in the Croatian Parliament in the last meeting of this house, we also talked about Agrokor and everything that we have done as a government and the ruling Croatian Parliament and the Croatian state have done when it comes to the affair, the Agrokor affair and the adoption of laws on commercial societies of systemic importance in Croatia. And then we testified that in all these procedures in which the government or HABOR decided on the financial situation of Agrokor from the moment when the finance minister became a minister, Zdravko Maric became a minister of finance in the government to be excluded when deciding on assets, loans, laws or anything that touched him, touched Agrokor himself. And in this way, the possibility was removed that at any time he was in conflict of interest, and the question was that he was no longer and we had no financial interest in the operations of Agrokor was able to make peace of mind about it. But it's preventative then so he wouldn't be able to be, to be that kind of behavior speculative with, to be singled out, to be excluded and not to decide on the loans themselves and other essential legal instruments that touched Agrokor. I remember that very well, and I also remember the debate about, interpellation related to the windfish Krsh-Pared. And that's where we talked about it. And here we talked about how and how the HABOR loan was granted, just before the minister talked about it, and I have nothing to add to that. Anyway, we're gonna go to the counsel club, we're not gonna back it up. A suggestion like this. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69986	Next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69987	My thesis, not only in this debate, but in this topic, is that HDZ has taken our country. Because having a state primarily means having institutions capable of performing institutional control and acting under their powers and tasks under the prescribed provisions of the Constitution and of the law. And our beautiful country of Croatia has long since been this way, if with your help and action it has ever been. Since the President of the Government had a bit of a commitment through the replicas even though he was no longer here in the assembly, I'm sure he's watching, so I'll tell him, too, if there wasn't an affair by the consulate, he wouldn't even be sitting where he is sitting right now. It was in his own time that he was the one who thundered at a party rally in front of all HDZ people that the party couldn't be the hostage of one man. He then thundered that top state officials were expected to expect the highest standards of transparency and impartiality, and all of you HDZs clapped on him then. But it was clear to me that behind this cover of a modern European politician who gave the impression that he was well directed into these ethical principles, politics and people of very dangerous intentions were hidden. And this is the destruction and enslavement of independent state institutions. And as Andreja Plenkovica would not have been without an affair of the consulates, so neither would I have been in political life if it hadn't been for the affair and the Borg case because on this occasion I had the opportunity to watch from the front row what was happening to these independent state institutions. And if the competent authorities had done their job on these three issues mentioned and touched in this proposal to establish trust or mistrust, there would be no need for us to discuss it now. The fact is, we've already touched Krsh-Paden's affairs once, and we've had an impelation about it, and I'm not going to spend this brief time discussing it. The fact is that in this case HDZ is relying on a slow and dysfunctional Croatian judiciary, so we will find out the epilogue in about 10, 15 or perhaps more years, if and then. The fact is that the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest was once powerful and serious, and I would say a very prominent institution, and today more or less in this anti-corruption area does not mean anything thanks to HDZ. If the commission had that authority and power and the power of action it once had, then in these three months, it would have been very quick and very easy to break up the summer affair on a famous yacht. In fact, from the very beginning, the story was misplaced and it went wrong. This is not at all about this, and it is not necessary to determine whether any favors of the Minister of Finance to an entrepreneur whose yacht it was. If such a plea is found, it is something that should be dealt with by repressive law enforcement authorities. We here at HS are talking about trust, but the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest has the authority and responsibility to determine that there has been a clear unequivocal receipt of an unauthorized gift from Art. The 11th of that law. So, what does the law say? He says that the services given without compensation that they bring or can lead to addiction or create a commitment to the donor represent something that a legal official cannot accept. That's one service that makes summers on a yacht. Yeah, the truth is, there's this little conundrum or the devil is always in the details, so that detail says that an illicit gift is not considered a gift received from a friend. And now we are asked by our competent state authorities and the judiciary to establish a legal standard who or what can or cannot be a friend in terms of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The fact is that such a definition does not exist, nor has it ever existed, but it is also a fact that a friend does not become a friend after you have become a minister of finance. Every prominent entrepreneur is in the interest of making friends with someone who is not only a finance minister, not just someone who is a member and chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board, but someone who is also a vice-president of the government and a member of the cabinet of the government through whom all the key decisions that this country is making are going through. In a country marked by being a clientelistic and unpotiously submerged country, having an influential country that you can call when you need it, it certainly gives you the motivation to make new friends. For this very reason, there is this provision on receiving illicit gifts, so the distinguished ministers are said to be present, and all of you who someday want to become one, that when you enter public duty from such newly-composed and newly created, and entrepreneurially powerful friends, you do not receive expensive gifts or vacations on their yachts. Some things an honest man, a wise man, a responsible man who understands the weight of his duty simply must refrain. And since I mentioned in the introduction that as there would be no Prime Minister if it hadn't been for an affair of consultants, neither would I if there hadn't been an affair of the Borg allow a little chronology of that case. In 2018, it was indeed like light years away and long ago, but some still remember that the decision to reject a criminal application was taken by the USOK during the term of office of the then chief state attorney Drazen Jelenić, whom we later understood and learned that he was a member of the secret society of the Masonic Lodge and as such completely unacceptable for the conduct of any level of state attorney's duty. And what's even more interesting, and what's somehow completely gone from public memory, is that during that period when a decision was made to reject the criminal application, we had the acting director at the position of the Director of UskoK, because then Tamara Laptoš, who was responsible for the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader and that year was declared to be the best state attorney, and then Masan Drazen Jelenic could not trust her to continue to act as Director of UsKOK's mandate, because after these many and only years of joint cooperation, he concluded that he would have to see whether or not they would click together, so as he clicked the DORH and how the clicks within the DORH acted we had the opportunity to see. In fact, the DORH found that it could not launch a prosecution because it does not see the connection between persons who, in secret chambers in late hours, participated in the creation of a law by which they later earned themselves as a special commissioner and elected consultant and what common sense sees the letter of the law and the DORH does not see. The Commission has thus become the only institution that can determine that there is something serious in the state, so the Commission is on January 11, 2018. made a decision to initiate proceedings against Minister Maric. The new assembly of the commission, which has been here for 3 months, cannot determine whether any receipt of the illicit gift has been suspended in just 2 months since the entry into office by Minister Maric because it has been established that all the meetings related to Agrokor informed his boss, Andrej Plenkovic. After all those powerful e-mails and transcripts of these ghastly secret meetings came out in the media, the commission was forced to re-open and restart the procedure after they had already suspended it, so they found that there was indeed a breach of the principle of action, and we know further that Andrej Plenkovic, through the constitutional court, collapsed and drilled until he brought down the law and authority of the commission to determine the violation of the principle at all. He, the same Andrej Plenkovic from the beginning of the story who said the party could not be the hostage of one man and that the official must adhere to the highest ethical principles until it came to him, until it was his turn and his ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69988	Injury of Rules of Procedure Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Vice President, ma'am. Oreshkovic hurt his ankle. 238. Rules of Procedure. Persistent Mrs. Oreshkovic is trying to accuse others of her violation of the law as chairman of the commission. Namely, all decisions on the violation of the principle of several courts in Croatia have been found against the law, and so the one who violated the law accuses those who defend the existing law and respect the law in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69990	Okay, that wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning. Next is a debate by Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69991	Thank you. I'm going to start by saying that we're surprised, yeah, maybe that's the best word surprised by the little recent appearances of the prime minister who's getting more nervous, the more boastful of the MPs and the more rude. I really don't see the point of his coming to the assembly if the only reason he's coming to the assembly is because he's insulting the MPs, I mean, we don't have any honor in particular if he comes here, he shouldn't come here, we shouldn't be talking about Minister Maric, I believe he can actually defend himself much better than the Prime Minister or his boss did. What your boss still did you as a bear service today is actually that he was talking here about the state cashier as HDZ's cashier and that he spoke here in a way that he knows very often and it's "state it's me" and then the ministers didn't do you any favors. I'm going to talk a little bit, so, except for these things that my colleagues used to talk about and who stayed out of trouble, and as far as the Borg affair that we were talking about today, about actually meetings where you were taking part, whether there were two or five of them, as Martina Dalic said, it was still not clear that neither the journalists nor we got a clear answer, as there was no answer, and you didn't want to deny whether you went to meetings with Mr. Todorov after there had already been a takeover of Agrokor as he claims, you didn't want to deny it, so we assume it was true, but we didn't imply what it was. However, I also wanted to talk about some of the things that concern your work that actually fall into inaction and not action. Today we talked here about budget rebalancing, and we saw that we did not use more than billions of kuna provided for in the Solidarity Fund this year. So it's about money to rebuild public buildings. So it's about money to rebuild schools, kindergartens, museums, so all possible buildings for public purposes, colleges. You see, to me, it's the fact that a year and a half of it hasn't been done in this city, but it's also been a year in Bania and we have five billion kunas that we got a year ago, here's the thing that we honestly have no worse. I know you're not the only one responsible for this, but the fact is that it's unforgivable. And that the whole government needs to be held accountable. And the fact is that although we are aware that people are still in containers in both Banja and Zagreb, that basic accommodation has not yet been ensured to people, that no renewal has been initiated, that it is not seen, other than what people themselves are doing and that for some things it was not a matter of law but a matter of will, that it was indeed the greatest crime of this government, I also told Prime Minister Plenkovic that what is next to Agrokor and covid pandemic was his political legacy. The EU funds are also, the use of EU funds is here, so 49% is published for Croatia, we are last in the EU, very often all ministers here praise the use of EU funds as if we are good, we are doing great, here is great, 49% last in the European Union. One of the things you haven't done, which I think is just as serious a responsibility is that it hasn't stopped or actually made it possible for the IRS to be actively too active to question the origin of the property, not just the official, not just the official, so we don't have that, that is, we have in public affairs where it is discovered that someone has stolen so much and so much, that all that time he's had so many apartments, so many houses, and he worked for 16,000 kuna, worked for 16,000 kuna, where none of us here who have very good wages, you all know that you can't have two apartments, three villas and four cars, and we have piles. And how it comes to that. And who controls it. And how it's possible that we don't have any more cases where in time we find out that it's actually potential-corruption crimes and that people ultimately have property four times bigger or five times what they're earning. Tax reform. You often boast of tax reform, about how the untaxable part of the salary has increased. It is of course good and that part we have also supported, but provided that the rest is gradually taxed because what was actually done is that you did not give up income as a state, incomes have lost JLS because income tax is in the most part of JLS' income and then we have alignments, fiscal alignments. Okay, for some, for those who thus do not achieve certain fiscal results themselves. And when you look at that list, and I've looked at it a few times, the fact is that most of the cities that don't get that alignment or that get zero are those cities where HDZ doesn't rule. No, I'm not saying at all that because HDZ doesn't rule there, so that's how it's been dictated, not at all, it's just saying that these cities are more developed and that unfortunately those who meet the criteria for fiscal alignment in the most part are HDZ municipalities. I say again, not because you don't give them because they're HDZ, but because they have bad indicators. So what I'm saying is, so the biggest cities in Croatia have lost a lot of their original incomes, but they're also not qualified to get back from the budget. Speaking of tax reform, a major tax administration action has recently been launched against the cobwebs. Now let's remember how we got that number of cobwebs. So pro-actively, this government funded people's self-employment by knowing that it was self-employment of the Facebook, or that it was people who might be able to find one of the two clients and do something for them, but actually it wasn't business and we all knew it, but it was kind of a help for people to go on self-employed. What's going on now? Now the tax administration's after them because if they're in a turnabout they can't have just one client, they'd have to have more, of course most of them don't. So we gave them the incentive, now we're chasing them to shut them down because they actually did what we all knew would happen. And when we said last year about tax reform that we can't have this tax system, that there can be no such difference between a tax system and a contribution to a non-permanent work in terms of forms of independent work and that we should actually have a synthetic form of taxation where all your income is collected at an annual level, you belong to a certain tax category, and on that basis you pay taxes and contributions, and so you would have a slightly different situation with health, and not a situation where someone can pay their salaries of 5,000 kuna and get a profit of 3 million, and pay contributions based on 5,000 kuna paid as a salary. So we did it with the tax system. You refused the possibility of so-called. I can't understand that. I can't understand that. I can't understand that. As well as reducing VAT to the heat delivered to make it easier for people this winter to overcome the high prices that are on the market, but not just for them. but to companies and all other economic operators. [[Intruder: Time]] Here, these are some sins of inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69992	The following is an individual debate and is the first respected representative, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69993	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know how to start, given that we have unusual situations in these interpretations, trying to show mistrust to certain ministers, that it's become some kind of sport where there are no rules anymore. Today we witness that we haven't had half an hour, obviously he went to some instructions, we see that he's completely unprepared, that when he reads everything he wrote to him afterwards, there's no reaction anymore, he can't say anything. The promoter is completely unprepared and has left this assembly. Just the way they suggested the point, we watched here Mr. Grmoja run to make him a proposing because they were dissatisfied that the promoter explained this attempt at all to prove his mistrust to Minister Maric. As we sue you for a yacht, but then we take away all the sins we've already discussed here since 2016, '17. '18, etc. What have they found? Nothing. Does Minister Maric have any solution to his conflict of interest? There isn't. Any charges? There isn't. What do we have here? Pure insinuations. We have these three articles from newspapers that they're calling on in this 3-page book and then we're going mud, mud, what we've heard from the promoters. Have you heard one sentence or her thought or the claim that he was complaining about being violent against a woman? Is that normal behavior? So where there's no honor of a politician to speak of, if you have an argument, if you have a document in your hand to talk about it. They have nothing. They're coming here, this is in transmission, this is being transmitted on four channels, this is what people are looking at. What have they got to see? Of the 34 promoters, everyone went to sleep and the promoter for half an hour, so I guess they came back because there's no debate without a proposing. There's nothing more to say and we have to wait for Friday to declare this. We won't vote because they'll get together like 50 each time. So where are these people, what they're dealing with besides trying to keep someone labeling, people who have nothing behind them, running away from themselves and having their problems, so there's no colleagues of hers here and she hid it because he passed the judicial process for corruption. To me like you wouldn't ask him what happened. So what are we talking about? Gentlemen, these are serious questions, when you attack the Prime Minister, you must be prepared to go into battle or you are a winner or you are a loser. And there's nothing here, no argument, we're thinking something. According to counterpart Oreskovic, the commission should have already been ruled. Mrs Natasa Novakovic gave her opinion on this and she knows it well. Who will prove to whom he is friend and in what way there is no act, no acts, nothing, but we are all guilty in advance when they accuse you worse than.../incomprehensible/... they have judged us in every way possible. It takes 30 years to hack this side, in every way possible. And we always have to apologize to someone for something. Look at this debate that looks like today when they organise a trust issue for one minister, not anyone, Deputy Prime Minister. Are you satisfied with this, are you satisfied with the lines here what they look like? Those who have signed, the Homeland Movement sleeping, MOST gone to sleep, gone, sovereigns have nothing to say, center here we're gonna say something, green-left block something they said and we'd go somewhere. Because this can't be defended. Of them who attacked, with arguments like this, that are nowhere to be found, nothing. What should we ask them? Do they mind their conflicts of interest that have been ruled? You know what they say, we don't mind if they're our colleagues, that's not the reason for any resignations. We're not going to have to have an interpretation or a question of trust between our colleagues, and so everyone here has kind of split up and split up. But when that workshop, as I say here, often some evil works, things like this happen. And now I don't know 11 and a half of us are discussing this at night. And when the prime minister says that there are no grounds they'd be discussing the whole 10th thing if you noticed. They don't even talk about what was written there anymore. It's inconclusive, gentlemen, this isn't how a matter of trust is done to anyone, let alone the Minister. [[Intruder: Time.]] or the vice president of the government. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69994	We have replicas, the first one is Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69995	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, you've said everything exactly. I would just repeat what the proposer said in the opening statement. So she said the fact that we're discussing this proposal today is evidence of corruption. So that's wrong first, we're discussing this proposal because that's what Article 125 says. Rules of Procedure. You might say, unfortunately, given this preparedness as you yourself mentioned in the introduction. I'd just say something on the legal side, so maybe I'll even let myself have a lawyer on this proposal if we look at it as some kind of lawsuit, like some kind of application. Then we know what she has to have. It has to have facts, it has to have allegations. What does this proposal have? He because a full phrase like there is a possibility, it is possible, influenced, undeniably, against the rules, but there is no argument, no proof, no proof of it. What would the court do in such a case? He'd throw this away. This is not at all subject to any discussion. But we're discussing it. This is clearly evidence of democracy, but it's an amazing ease in which here lies, fabricating facts, ultimately slandering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69996	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69997	Thank you very much fellow Habib, one more word you have forgotten that may be the most important. How many times have you heard me say tonight? Apparently, we heard it, it's supposed to say somewhere, we reportedly saw it. Nothing. That's what people who care about their political careers do, and they don't want to run over a man and blacken him here in public and say what's said, without any proof. There isn't. And then what do they do? They're back on their way back to interpretation. What from the interest of Krsh-Paden? We discussed it in the Croatian Parliament, 50 voted for, so 2/3, 1/3 did not come to the vote at all. So much for their interest in it. And when you claim that there is everything in accordance with the law and that the rest of it is not to be investigated by the institutions, they continue to do so in the assembly. And of course they always try the same way, but they pass. I say, you'll see on Friday. What it's gonna look like. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69998	Marko Pavić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u69999	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, dear fellow Boric, so here I am also in a bizarre situation, there is no opposition, they sleep, the way the interpretation is described below each level. This morning we had a debate on the rebalancing of 9% of GDP growth in this year, in 2 years we will leave the crisis, we are going to EUR 25 billion available, and here we can see from the replicas, opposition only a few replicas, that this is the crying of the Most and PTSD for 2016 when they fell out of the government, when they are no longer in power to join the circus Mrs. Vidović Kristo, who is absolutely unprepared for the Krš-Pajene, and they are still joined by the Social Democrats. As you comment on this love that goes on, this circus, and the left and right in the assembly that they are so unprepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70000	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić. How do I comment? I think I've said everything I think. So they've gathered around some attempts to make something and be important and interesting to themselves because they can always start certain discussions. When we come to these discussions, they try to apologize, they leave the battlefield or this assembly, they have no arguments, and the proponent disappears for half an hour, I guess new instructions or something new written and we read it here to say what we think about something I've already written. So it's completely unserious. Because they respect these arguments to replace people just because it's done to them by some kind of evil or trying to get revenge on someone because in another time they weren't so important when they thought they were. When we hear and what they've been doing, which is some new information today and we'll check it out so that we know then who's the mayor or the boiler boy of this whole story, so he's gone a little bit, here he is on my call back it's okay, but I'm saying this is bad. For in this way is not treated [[Intruder: Time]] politicians, especially those responsible [[Intruder: Time]] for the most important functions in the country. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70001	Next individual debate, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70002	Dear Vice President, he would say to the respected prime minister and respected minister, but neither has any, colleagues and colleagues. This debate is actually a matter of trust, a question of opposition to power, a question of citizens' trust in politics, and that is, in fact, the key issue. All these allegations that my colleagues had previously presented were written in the media, the minister to most of them did not respond in due time or enough to avoid the issue of mistrust. But I won't repeat what my predecessors said, they say that everyone scratches there and itches, and in a way I've always been itchy by Zagreb. I have long called the minister from the city assembly that he is one of those responsible for the Zagreb task. Today we see, and many wonder as a chicken of rainworm 8.2 billion in debt. Each of these duties came to the Ministry of Finance and was approved there. That's what's true. The prime minister here today from this speaker told counterpart Bencic de facto that he should be grateful that the finance minister and he approved a loan to the city of Zagreb to bridge liquidity. Unbelievable. I never heard him from this pay phone once that he told Milan Bandic then 8.2 billion that someone should be satisfied with it. The second thing, I came from this booth about 6-7 months ago when the minister was last called on the minister to do the opposite of the law, not to respect the law passed by this HS, and these are the deadlines for payments in health, and the minister presents them publicly every day. This is a simple question. We passed the law, the government enforces it and the government doesn't respect it. That's the problem with the minister. And the third thing that itches, 3.5. The minister is responsible for concessions, he answered his letter to the other minister in time regarding the construction of the third degree of purification, which is an expensive story in the City of Zagreb where the ZOV had a 50% profit per year in relation to income and de facto in that letter almost allowed the concessionaire to continue to earn such a profit which was contrary at that time to the Law on concessions and the Water Act adopted by this HS. He was warned about that. I'm saying, I don't want to talk about what's written in the media, I'm going to talk about what's kind of itchy, and that's the City of Zagreb. Today we see what financial situation the City of Zagreb is in, and the state knew all of it, and I'm going to have to sort of control it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70003	Next is a debate by the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70004	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, dear fellow ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, Cardinal Milingo, perhaps some of you know who he was, I'll explain it to you, but it's still my profession, a little philosophy and theology on this late night, but it'll explain the plastic state we live in and what we're dealing with. Cardinal Milingo was an exorcist of the Vatican, I think he has 3-4 colleges, two PhDs, the man Pope John Paul II chose personally, personally to be d-men, d-men, the one of his most trusted. Cardinal Milingo, author of countless books, face-to-face with the devil, means countless books and Cardinal Milingo, I will shorten his entire résumé, suddenly not that he fell, but a man fell in love with there some woman from one sect of Pastor Moon and left the Catholic Church, left Pope John Paul II, betrayed everything and turned his back on everyone. A supreme intellectual, a decent man, chosen by the Holy Pope, so if the Holy Pope can make a mistake, then how can we guarantee that someone who runs a party can't make a mistake? So here and here, so here, HDZ. Now I'm going to tell you, Janaf affair, multimillion-dollar damage, wind power affairs, multimillion-dollar damage, hot mail affair 500 million kuna, tunnel coloring 4.3 million kuna, Verona 70 million euros affair, Salonite 100 million affair Stone Ingrad 60 million, affair Imostroy Bechtel 6 million, Brodosplit 27 million affair Slavonska Banka 150 million affair, Sunčani Hvar 571 million affair still has Đakovština 555.7 million affair INA MOL 10 million affair HPB 255 million affair 27 million affair Medicol 230 million affair, Spice 400 million affair, affair Mountain 70 million, affair HAC 25 million affair, HEP 650 million affair, FIMI media 70 million. Well, we're good to have brothers and sisters, we're good to live, so we're good to exist, so we're good to exist in space at all, that this little point of our planet Earth and on that land our beautiful Croatia has been stolen and anointed in this country, and these are the facts, these are the judgments. This is the money that's drawn, and that's the minister, and we ask him friendlyly, so we really don't go to the ad homing bar at the MOST Club, we ask you to explain to us, explain to us because someone showed us some paper, said what's happening to him, what's going on here, and said that you're going to support a man to come in front of us and tell us what's going on, and we know that corruption is this way to get us down, we know that it's melting us down, and we're going to have flowers in the company, everything's nice, it's all good, it's nothing with us, so it's nothing man and we're sinking. Let's let go of these stories that every party comes to, and maybe someone else is, so say fairy tales, pet people's eyes, but we're interested in the truth and what you've told your colleagues before, let's shake everything out, MOST, make everything go away, whatever's wrong, let everything go away by the prophet Isaiah, let everything that's wrong, MOST God forbid it's gone. Oh, my God. And if there's any such thing as Nikola, if there's dirt, let it all come out. If there's dirt, make it go away. And I don't want anyone to disappear here, to be clear, to HDZ or SDP, I don't want anyone to get hurt because I want everything back, but I just want the truth to come out, and we're interested in the truth whether Minister Maric was honest or not. If he was honest, I'm sorry, we're going forward. If he wasn't fair, he'd fit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70005	Just keep an eye on the pay phone. It'll take more. Replica, dear Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70006	Marine, I'm about to interfere with your profession right now, but you know the Gospel of John well, right, that's how the truth will set you free. And that's the key word. The truth will get rid of you. You'd better not hear about it, better, especially Marko Pavić. In addition to all the money you've been counting, this HDZ ends up on Mark Pavic and perfumes for his friends and ties. And now he's reporting here and giving lectures, shame on you, shame on you. So the truth will set you free, that's what connects us and connects you because you're contaminated with petty cash. How... /incomprehensible/... Marine, who's that? Toma Aquinsky. So, we'd say the quantity gives birth to quality, but unfortunately the quantity gives birth to not quality, the birth of Mark Pavić who last day for his friends buys ties and perfumes and that's what connects us, the truth, and you said well, that's what Bencic said, give it all, search us all CT scan, UZV scan [[Intruder: Time.]] Let's start with Mark Pavic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70007	We have a breach of Rules of Procedure Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70008	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. A fellow insult at a personal level, I don't know what upset him so much that I said that they along with the Most there as Social Democrats or SDP I don't even know what option you are anymore, I don't know, I don't know who it is anymore, part of you isn't part of But this is on a personal level absolutely. [[Intruder: Please do not communicate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70009	Don't communicate with each other, don't communicate with each other, and I'll give you a warning. Marko Pavić reminder Answer the line, please. [[Is it okay if I do?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70010	My colleague, I know that emotions are great and it's always passion where it means something to you, so I understand, I understand colleagues in this party, it's like having a baby in your brother, so when you have a kid, it hurts somewhere, and it's hard for you to admit that it's your fault, that you're co-responsible, I've been a classmate for 16 years, 14 years in high school. Parents always, and it's not my fault and everybody's guilty but it's not his fault and he at least has part of the responsibility. As far as the truth is concerned, says John Paul II, a journalist asks him why all the Bibles of this world should disappear and that everything goes away which sentence he would take with him wherever you go, into space, and says the Holy Pope the truth will set you free. We just want the truth. I'm going to say one more time, let the Most disappear, now I'm going to sign, let it all go out on each and every one of us so that we can move on, you and I and all of us together, disappear, what's wrong. and move on. [[Intruder: Time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70011	Next replica, respected Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70012	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Miletic almost ran out of tears while we were downstairs listening to Mr. Boric and his flattering every sentence spoken by the prime minister and his warm defense of Mr. Maric in whose guilt and also his innocence I cannot enter because I am new in the whole story. However, if Dr Ivo Sanader, who is a large majority of the people of opposition and from the ruling of the day, were to be known in the morning, they were able to defend him, and then, after the verdict, they denied him to the extent that he had followed, I updated 30 of their life-savings in the range of four hours to avoid being contacted by Dr. Eve Sanader, honor the exceptions. I'm afraid Ministers will care for you, and so will Andrej Plenkovic. in a large group of people [[Intruder: Time.]] where the alpinism dominates is waiting for the same fate. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70013	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70014	All I know is, life taught me. Yes, whenever I was born, I fell into the greatest mud of my life, and I was arrogant, I was arrogant. I apologized to you here the same way, I remember my first performance, and I'll never forget it while I'm alive. I don't mean, I can be sure I'm right, but anything can be said differently. And while I'm alive, I wear it and it's mine and I'll wear it. And I think whoever's being arrogant and arrogant is not even aware that he's already headed for his fall. Only maybe he's currently intoxicated in the pedestal position thinks he's untouchable. Life taught me, you know it all deep in your heart that it's true. The moment you become arrogant, arrogant, and that's why I don't like the way you do. Our prime minister because he's also my prime minister talking to us. I would, for example. I totally talked to my colleague differently, no matter what I could slap you, I disagree, but I would disagree otherwise. I've been acting. [[Intruder: Time.]] I don't like that pride.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70015	Next replica, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70016	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague, I have already, on several occasions, commented on your discussions, and indeed here is what I think is interesting, hearty, hearty, full of emotion, you are particularly temperamental tonight and I have no objections to that. On several occasions, you pointed out the need to tell the truth and bare us all together in proving the truth. And of course this interpretation should also be directed towards what Zdravko Maric did wrong. At least 10 affairs you counted, for the sake of the public, it would be good to be aware whether you are directing them all towards Zdravko Marić, whether you are binding all these affairs upon him. I know you don't, but we should explain it in the replica now. As for haughtiness and pride, Zdravko Marić certainly is not, I have many of us from HDZ who are not, but the way we are Some speak do not serve [[Intruder: Time, time.]] It's an honor to them and not to them. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70017	I apologize to you, too, if I've ever hurt you. And I also think of Minister Maric, I think that, that what people were saying there was really a man, the Minister means if I ever hurt you I apologize. So I really think in that, so I think it's our job to question and that, to be quite clear, I've already said it here in performances, I don't believe that any party, regardless of this verdict, to be quite clear, that the party as a party, you understand, so the people who are in that party are fair or unfair, criminal or not, means and no, as I say there can be no legal object there who is part of that story and I was very clear there. And this affair that you've said, so I've listed all the affairs in terms of fear and fear, and in that fear, we're questioning everything that's going on around the minister, and we're asking him to answer whether it's gonna work out and move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70018	Thank you. Individual debate next, respected Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70019	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the State Secretary, so here's a really weird situation for me to talk today about impeachment especially after this morning what we talked about and the rebalancing when we established and projected 9% GDP growth, when we saw the government's successes to talk today about the recall of one of the most popular ministers, one of the ministers who just assured this government that we have these results. I also know him as a colleague in the government we served and I know at the human level, and also at the professional level that he is one of the best ministers, if not perhaps the best finance minister in Croatia's history. When we talk about results, and I wouldn't go into this pamphlet because there's really nothing out of it, we see that we had 3 years of surpluses, 3 years of surpluses, but also solidarity, Christian solidarity. Whenever we talked about pensions, the minimum wage was the money, but it made sure we had a surplus. Also, great success in the ERM II exchange rate mechanism on the Eurozone path. Last year's credit swap of EUR 2 billion prior to the entry into the euro area from the European Central Bank speaks enough about the reputation of Croatia and you personally in Brussels and also in credit institutions. 3 times the rise in credit ratings compared to the last government, the drop in debt by 4.2%, 4 or 5 rounds of tax reform that you have provided and the frameworks for growth of average wage 25% for young people not to pay income tax are certainly government successes and your contribution. So I'm surprised by this conglomerate and the opposition that doesn't have at all tonight, I don't know what you've been so offended by Mr. Ostojić at personal level, that you're so personally attacking, but here I'm going to read the names that have been signed if you haven't, so he signed Mr. Vukas, Mr. Davorko Vidovic, whom I greatly appreciate but as a former minister I simply don't believe that he signed such a pamphlet, Katica Glamuzina, called Brumnic, many others, when I say that this is a nice agreement between MOST and Social Democrats, I think it stands. Also, an agreement where Mrs Vidovic Kristo joined with some personal attacks on Minister Maric, who is absolutely not standing. Not once did the Committee of Conflict of Interest condemn him, the successes here are very clear governments, and this whole impeachment is bizarre, which I will no longer believe on Friday with 40 votes against Minister Maric, even this impeachment, this pamphlet from which the first article turns out that practically Minister Maric cannot drink coffee with himself because in a conflict of interest he did not sign a good part of the opposition and there are none tonight, here they are, an empty assembly. I'm glad there's Mr. Grmoy back and the MOSTs, at least we like to discuss with them, but here's the whole left-hand side gone. Also, the next 10 years, 25 billion EU funds are at our disposal. It's also the government's success. When we set out to negotiate the multiannual financial framework, we should have received 2 billion euros less simply because we crossed 60% of the EU's development in 2017. Not only did we make up for the arguments and 2 billion, but through the Recovery and Resistance Programme, we provided an additional 10 billion, which means we have 2 and a half times more funds over the next 10 years. Along with preserving credit ratings, entering the eurozone, tax reform, opportunities for young people, that is all the success the government has made and the good part is the responsibility of Minister Maric. So I think the minimum we can do together with this morning's debate is give him support for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70020	Next is the debate of the respected Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70021	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, so as we know, Minister Maric has a very responsible role as Deputy Prime Minister and the most important portfolio of the Ministry of Finance. He is a successful minister, professional and competent, and from personal experience and as a first associate, they can very much confirm that. What in yours, what in professional work, and I've had years of experience, and I've worked very well, and I've been working together, shut up as I speak. Therefore, all that he has done so far, we can testify that he has worked extremely consciously and correctly. [[Intruder: Please do not communicate.]] What he has achieved together with us in his work has very significant results and no one can dispute. What's happening now in this attack and trying to discredit it is something that we can actually degrade because it's pointless and it doesn't actually have any arguments. Here, the question arises whether such a man has the right to have an entrepreneur friend and to question whether or not he is guilty. Well, people that's funny, so you're actually putting on a pillar of shame all entrepreneurs and you're swearing on big investments, in great progress, you're actually notoral zeroes. And that's what needs to be said clearly and loudly because not to create exactly these trusts, these merits and this way because you're going into other people's lives that's what's scariest. I could state here everything that says about you, Mrs. Kristo, about your career, etc., but it's below my level. Therefore, my party that holds first to what it does, how much it achieves and what the results are, and so does this minister who doesn't deserve it. So I think this, this, this, this mud that you're hitting on is actually below each level and you'd be smarter to get to work and do quality and good work and to do everyone in the interest of Croatia and Croatia as this man has been trying for 5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70022	We have one replica, dear Marin Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70023	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues must be digressions. So the position of our opposition and the position of someone in power is not the same and you need to know that. My position, which I've been a parliamentary representative for a year and a half and the minister's position, means it's not the same. There is immeasurable power in the hands of the minister, immeasurable and that, that knows the child in elementary school, let alone the parliamentary representatives here. And that's why we have the legitimate right to question even who I'm hanging out with, who I'm going to dinner with, whether I'm on some expensive yachts or a tent on an island, which is why the public has the right to question, and then any of my colleagues here, power and opposition. So it's legitimate, it's legitimate. So, we shouldn't be upset here right now, so we have the right to ask, the minister has the right to say it or not, the services are doing their job and it's democracy and let's build it together and you here and we here. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70024	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70025	That's right, it's a democracy you have the right to question, but you have to have just as good arguments to question it, and when the arguments aren't high-quality then it's normal for us on this side, where you think we have great power, we actually have to say our arguments because in all this career I've experienced that every time there's anything suspicious anywhere that he might have been in some conflict of interest, he's never been in any kind of voting and has never broken the code of ethical behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70026	Next debate, respected representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70027	Thank you, ma'am, for cleaning up these drops because when I hear these notoral zeroes and what this MP said, it's a disaster. The finance ministry is responsible for preparing and implementing government fiscal policy, based on policy records and finance ministers around the world. Its aims are to contribute to the stable growth of the country's economy, in this case Croatia, to increase prosperity, quality of life, quality of life, not to talk about notor zeroes and nonsense and employment for all citizens, in this case Croatia, and therefore we can discuss today whether the finance minister did or did not. I have to be honest, and I said this before that I would vote because it says further, one of the most important jobs of the minister is the preparation of the state budget and the management of budget incomes and expenditures, or taxpayers' money. That's why I said it and I'll say it again, I'll vote against rebalancing, but I expected more from this debate and, of course, until I saw and heard everything I heard I wouldn't vote for the Minister's recall. I just don't see any reason. Evidence based policy. He only has to do his seas, he must hide the indifferences of this Pavić and the Tramics. Today, the European Court of Auditors, led by HDZ Miletic, has said that we are 49%. There's his credit. The master. Caroline, I must be honest, Mrs. Vidović Kristo I listened very, very carefully, did not Mrs. Vidović Kristo, nothing came to my table, this document 3.7.2021, so if you can deliver it to me. I've heard a lot more from Nikola Grmoi, who I greatly appreciate, I highly appreciate, he's chronologically, taxively quoting some links, and we see things with this link. We see some husbands were cleaning guns. Right? There you go. See, they were cleaning guns, right? So we see a lot of things on these links so that there's a completely chronologically clear statement that they were hot phones, Tamara Perkov is obviously a key person, Nikola, like Tamara Laptoš, I think great about her. Mrs. Vidović Kristo commended me, I think, I think it is a pity that she still or someone else or Oreskovic, Dalia Oreskovic, seemed to praise her. Too bad she went to Europe without staying with us. There'd be fewer ties, perfume and other nonsense. Too bad she didn't stay here. So in short, he worked at Ivica Todorovic's, so you worked at Kazimir Bačić's, too. There is no Rasudiæ family, so I am sorry that I will have to mention them, so they have made their entire career under Kazimir Bačić, so they are not responsible, neither, nor are they responsible for the marifetllukes of Kazimir Bačić. I'll fight you nod, but I'd better not look back on your argument. So don't do it 'cause you're gonna ruin it. So... Not to mention the SDP, which has 14 MPs, one of whom is under USKOK's indictment. [[Stain Sanader: Please do not communicate with MPs.]] Bencic Sandra as probably an agnostic and our Marin Miletic as a believer and a believer have generally found themselves on the same side. The truth will set you free, that's it. I support that. Scan us, look at us, don't run away from it, but don't answer the arguments, and don't answer the ones that are contaminated. At least shut up, be polite, shut up. Shut up for your party. You recognized yourself, Mrs. Boric? So you recognized each other? She doesn't answer to me, I don't answer to her. [[Snadder: Please do not communicate.]] She recognized herself. [[So don't look at her.]] Minister, tax administration, covid, nuthouse, you've done me. So modernise the IRS, two years ago, a year ago. Send that tax return solution or overpaid tax, nice e-mail, we don't have to mail that mail, ask for more. Okay? I came on the road and said the card wasn't right and then I realized that you'd done me because I didn't pay back the money in time. I can't, we can't have Croatian citizens getting some kind of note that we live in the 19th century. Yeah, and when we have e-citizens and other things, right? And then, fortunately, I realized I didn't get a tax solution for that current year, so I assumed that, you see, I was executed by a man. Modernize that administration a little bit. And the IRS should deal with all of us. Tax is "Smoking," welcome, welcome. Well, of course, I paid, I paid the debt because his IRS isn't good, I guess, but it's not up-to-date.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70029	Here's a esteemed colleague, dear Vice President, who answered the line primarily because of the ugly comment you made for her colleague Grodjana Peric that she was there, to wipe out all the drops of lies that she was there, I think it was from one doctor, even if it was too late, and even if you're nervous, it's not the level. As for the European funds, come by tomorrow at 11:00 for a joint session of the 3 committees. We will discuss the results, you will also see that this year 23.5 billion, next year 31.5 billion are planned to have 122%, 60% of the payout, that also European funds are going very well and that no Eurocent will be used. But here I invite you to maybe be a little bit more correct, my colleague Peric, I don't think that was correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70030	I'll come to that, though. As far as the European funds are concerned, please contact Mrs. Miletic, vice president of HDZ, she gave that grade, not me. I didn't tell her about her lies. I told her about what she called some people who signed it with notor zeroes, so for God's sake, what's wrong with you. That's all I said, look at the phonogram. So all the people who signed it have reason to sign it, they've declared it very passionate, very passionate, and even defended it, explained, they didn't insult anyone on this side, but they're passionately loving justice, and she was quoting St. Augustin, and if justice doesn't win, then the state government is this one, they just wanted to come to some data, and that's our right, but we're not the ones who signed it, so I'm defending them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70031	The next replica honours Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70032	My colleague, you are extremely relativizing this particular thesis in your presentation. I'll react to one, and that's when you said, so there he was, the employee of Agrokora. There are a lot of Agrokor employees, but you are constantly going over the fact that falsifying the balance sheet versus investors is the most severe criminal offense in the business world, you are non-chalantly going over the fact that when the CNB says no bank can credit Agrokor because it is over-indebted, HBOR gives triple E rating. That's what you relativize and it's dangerous to relativize such things and send messages to the public, so you're the employee of Agrokora, 200 million kunas are not charged concessions for the island of Smokvica, the tax administration didn't even send a notice, so where do you live, sir?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70033	Croatia, Maksimir, I even work there on Rebra, to answer your second question. So the first question, my great friend, is Zlatko Daliæ, that's great. The honorable family, I know his father and mother, you know what he did, he got an offer of a couple of tens of millions of euros and he refused and works here safely for a few tens of thousands of euros. I'm not defending Zdravko, but if you believe all these links and what you're saying, he refused to offer one of the most likely powerful corporations in Croatia and could make more money annually than I will see in my life, a few years ago. He did, of course he took that famous Vangelic, and you were very happy with him. He took that position as chairman of the INA Supervisory Board and is leading you to rebuild Zagreb. He didn't do it dude, I don't know why, like Zlatko Daliæ, ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70034	Please, bush mask. - Mrs. Crescent. Kristo also doesn't hold a mask at all. ... Okay, but don't hold the mask all the time. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Individual debate next to Goran Ivanovic. ... No, the lady gave up. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70035	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and the Honorable Minister. To start a little poetry. There are 30 or more of them on the list, but they did not come because of the wind and the rain. It could be consciousness of that 34-present denominator, there were 5-6 people here in the assembly, all right, fair and square. I think life is about perception. It is perception that essentially shows where we are as a society, whether it is a perception in general or a perception of an individual. I come from a small village, there are 1500 inhabitants, we all know each other, we know and what political orientations are, and then when I come to that village guesthouse, sometimes there's a story about politics and people who run systems, which I think is very important. One of the names pronounced with great respect is Minister Maric's name. People who don't follow politics aren't as involved in politics as we are, but based on that perception and what a man's been doing in the last 5 years. They say it's a man who's done a lot, and finances are an important segment of governance for the Croatian state, and they say it's something good that happened to the Croatian state in these last 5 years, and we've been listening to it since this morning since half, half 10 when we discussed budget changes, we've heard about all the reforms that the government of the Republic of Croatia has implemented with Andrej Plenkovic, but of course also with Minister Maric, whom even part of the opposition, I would say even most of the opposition, respects as a financial expert. But there are people who want to throw mud at everyone. We don't like people who do good, good for Croatia. We don't need that, they're uninteresting, they need to be torn down, they do good, we need those who can call themselves here for some, some of the affairs that are listed here, so we've heard about Slavko Linić, some of the people who used to be, and we've heard very little about the man who's been sitting here honestly since the half-ten this morning, and he's been listening to all this stuff that some of us wouldn't swallow very easily. Often here the thesis is used as the opposition has the right, though the opposition has the right, no opposition, every representative has the right to speak and express his views, but he has no right to mud and drag people into the mud just so much that something is happening. And just to say one more thing that's often been spinning around here as a thesis, I haven't been here for 1.5 years and I spend a lot of time here in the Parliament and mostly I listen, mostly I listen to what's being said. HRT transmissions here are the transmissions, the 4 HRT program conveys the session of the Parliament, and that's the contribution of the man who recently came to the HRT, who was about to be wet here in 100 things. Croatia simply does not like successful people. Why don't we like successful people? Why don't we like people who know? They can do good to everyone, not the opposition, not the position, but the Croatian society, that's the point, that's our contribution to Croatian society is just what we do, to do good. There's too much of that word being said here, and a little of you, or a little of it holding on to us. Some don't come to the Croatian Parliament for three months, pay every month and then come from a dream here and teach the man who works from morning to night. Not for his own good, said Mr. Ostojić so he could make a lot of money, work here for 20 and more thousand kuna. And it bothers someone, it bothers someone. He doesn't work for himself, he works for society. But there he was riding on some kind of yacht. It's a crime in Croatia, being on a yacht with your friend and drinking coffee with your company, not doing it, you need to isolate yourself, live in a monastery. So give it to my men. We have a man, we hold on to a man, he will hold on to us, and I think it's the only message we need to feel as something that can bring good to the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70036	Replica Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70037	My colleague started the license, and he emphasized it, and I think you're wrong that perception is the best key feature. I think it's the worst, because perception is a subjective reflection of objective reality. That is the definition, so you are subjective and that is the problem of Croatian politics. Which we don't do programs, and I'm a doctor, if you were to do perceptions of her how much mortality she would have been. But we're doing something called speaking a foreign language/working evidence-based medicine, and that's something I've tried in the last 20 years, and you're gonna make it younger. Because we work politics on evidence, evidence, paper, responsibility, facts, and leave perception for something else. It's basically a mistake, and it's on the left and on the right. Let us go easy when it's a mess, we'll have some Ustashas and partisans, and now we'll have some vexers and novices. And that's the goal, it's not going.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70038	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70039	Thank you very much. I'm still standing by that thesis that perception is very important, only there are different perceptions. This is about good perception. I'm talking about this perception based on the results of someone doing something, I'm talking about that perception. I'm not talking about virtual perception, about the perception of some individuals who want to transfer that perception to this thing that you're talking about. Therefore, perception is very important, it is very important. I think we have here what should be a Croatian reality, that we've created a perception of someone based on something he's been doing for the past five years. And if people perceive it and say it's good, it's something that brings good, then I don't think it's the perception that you're talking about, even though I agree that there are other perceptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70040	The next replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70041	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I didn't mean to answer, but I will, after some enjoyed their five minutes of fame for that pay phone, muddling one of the best ministers since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, a man who certainly respects both the right and left political public, a man who has certainly received the largest number of votes, the number of votes many here in this assembly could dream. This government, headed by the finance minister, has achieved significant results in the consolidation of public finances, the preservation of the economy, the health system, the tax system, rationally manages its finances. He's spent five rounds of tax reform, he's unloaded the economy, there's a lot of it, and his only sin tonight is to hang out with friends, hang out with people who don't have a tax debt, who don't do business with the state, and I don't think it's a sin to hang out with friends. Friends should never be betrayed, those who betray them know what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70042	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70043	I don't have much to add to this distinguished representative Maxime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70044	And there's nothing to add, I thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70045	Oh, no, but I'll add a little more, I've got 46 more seconds of this. Well, maybe there's something that I agree with all of this, so I don't want to be around it much, but as far as I've noticed, and I think I can understand so much, that this here is essentially about some solidarity of opposition. I'll sign for you, you sign for me. And that's all, you can tell from this. 34 signatories sitting here five or six. You're gonna sign something else for me tomorrow, then we're gonna do something else for you, but there's no more of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70046	Next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70047	My colleague Ostojić said something about perception, I actually raised a line to it. Says an old folk suit makes a man in every village except his own, it's a matter of perception. I have repeatedly objected to this government's very creation of perception through the PR, not based on any arguments. I can fully agree with you and it is more or less than anyone who knows Mr. Marić from the profession, that he knows his profession and that he does well. That's what I think most people in this room have no problem with. What appears to be a problem, I said in my speech and in part concerns this perception of yours, which is a question which is a question of non-relations to this job or in some way your perceptions of the integrity of politics and Ours is to ask you, the government is to answer, let's put it that way. [[Intruder: Time]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70048	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70049	Thank you very much. And it will become a perception when you ask, and the government is responding and there is no speech at all, after all, we can replace this word “perception” with “public change”, it is quite no matter, but we will still come to the same, that this same public change has an opinion that mostly in 99% of the cases positive not about Minister Marić as a man, but as an expert who manages Croatian finances and not in easy times. That's the point of that public change. I would like to have such more public changes as this about Minister Maric is then people bring a court and then say I believe it not based on the story from HS but on the results that man has achieved in the past 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70050	Next replica, Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70051	Comrade Lac, what conditions do you consider.../Laughter/...forgive Ivanovic, what conditions and facts have affected Mr Zdravko Marić's election as Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia? Perhaps because he was born in Slavonski Brod, perhaps because he is a doctor of science, perhaps because he won the previous parliamentary elections last year of 22,000 preferential votes or perhaps because he is conscious, quality and responsible in the conduct of his duties, please respond and comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70052	Well, probably, this latter and last, it should be, but it's all, it's all a sequence of something, it wouldn't have been Mr. Maric's 22,000 preferential votes that he didn't deserve, that he was voted for by people who weren't perhaps the same political and ideological beliefs as he is, but they recognized in him something good in that Croatia and where we're lucky that we're right here, and we're on the first line of defense when it comes to better, better Croatia, we're more working on not muddying people and dragging them into the mud than we're trying to put the system of excellence that we're all talking about on a higher level and then in the Croatian government and in HS people who have these very references.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70053	Next replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70054	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivanovic, we have already discussed work and perception a lot. I personally believe that work, good work also creates a good perception, which does not mean that even the nelados can also create perception and many deal with it in this assembly as politicians, there are instruments and tools as it is done. And this today is one of the tools that you're trying to work on yourself in a way that you're muddying each other and you're creating a perception that you're a judge, that you're a prosecutor and you're making a verdict and you're making claims that they're sad about without any blinking, that's what it is, that's what we need to end up with, maybe this story because if you're really behind what you're writing and you're saying, then report them, so let's see where we find the truth. We know where the truth is determined, not here, there are courts, so we'll figure it out, but they don't because they want perception without a lot of work. And then they can't wait for this to end, so let's go home. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70055	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70056	Yes, it's a strange notion and perception of perception at all. The Croatian public has the perception that individual parliamentary representatives spend all day here. Some show up for 5 minutes, shake off two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, one out of HS, they're 22 minutes in total, but they went out in all the media, everyone wrote about them. I've been sitting here all day except this one wrote that I have a good haircut. Nobody wrote anything about me. [[No one writes.]] I may not be sorry for that, but these are the perceptions of which the distinguished representative Boric spoke which can be false, and when they are false, they are very dangerous, and when they are dangerous, they do not bring good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70057	Tonight someone's going to write something, come on.../Laughter/... The next replica is the esteemed Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70058	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, we had here on several occasions a claim which is completely true, and I agree with her that the MP of the opposition has a real right to question and assess the work of officials. However, in this case, in this case, we have double standards for the applicant of this interpretation. I don't know if it was clear from the opening part of Minister Maric that she was the one who pressured the minister to break the rules. That can't be, one thing. Another thing, not a person who rises to such a high moral level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70059	Thank you very much. Yeah, we're a strange world. When the minister won't accept the entrepreneur, then we have a problem, then the minister avoids the development of Croatia, when he receives it, then he talks to him in four eyes, then they arrange some deals and it's mostly those two thesis that are spinning. I think the Minister of Finance, any minister, will talk to, and talk to entrepreneurs, with people who want to invest in Croatia, who wants to be and earn in Croatia, so that's important. But at a certain point, it doesn't answer to someone, and then the man gets muddy and gets dragged into the mud, and then we have what we have, a debate that basically won't make Croatia an absolute millimeter better country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70060	Next debate, the esteemed Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70061	I'm gonna fight your silent suffering. ... I did. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're giving me some attributes and importance, so it's exaggerated, but I'm glad you're scared. So, what I would like to say is, look back at the presentation of fellow Ostojić. I agree with this about Pavic and his perfumes and all that. But it's some kind of marifetteluct, this one can be seen in politics like that. What we're talking about here and we're talking about, I think it's serious and I don't know how much trouble it might be for you to support what Agent Caroline Vidović Kristo's initiative is, I think, as an opposition, there are no arguments. As an opposition representative, you can't be for the government and the minister. If he recalls in the House, then you must vote for the Minister's impeachment. So that's quite clear, otherwise you support the government. So, I just don't get it. And I would refer briefly, there are no colleagues here from my club, so the marriage couple Rasdic, as you said, did not work on HRT during Bačić. So since 2011, Nino has been on HRT columnist, columnist of the Evening List. Before that, the most read column is in the Croatian media space at all. So none of these people got anything done through the relationship, and you can see it from the debate here from the quality of them both as representatives so that it doesn't stand. As for what I'm talking about, so fellow Pavić is ugly to lie about and it's ugly to say that someone is coming back at a time when we were part of that coalition. I spoke in my speech about 2018, 2019. I never touched the case of Agrokor or anything else. I was talking about Krsh Padena's affair, and you said we were going back at that time because we're feeling sorry for what happened. I don't regret it for seconds. I thank God for that day, therefore, that we have made a decision to be against Minister Maric and that this is why we have actually ended our co-operation with HDZ. Not what Plenkovic is to us, it's a trick because he knew how we'd vote in the government. But we knew by then that this government was over because we thought it might be the best man in the world, so Zdravko Maric may be a better man than I am, so I'm not getting into it. But I am entering his procedures and that at the time of this crisis around Agrokor he went to meetings with Ivica Todorovic and that would be in every country of developed democracy that would be incriminating so that he is the biggest expert in Croatia. So, as a man, I won't say it at all, I have no right to. I've asked specific questions. So, to explain Minister Maric's meeting with Milenko Basic. I asked him to explain is it true that HBOR agreed to increase the initial bid from 50 million euros in 2018 to 80 later and why this happened. I asked him to explain whether during the time he acted as head of HBOR's Supervisory Board, the bank approved and one loan at an approximate level meant where the sole creditor of the project was the one involved in the project without some bank being behind the project. Specific questions. So, I'm not even alone at all, and I don't think my debate was anything special or rude to the minister. I said it impresses me that he knew himself often here with Ivica Todorovic to be in 4 eyes, so here with Milenko Bashic, and that he never knows anything about it and he is not responsible and he does not really want to answer these questions either. And what we are as an opposition, at least what I was on behalf of the club, are legitimate questions, legitimate questions from my colleague Pavic, and you are performing politically by going back to what was. We can talk about it, we can talk about it. I'm sure I was right about that, I'm sure we were right about that. And would I now do what I did then, I'm not sure. I went to the government and told Bozinovic that we would vote in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70062	Replica Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70063	A fellow Thunderbolt in a lot of things with you I'll fight on the same side. Please don't take this criticism as an attack, but I want to explain something that I haven't had a chance to speak to the public so far, which is that Minister Maric and HDZ actually gave you a big deal on how to solve the crisis in Agrokor. Since the beginning of this crisis, it has been all about Mr. Maric's meetings with Ivica Todorovic, and it was not the key to corruption. The key to corruption was in those meetings with secret consultants with members of the Borg group, with all those who, unfortunately, were also helped by the Most to be members of the so-called. non-formal working groups. In order to help the suppliers of Agrokor, you designed this extra-institutional machine that served the shovels as a good cover to steal Agrokor from the hands of its owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70064	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70065	I, colleagues Oreshkovic, can accept criticism for some of the mistakes we have made in the political action, but none of this error was made with the intention of harming the Croatian people. I can now, but I don't think it would be right to say who called me all in what state the Croatian economy would come into if we were irresponsible populists who wouldn't support that law. So whoever was talking about it at the time, we supported the law to the best extent. I don't think the problem is an informal group like that. The problem is whether these people from that informal group and now it turns out they were trading certain information, using them for their own personal breakthrough and not solving what you were talking about, I'm always ready to admit it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70066	The next debate was respected by Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70067	Here, and in these tiny late night hours, citizens who in various ways still have the opportunity to watch this send messages so on, on the behavior of HDZ and on this rhetoric of Grodjana Peric, say they've been raped, and I say to that so that they can be salted, and be aware that there are no more institutions that could endanger them. And that's what I'm telling you, colleagues of HDZ will be putting you at risk by Croatian citizens. So, if they were just as unfounded, casual, unsettled and unargumented assertions of this opposition proposal, then you wouldn't be running away from this debate so barbarously, you wouldn't be hiding it in late nights, defending your minister from the lights of the TV camera, and in the presence of journalists who usually have it here in the morning. To be clear right now, this is not about throwing mud at one minister, Minister, this is about setting up a thesis that points to the responsibility not only of him but also of his boss Andrej Plenkovic, the entire government and all of you who are sitting here right now. The fact is that I don't expect much from you, first of all, you're a political party convicted of corruption, you're a political party that had, in the previous government meeting, what, 14 ministers who had to leave because of corruption and conflict of interest. You did not condemn any of them in your own ranks or even in the presence of Pavic for that famous perfume affair. So obviously, the HDZ is packed with corrupt lines. And which crime we have never really spoken enough now, and it is a lie and a shame that neither Maric nor Plenkovic will ever be able to wash even though they have been washed by the institutions of criminal persecution. So, let's just say, Mr. Grmoya's colleague doesn't have an informal working group, which is, it was that little bit of false interpretation that has been targeted from the very day itself so as to put an end to the criminal proceedings. So, Art. 23. The Government Act says that it is a matter of determining the situation, in order to develop strategic development plans, analysis etc., etc., that special advisers can be appointed and advice can be formed. A person who is not in a permanent working relationship with the Government may be appointed as a special adviser and the appointment solution may provide for work compensation. So that Plenkovic needed special experts would have made a solution that determines who the expert was, and that the government needed some other bodies and thus that working group to prepare the draft of the Agrokor Act is in accordance with Article. 24. Could form such a body by government decision. Therefore, the permanent working bodies shall establish the Government of the Rules of Procedure at times a decision setting out its tasks and composition. The Borg group was a secret group formed under the auspices and protection of Andrej Plenkovic and his Borg minister. And all the time, the Committee for Decision-making on Conflict of Interest, because at the beginning of the day, such was the information that was available on these famous meetings of Ivica, Minister Maric with Ivica Todorovic. And that in some democratically decorated democratic democracy, it would in itself be enough to review whether there are elements to say that this is a conflict of interest because of the possible trading of privileged information. And the fact is that meetings were held that Minister Maric participated in them, that he offered Ivica Todorovic the possibility of resolving the crisis through funding by HABOR, in which he has the role of chairman of the Supervisory Board. And that also led the state institution and the whole public and the political scene to the wrong lead. At these meetings, Minister Maric as a person of his trust, Ivica Todorovic could indeed have obtained privileged information that he may not have had at that time because the situation on the market and the real sector is changing rapidly. This information was received from Ivica Todorovic himself but was not used in the interest of Ivica Todorovic but in the interest of members of his Borg group which allowed him to write a law on its own without the involvement of other state institutions. It's not true that she's in charge... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70068	Thank you very much, I have one more replica left, dear Vice President, so we said to use it, that I ask you something, you say that we will never wash ourselves, I ask you how will you be washed away from the current president telling you that you are his biggest mistake, that you will wash yourself from the fact that a man gets out of custody and first mentions your name, that you will wash yourself from packing people through the commission, you have done personal damage, the court later proved that it was not true, and those people had to deal with it. And it turns out that you're the only right person here that we're criminals, thieves, and that's not fair. I, I wonder with whom you hate, with whom you look at us and say all that you say and can't be surprised, for a year and a half today I'm surprised and yet I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70069	You'll still be surprised by your colleague Ivanovic. The amount of my impatience towards HDZ is proportional to the love of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens. And if we're talking about the commission to tell you something, the new council meeting, so from the previous assembly, two members entered into a new assembly, was chosen by the HDZ majority. The new assembly of the commission continued to make decisions of the same content, in the same way as interpreting the principles of action, since today the commission can no longer make such a decision, so neither can the one on the violation of Minister Maric's principle. I don't have to wash myself, that's the guilt HDZ will never clean up from. You destroyed the institutions to hide your own misdeeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70070	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Oreshkovic has been injured again tonight. 238. Mrs. Oreshkovic, you boast here with the document that the courts of the Republic of Croatia told you you should not have brought them, that you took the right to decide on something that the law did not allow. And you're boasting about it, instead of being embarrassed to interpret the law as You shouldn't have, you take it as an argument to attack someone. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70072	Time, warning. Final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club was respected by Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70073	The reason the Constitutional Court made a decision in the Tomislav Karamark case was to rescue soldier Ryan in character and the work of Andrej Plenkovic. It was not the courts who found that the commission had come out of the framework of its own work and jurisdiction that the Constitutional Court did so. And it's not my problem that prostate is not my crime that the president of that same Constitutional Court hangs out in a tavern with high-ranking and prominent HDZs. But not to be longer on a subject that shouldn't be wasting time right now. I'm going to say one more thing about this famous affair of the Borg and the two false foundations that I'm going to repeat every time I get a chance at this assembly. The first is that the Croatian government is ruled by a political party and a government that violates the Law on Government, which at some point in the long run brought by itself. A state where the parliamentary majority can tolerate such a fact and ignore that there is no informal working group, is not a fair, moral and honorable parliamentary majority. A state in which the repressive apparatus does not see the provisions of Article through its UskoK and DORH. 23rd and 24th. The government law only to reject criminal charges, so not making a decision to launch an investigation at all, not questioning your own decision even when, you don't have to shake that microphone so much, you're going to rip it off, I'm going to cut down the rhetoric so I don't scare you too much. So after Martina Dalic, Ramljak and others then heard from DORH's employees in public, I expected the state to shake because it says that the privileged information was traded by different state bodies by putting them on the table of Martina Dalic and Minister Maric. The privileged information was among other things that Ivica Todorovic succeeded in reaching a deal with his creditors. A telegrapher, an e-mail was released from a Russian bank in Martine Dalic's office and then panicically called members of the Borg group fearing that her plan would fail. And I'm asking a rhetorical question here, given that today, before this point of the agenda, we discussed the budget, what happens if Ivica Todorovic manages to prove that Agrokor has been kidnapped by government thieves? The basics and the cause have to do with it. The Republic of Croatia has not passed a law that addresses the insolvency situation of large companies, it was a law that applied to only one such. And one unique case across the EU and all the normal functional democracies from all over the world, which is that one group of friends, who was hiding in low-profile restaurants under the auspices of the night, has made it possible to come up with a law on its own and on that law alone. One specific provision showing the criminal intensity of such a group was to exempt from the provisions of that law those which say the tariffs of the usual bankruptcy tariff are set. So here it was demanded that no upper limit that exists in any other emergency management situation for the members of the Borg group simply does not apply. And it was one of the interventions in the small hours of the night that this parliamentary majority voted without discussion. Now this is Croatia enslaved, that is Croatia of enslaved institutions in which there is no institutional control. This is among other things, and Croatia may still be at the sleeping chip because when you look back during the day and how many complaints there are, so not all opposition is the same. In the last session, we had tokens, we have them in this one, at least for now, but we have chips of sleepers and those 25 billion European funds that you boast as well as Andrej Plenkovic and his minister, as I have already said to many people in the Republic of Croatia this power can ask, what you would like to be except in different ways HZD's tokens. That is the reason for many who choose for you and who vote for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70074	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70075	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. 238. Since a colleague is deviating from some of the general rules of conduct in this assembly. Why do I say that? Because in this way as it speaks of the judgments or decisions of the Constitutional Court, the High Administrative Court, the DORH, USKOK is very dangerous. So it turns out that all the institutions in this country are absolutely wrong, you're the only one right. And actually behind that is hiding your incompetence to which counterpart Bacic points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70076	A reminder to you. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70077	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of mine did. 238. means the deviation from the rules of conduct in this assembly because she found out about this speaker that she hates us as people and members of HDZ that we can forgive her even, but that she abuses one story about Agrodor as well as her colleague Bencic, two of whom watched it on television by saving this one business entity that still works as a Forten group today and is always talking about the flow of private capital. The state there hasn't invested as much money as I know, and they keep asking that question. Considering that we are passing different laws on many companies [[Santer Invader: Time.]] He'll probably question that, too, probably with [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Since they know everything, and they don't know anything. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70078	We have a warning. The next final debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta, the respected Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70079	Dear Vice-President of the HS Mr Sanader, respected co-workers of Minister Maric, co-workers and colleagues. Yeah, I'm also sorry that there's no whole opposition here, no, some of us came here in the morning and eight like every day, eventually some of us came a little later. I would also like to have everyone here to discuss, these are very important things, very important for our Croatia, for our society. Secondly, I'm sorry that during these discussions, there were very rough words. I'm not one of those guys who likes rough words so I don't like people being called zeros or zeros or anything like that, I don't like it, I don't like pride, I don't like pride. All right. So, as an opposition, we have the legitimate right to ask what happened to these famous HBOR loans, what happened in all these talks. We listened here and colleagues from the opposition and my colleague Grumo, who is the role of the then minister in the government, today USKOK's suspect Mrs. Gabriela Žalac, which is actually with this Miljenko Bašić and that is, these are legitimate issues that we have the right to ask and then the other, in this case Minister Maric is manifested and we have the right to believe that the legal system must function. We'll invite him to work, to sensitize, to speak, but we have to believe there's hope because if we think there's no hope then we can pack the suitcases and Caroline and me and here all these colleagues and everybody really pack the bags, really pack the bags and go away. So to end up somehow in the poetic mood of literature and theology, says Pope Franjo that "a corrupt person, a person who sends out the unpleasant smell of a rotten heart", since my colleague, Boric, came to me right away, "which is the basis for exploiting the collapse of social injustice and the lack of services needed to people who are rooted in slavery to care for cities for general good and nature." He says, "a man who gives in to corruption falls, and antisocial behaviour to whom corruption states ends by breaking relations. People's co-existences are being torn away, and corruption is a poison that pollutes the general perspective. Corruption stinks!" Papa Franjo says. Bela Hamvas many you know, a Hungarian philosopher, a writer, an aestheticist says, “It would be nice if corruption reigned only in some segments of society, but it reigns all around us, it is the result of the eclipse of the mind, the corruption of morality, the brittleness of the body, the discord between spirit and behavior. Where the word does not cover the body there or the theory of practice, there is the deepest form of corruption." I personally blame everything from parents to the Church, all opposition, ruling for this corruption. Well, it's all our fault, so it's all our fault. Now to what extent, we can talk about it. Whoever puts his fingers in somewhere, then has a responsibility, and we need to talk about it, and he has to account for his misdemeanors, he has to make an account. But let's not get romantic expressions to justify something that you can't justify, where someone falls, I say I fell, you step up with the ashes, and here I am. So let's not make this really a little funny, so when something that's dirty to me, we pretend it's clean. In this case and from this place I call on the institutions to do their job, without pathetics, without any means whatsoever because otherwise I said we can go to Arush, Tanzania, there the Salesians are asking for help to volunteer, will go to Croatia and almost. So, we have to call the institution's work to do all the institutions doing the work, we're going as an opposition to question ruling how they do, what they do, how they do, how they do, and that's it. But I'd like to try not to go to ad-hominem in all these discussions if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70080	The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70081	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. In 238, I'm knowingly risking a warning, but what I'm about to say is none of your business, I believe that Mr. Bukarica and the sleeping president of HS who probably dreams of Mont Everest tomorrow will explain to us for what reason Mr. Mira Bulju, therefore who had something to say on this topic, has collected warnings from all day long and taken away his word that the man here is not right to say everything he later thought. Please warn whoever made such a shameful decision today. And don't let that happen again. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70082	Okay, he can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and you get a warning. The HDZ representative club is the final respected Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor... , esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just going to take a quick final look at the motion to recall the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. I think the debate that was here tonight made it perfectly clear that there are no elements that would convince parliamentary deputies that they can vote for mistrust with Minister Maric. From what we heard tonight, it is clear and clear that Minister Maric did not do anything to discredit him to perform his post as prime minister in this government. I'll briefly say something I've been listening to for a long time in the assembly, and that's the Law on extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance, so on. lex Agrocor. The government had respected colleagues and colleagues and the ruling majority could sleep well and let go and watch as the most important company in Croatia, the private company went bankrupt and did nothing, and then it would probably have been for many who then wished that this would have caused the Croatian economy to fall to a large extent, and the government had taken action to resolve the 60,000 employees, of which 30,000 in Croatia and 30,000 outside Croatia and 150,000 employees in the companies that were suppliers of the same Agrokor. And it could not be resolved through the existing insolvency laws of Agrokor because it was such a company that the only way was to pass that law adopted by Croatian legislation. ... European legislation. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Which the EU has accepted as one of the insolvency laws and has won the award for one of the best solutions in which the state intervenes in the economy. And all that was done didn't cost the Croatian taxpayers any, not a single June. The holder of this law was the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law was proposed to the government by Vice-President Martina Dalic, whom she contacted and consulted by Mrs Dalic. Dalic. We, as the ruling majority then, passed the law. The consultants who later adopted the law took over the counseling of the extraordinary administration were decided by the creditors, not us, not you, not anyone else, but by the creditors whose property it was, and they singled out their assets, whether they gave a lot to those consultants or we don't know. I'm not the one who can talk about it, but if they gave a lot of money, not ours, but the resources of those who were most interested in giving the money to Agrokor back as much as possible and most of the 100% have returned the small OPGs, small entrepreneurs to... thousands of kunas that were asked of Agrokor have completely returned, large suppliers somewhere around 80%, and financial creditors have become owners and today it is Fortanova etc.. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we could stand aside and let all this go bankrupt and then the state would only then have huge problems which it would have to pay those people... who would be bankrupt to settle their salaries without saying where the tourist season would be and where the Croatian economy would be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it was necessary to turn the sleeves and get into that business and deal with it. It's easy today after 3-4. being smart and saying right and what had to be done. We did it then and that we did it well best to show the fact that the most important company remained on its feet and functioning, and who would be the owner is the other thing. That would be, neither was Todorovic the owner of the last days, because the owners were the banks, hence the ones he was in charge of. As for the subject of today's debate, I think the minister is with what he's done and what he's been doing for the past five years. in the government of the Republic of Croatia, he deserves his commendation and we will vote in this sense in 10 days and give confidence to Minister Maric that he continues to do the job of the Minister of Finance well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70084	On behalf of the promoter, finally, respected Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70085	Mr. Maric, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition. You're nooean to defend indefensibly because you all know this is about proven corruption cases, but you all know that those in functional European democracies can't survive, but you still insist on them. We all know that in this way you consciously harm your people and your fellow citizens, but you all live in Croatia, you have your neighbours, you have people you meet in the neighborhood, in the city or in the municipality, and when you hear that someone has been fired, that they have been paid, that someone's apartment or house has been completed, or that they have to move with the whole family to a member state of the EU then remember that it is also because the works made by Minister Maric and the diverse Marići today's authorities are not sanctioned. And because you, as parliamentary advocates, have voted in favour of Minister Maric's stay in office as finance minister, but against common sense. But remember one fact, and here I especially think of you who consider yourself to be patriots and you who consider yourselves Christians. I will quote Giovanni Di Pietro, better known as Franjo Assiski, and he said: “We will not bring anything from this world that we have received. We'll only bring what we gave. Good deeds, solidarity, help weaker ones." These are not just Christian values. These are universal values and regardless of ideological or secular views, everyone has to wonder whether they will be able to look in the mirror and face their actions, because thousands and thousands of Croatian people suffer exclusively because of the injustice whose cause is exclusively the failure of the legal order, the blockade of institutions and the abuse of these ruling summits. But don't forget at all. Very soon you will have to make bills and you will have to explain why you have made a decision against Croatia, why you have made a decision against justice, against common sense, against European values.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70086	You have one replica. Dear Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70087	Thank you. So this entire mandate I am talking about the power or the non-existent role of Croatian institutions, how much they are devastated, how many are destroyed by the HDZ government. And this one, I'm going to say a sad debate, but not a sad debate over a bad proposal for opposition, but because of the way the parliamentary majority reacts to it, is exactly that state of mind. In normal countries, and I hope that one day Croatia will become like this, first of all, it would be of interest to you to establish standards of conduct of public duties that are in line with the principles of trust, transparency, impartiality. None of these are listed in Minister Maric's proceedings when it comes to all these large corruption affairs that have been linked and networked to him by famous and close persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70088	Time. You have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70089	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic. I was not surprised by such an unspeakable debate by the ruling. It also did not surprise me that they did not raise a single replica of exposure on behalf of the applicant. I am not surprised that Minister Zdravko Maric has given almost no fact an adequate answer or an adequate explanation. And why didn't it surprise me? Because you have nothing to say. Because this can't be killed. And I'm only sorry that Croatian citizens are paying for that pipe you're creating and what must take so long, but it will come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-03-0.u70090	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue in the morning at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Household Activity Act. SESSION Interrupted at 01.02 A.M.
