ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u57722	Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're moving on with our work. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda of the 8th session with 9 All items of the agenda were delivered by electronic means. Art. The 227 Rules of Procedure determine firstly to decide on a proposal for individual laws to be adopted by emergency procedure. Art. 206 The Rules of Procedure lay down that laws which comply with EU documents are adopted following an urgent procedure, if requested by the applicant and not voted on. This is point 1 of the proposed supplement, which reads: Proposal for a Law amending the laws on hospitality, the final proposal for a law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.R. No. 197. Art. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 8th session. Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of Mosta, the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u57778	Oh, my God. Dear Vice President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bucaric, colleagues and colleagues. I ran 200 metres of sprint so I wouldn't lose my right to a break, right on the stand. A transition to a green economy. Although the strategy for the transition to renewable energy sources is a universally known thing that has been discussed and written in the media for years, and they have been making certain decisions and strategies to bind the European recovery plan and the resilience to the transition to the green economy, it has confirmed in front of all EU Member States that, as well as the Croatian intensive period of communication, the importance of stopping climate change and the launch of projects that should help. Not by entering this opportunity into geopolitical circumstances and the EU's need for independence on other global actors when it comes to energy, I would like to stress that what is important to us in the Mosta Club is that the transition to the green economy does not take place across the backs of citizens and entrepreneurs, and that this transition really cares about the created world and the nature that surrounds us. So we Christians know that by science we are the wise rulers of the country, and not its masters, and that is what all church fathers say, so the teaching of the church, so we are wise managers, not masters, and we should think about how this is handled by a wise manager who cares about the planet, and then of course also about his country, about his country, about his country, and about his society. So, concern for the created world is one of the fundamental Christian principles and here I would like to talk and take out a few thoughts of Pope Francis, who says that supporting the infinite accumulation of power and wealth leads to an ever greater gap between the rich and the poor, and in the context of cultural relativism and anthropocentrism, people take advantage of one another and treat others as ordinary objects by imposing forced labour or enslaved them to pay their debts. The Pope says that the economy as such, and then the green economy should be based on social science, and the pandemic and the economic crisis it would cause could lead to a reduction in the consumer, egotistic and individualist society. A man shouldn't slave to the economy, he shouldn't slave. The economy should be in the service of people, in the service of men. The social policy segment should therefore not focus solely on the issue of energy prices for households but should focus on industry, on entrepreneurship. Current problems with rising energy prices will bring many difficulties in production. It will reflect on the price of the goods as we see it happening. So, we have a visual example of the negative effect of green policies on the price of gas, or the fact that this energy has collected incredible 400% since the beginning of the year, and as we know, gas is the main item in the petrochemical industry, and we can therefore expect chain collection and fertilisers and food and everything. So, regardless of all of this, by failing to reach agreement between Germany and Russia on the opening of the Russian pipeline, we can rightly ask ourselves whether there is a better way to join the EU energy issue. When we look at how our government faces price and fuel growth, which instead of reducing excise duties is limited to the price itself and directly enters the free market, we can say anything about EUR, EUR-o for nothing. Therefore, given the above, Croatia should think in the direction of moderate green transition, energy mix balancing if we look at the circumstances surrounding us but provided that all of this does not take place across the back of entrepreneurs and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u57924	Now we'd go as agreed, to take a stand. The first statement of office on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be represented by a respected representative, Nadica Dreven Budinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u57925	... If we have overcome the biggest health and financial crisis without a wave of bankruptcy, we will not allow the decline of citizens' standards due to the cost of energy. [[Last-on speaker]] If the global situation does not calm down, we have additional tools at our disposal. We are now moving towards a phase of economic recovery, and the common strategic objective is Schengen and the Eurozone. In addition, we must take advantage of the opportunity offered by 25 billion euros of the grants available to us for development in the coming years. And in the biggest crisis, we created a precondition for development and we are at our disposal to all counties to support their projects. We adopted all strategic documents in time, and we set up a financial framework for progress and development. These are the words of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister responsible government, who, despite all the difficult times of our country since the Covid-19 pandemic, the earthquakes, the elemental disasters, and the global crisis, knows how to respond to all the challenges. That the government is essential to the even development of every part of our country, I hope it's clear to everyone. That is why today, I will look back today and praise the joint work of the government and the mayor for signing the development agreement for the north of Croatia. The agreement will allow cohesion and effective implementation of projects, and will be worth more than 15 billion kuna. The agreement includes Međimurska County, Varazdin County, Krapina-Zagorska County, Koprivnica-Kryzevac County and Zagreb County. All counties are equal partners in the agreement regardless of party membership. 7.5 million shares of the county, which means that each gets 1.5 and the remaining 7.5 invests in joint strategic projects and programmes. Countys already have their proposals, and I can highlight the Varazdinski, and these are the Central Ops Block, Camps FOI, fast road Varazdin-Ivanec-Lepoglava, Bukothermal, geothermal central, home ramp. These are important, and we still have the funds of the Centre for Gifted Shalovec, the Regional Centre for Civil Protection, the Horse Centre Optujska and Arboretum of bricks. For the past 4 years. The government has helped and invested more than 2 billion kunas in the Varazdin County, so we are sure that we will also know how to invest these funds for the needs and development of better conditions for all living needs of residents of all counties in northern Croatia. In the last week, we've heard all sorts of statements, conclusions and epithets about HDZ, but I'd only hoped they were people of the Varazdin County after 20 years. recognize and give their voice and trust to HDZ. Our people are critical, but they know who is responsible and who can provide security, so they don't surprise the last polls since the day before yesterday the HRT rating that HDZ has growth ratings, and the other parties are suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u57985	The position of the House Movement Representatives Club follows. In their name, Honorable Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u57986	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public is Friday, it's the end of the week so maybe we should try to make a little summary, try to sum up this week in these five minutes just enough for the people to remember what's been going on these tumultuous days. On Monday, we learned that the color of a party card is irrelevant if the way you milk a rich amount of social money is creative. The former director of the Purity of the City of Varazdin has an item in the contract that probably doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It says: “If he ceases his duties, he must find another job where he has the right to equal pay and all other benefits for 5 years. ” It really sounds wonderful to all people who have been fired unfounded, who have unwarrantedly cut their wages or people who live off the minimum wage in a country whom one minister calls a phenomenal place to live. Here's my personal proposal to the Varazdin city authorities, since the legendary Mr. Verglec was left forever by the barbarian master Srecko Dragisic, I suggest you move the new city attraction to the town of Varazdin, the former director of Purity to the place of street trash, give him a nice cart, give him a broom, and Varazdin will be the only place in the world where the cleaner has a salary of 13,500 kuna and that for the next 5 years. We came to a Tuesday where we heard fantastic news our new Zagreb mayor for the job of taking care of biowaste chose a company known as the entrepreneur who had done those jobs before. Yet, it is not the same, to ride bicycles to work or kneel in Warsaw or to run the largest city in the country. The entire circus was joined by irresponsible media who immediately reminded us that in the campaign Mr. Senf had put the plan loudly and joyfully in the first place to break up with the gentleman mentioned above and his companies, but after only a few months in the mayoral chair from 5 speeds sharply thrown into reverse. Dear Mr. Mayor, he's not exactly God knows what kind of Zagreb Kinderstubs to make false promises to the citizens, is he? The rest of Tuesday filled out a parliamentary debate on the director of the national television house in which we only missed the HDZ team explaining that their candidate can fly and that he has the ability to prophesy the future. On Wednesday, it was true and proved that the ruling party had the ability to prophesy, the HRT received a new director with 77 votes with only one repeat vote due to a minor administrative error, all of which our Mr. President Jandrokovic effectively solved, fortunately no one called the phone to piss him off. Afterwards we hurried to bring another iron new and much better Law on Reconstruction, and Mr. Minister promised us that this is it now. After removing the last administrative barriers, the earthquake of the damaged house and the building will practically restore itself. And we have every right to hope that their squares will double on their own. Thursday was a day to remember. The strategy for preventing corruption is presented to the Croatian public until 2030. The choice of the moment was more than well shot as if directed by some of the best masters of the suspension theatre or film. Just when the verdict for corruption was dropped by the political party, she decided to say enough, no more. From wolves of eternally hungry taxpayers' money, we will become meek sheep, who will be responsible and modestly fall on a large budget meadow by 2030. Here's to us today Friday, the public didn't get cut off for another good story. This time we have foreign actors. More specifically, the EPPO European Public Prosecutor's Office, from which they dared to ask how it is possible that the costs of developing a computer programme with 5 million miraculously increase to as much as 16 million kuna. And that this computer program writes or creates a company in multiple blockades with only one single employee. We have to admit this story as if the dramatics say there's a sting. That'll be all. Dear Father, I hope we've entertained you well this week, made you laugh, maybe even made someone cry. After all, this performance is well directed with several top actors and a scene full of extras. And just for the end, let me be a little bit more serious, allow, on behalf of all of us and the Croatian public, the families of the greats of Croatian acting and Croatian defender, Mr. Žarko Potočnjak, to offer my sincere and profound condolences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u58288	The presentation of the position on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will be presented by the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u58289	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Quality health care system is the basis of healthcare providers or healthcare professionals, available and regulated healthcare, and in the centre of the system is satisfied with the patient, but the Croatian healthcare system is far from that. As a doctor who's been working in a health care system for over 20 years, first in family medicine offices, then in emergency medical care, and now for a number of years in the hospital system, I know now both of which are advantages, problems and disadvantages in our health care. What I don't know, of course, is I'm talking to all the other stakeholders in the health system, trying to be objective, reasoned and decent, and I don't use populist statements. I've already said many times that the existing health system is unfortunately nakarad. You have payment by DTP and DTS, therefore the unrealistic prices of health services provided, insufficient financial limits for health care provided, insufficient employees, not solved overtime. Unfortunately, however, this new draft amendments to the Health Protection Act, this pile of pages sent to various stakeholders in health care, on 19.10., with the intention of showing no necessary reforms until 22.10. What's the current situation? On the one hand, you have general and county hospitals, health homes, pharmacies, public health institutions, emergency medical institutions for which the founder, county, City of Zagreb is responsible. Clinical hospital centers are under the hat of the state that's resuscitating them. According to the law on institutions, it is stated that the founder of the institution is in full and unlimited responsibility for its obligations, and under the existing Health Protection Act, it is stated that in the exercise of his rights, obligations, tasks and objectives in the field of health protection of units of local or regional self-government, unless provided by the Republic of Croatia. The State determines the prices of medicines, most of the restrictions, categories of population that are exempt from paying contributions to health care and supplementary insurance, for which it does not meet all obligations itself, and the founding health care institution, so the county should settle debts, and then in practice, it is forced to transfer money from one institution to another, in order to at least partially rehabilitate, reach into budget rebalancing, etc., but that is insufficient. Now, according to this existing bill of amendments, the health ministry is predicting the centralization of the entire system. It is proposed that all general and special hospitals at the county level, 57 of them get a new owner, or state. It also envisions the abolition of the 21st County Institute for Public Health, only HZJZ would remain. And county emergency medicine institutions, 21 of them, should also close the doors so far and as a top body, the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute would remain. Partly extends the powers of homes of health, and doctors working in private offices in them, in the future they should do those jobs that they hold necessary, more specifically, would not be able to refuse a job that is described in the work of home health and wonders who will pay them for this additional work. In the draft bill of law, it is literally the move of feathers to kidnap, for example, our county's property and founding rights for the County Hospital of Čakovec, the Institute of Emergency Medicine and the Institute of Public Health. I remind you that the citizens of the county have invested their own resources in our health institutions, and in particular the County of Međimurje. The Chakovec County Hospital was built by the self-distribution of the inhabitants of Međimurje and we will not allow the abolition of our departments, or health institutions. The draft amendments to the Health Protection Act do not show whether the percentage of the gravitating population will be taken into account. For example, my hospital is at the top, over 80% of the population is taking care of; of the teamwork and equipment of departments and institutions, of the number of services being performed, of how much the state is obliged to hospitals, of how many counties are owed to the institutions themselves. This draft does not guarantee that all employees, all institutions and departments that do their job well. Will individual health institutions be taken care of just how many miles away? Why are they taking over under the state and those institutions that do business positively? Not a word about the possible financial integration of health institutions within the counties themselves. I'd rather be taken over by the state. Art. 168, why not cancel the traineeship for the individual remaining professions? If not abolished, the state must provide them within a year and what is the special agreement between the state and the unit of local and regional self-government? What are the property relations, the provision of overstandards, the huge funds that the counties invested in health institutions. No plans, no words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u58290	Here, we're done with this part of the session. We continue on Wednesday, 27 October at 9.30 Annual Report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here, have a nice rest of the day, everybody. Session adjourned in 10.20 hours. Here, before we discuss the point planned for today, I would like to inform you that, after the debate is concluded, we will immediately move on to the presentation of the position of the representatives' clubs. Today's item of the agenda is: - The final proposal of the Act confirming the agreement to amend the agreement on the transfer and unification of the contribution to the Single Recovery Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Helen Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland, the second reading, P.Z. No. 189. The draft act shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Based on the above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws on which international contracts are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are adopted as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the hearing pursuant to Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66589	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. As the Vice-President of the Assembly has also given the whole, overall name of the final bill itself, not to repeat, but essentially concerns the agreement on the transfer and unification of contributions to the Single Renaissance Fund. The agreement itself confirmed this high house on 28 February last year, or ratified, and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement was published in the National Journal as an international contract number one from 2020. In essence, the Single Renaissance Fund was established with the aim of ensuring uniform financing for the recovery of credit institutions or financial institutions, and became operational as early as 1 January 2016 when an agreement with those Member States that signed it came into effect and it essentially signalled the completion of the second pillar of the banking union. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we joined that second pillar and the first pillar of the banking union by establishing close cooperation as a participating Member State on the 1.10th of last year, so we also consider ourselves to be a component of the two pillars of the banking union, so maybe I should just visit what those two pillars mean. One represents a unique supervisory mechanism, and another a unique recovery mechanism, which is the theme of today's final bill. As far as these two pillars are concerned, the basic goal of one and the other is to ensure the resilience of financial institutions to deal with financial crises, and everything has been driven by a series of financial crises that we have had in the past 10 years in financial institutions around the world. Second and no less important is the fact that these regulations determine that the recoverys of credit institutions or financial institutions are carried out solely on the burden of these same institutions and their money, therefore without taxpayers' money. And thirdly, at EU level, this wanted to reduce the so-called. Fragmentation of the market by harmonising standards at EU level. With regard to perhaps only the basic indicators, this Single Renaissance Fund or mechanism refers to some 3,000 credit institutions at EU level. The goal is to raise 68 billion euros by 1.1.In '24, the amount is currently worth just over 30 billion euros. The rate provided for by these regulations is 1% at the level of secured deposits by credit institutions, so this is taken as a basis. Otherwise, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, only to point out in the context of secured deposits which have nothing to do with this credit institution resolution, but thus set this calculation methodology at present at 31.7, respectively, the level of the secured deposits was 223.9 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the amendments subject to today's final draft law, it applies to only one norm, which is a common safeguard mechanism, which was agreed in 2013 when it would be introduced or that Member States would be filling the fund by 2023 and would then start with a common safeguard mechanism in 2024. But in this last year, when the euro area finance ministers met last November, including EU ministers who are not in the euro area, it was concluded that sufficient progress has been made in reducing the risk in the banking sector, and the activation of the common safeguard mechanism is foreseen to move from early 2024 to 2022. Here in short, it's the only change, it refers to, in the existing agreement on Article. 5th and 7th, as you can see in the materials, so I don't bother you with something we've already had in the debates. If necessary, I am at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66590	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first to discuss is the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66591	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement amending the transfer and unification of contributions to the Single Resilience Fund between EU members other than the Kingdom of Sweden. As is known, the Kingdom of Sweden and the United Kingdom, which is no longer a member of the EU, have been exempted from this agreement from the very beginning. In front of the Green-Left bloc, we want to say that we have expectations when important agreements are made between EU members and that we would like to see the consensus and participation of all members in the agreement. This is the way we strengthen European integration, and this is how some questionnaires will always remain over the agreement why no consensus has occurred between all members. The amendments provided for in this Agreement relate to really difficult situations within the banking sector when there is a de facto major banking crisis or bankruptcy, and then a single stabilisation mechanism takes effect. At a meeting of the Euro Group in December 2018, it was agreed, as the Secretary of State has said, that, with already provided funds in the mechanism, the joint safeguard mechanism will be approved as a refurbishment credit line from the European Stabilisation Mechanism, and will be used exclusively as an ultimate asset in a situation where the funds in the Unity Resuscitation Fund are exhausted and the Single Resuscitation Committee is unable to collect enough ex post contributions or borrow funds from other sources. So, these amendments to the law, we're going to give a wider space of action to the Single Rehabilitation Committee so that we can get extra funds to resuscitate banks. I don't know if that's true, we're witnessing how much the EU has, in historical terms, given the great money for these recovery funds and whether it's possible for any of that right now on the basis of the money that's obviously well collected as previously imagined, is it possible to throw in some of these funds the same thing, you're going to say or is it separate... It's just credit institutions, it's just credit institutions, yeah, yeah, you're gonna do that later, so I apologize for asking this one like this, but now I'm thinking about asking that right now. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] We don't want to pollemise here about the necessity and the importance of the resolution of banks in times of deep crisis, we don't want to discuss now how, in general, such resolutions are so far, otherwise they break over the back of the weakest in society. We do not want to talk about it, here we want first of all to express our concern as to how these resolutions are realised and to express our regret that in the amendments to this agreement that are ahead of us have not started and in the direction of strengthening the transparency of the work of the Single Sanantia Fund and the Sanantia Committee. In December 2020, A colleague from the European Greens on the European Parliament's parent committee questioned the President of the Single Sanantia Fund. Elke Konig on the need for greater transparency of the work of the Sanancies Committee in the sense that aggregated real-time data is published in a timely manner, about the bank's debt rate and the clearer activation criteria of the Sanantia Fund. Even though she's a Mrs. McNally. Konig has promised to increase transparency of the work of the Sanjay Committee and the Fund, and we would like to see these amendments to the agreement in a way that explicitly strengthens transparency of the work of the Sanjay Committee and the Sanjay Fund itself. In particular, we would like to see whether the resolution takes into account the responsibilities of those banks that led to irrational speculation in the markets by bringing banks into the position of the need for recovery. We would also like to see more fairly defined recovery processes, not to repeat the situations we saw in the resolution of banks and other financial institutions after the 2008 crisis. where individuals are responsible for bringing financial institutions into bankruptcy have been rewarded in the process of resuscitating financial institutions. The 2008 lessons must be integrated into this agreement and therefore we also call on the Ministry of Finance to be more proactively involved. to initiate any new amendments to this Agreement as some new financial crisis may already be knocking on the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66592	Next is the discussion of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66593	The transfer and unification of contributions to the single recovery fund established rules on the transfer and unification of contributions with a view to ensuring the maximum level of legal certainty. Contributions paid by credit institutions and collected at national level shall be transferred to a single recovery fund consisting initially of sections belonging to Member States. Sections will gradually unite at 8 years into a single recovery fund which should eventually reach the target level of at least 1% of the amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised in all participating Member States. The amending Agreement shall include amendments to Articles 5 and 7 of the Agreement governing the functioning of the sections or temporary transfer between the sections. Where available financial resources within the Sanitary Fund are not sufficient to cover the costs of a certain recovery measure, subsequent contributions from credit institutions shall be collected or, where subsequent contributions are not currently available, the single resolution committee may negotiate loans or other forms of support or carry out temporary transfers between the departments. The amendments to those articles introduce a change in the method of calculating fees and contributions. The establishment of close cooperation between the CNB and Croatia, with the European Central Bank of the Republic of Croatia, has become a Member State of participation in a banking union which forms a single supervisory mechanism and a single rehabilitation mechanism. As a Member State outside the euro area associated with the banking union, it will participate in a common safeguard mechanism through parallel credit lines. The Member States which have signed an intergovernmental agreement and are not yet part of the banking union will be subject to the rights and obligations arising from the agreement and will then become part of the single supervisory mechanism and the single sanity mechanism that was initially spoken here is the first and second pillar. Contributions paid by credit institutions collected at national level will be transferred to a single recovery fund consisting initially of sections belonging to Member States. Sections gradually pooling over 8 years into a single recovery fund that should eventually reach the target level of at least 1% of covered deposits in all authorised credit institutions. We know that the entire banking union process came after 2008 or the crisis in 2008 when, in fact, the EU institutions said that EU citizens will no longer be dealt with, that they will not tackle the wrong policies of business banks. So that's the main goal of the initialisation of the banking union, not any particular conspiracy, but simply for the benefit of the citizens. So the banking union goes to the benefit of the citizens because it says no more, that they will no longer be paid, and we are well aware in the Republic of Croatia in 30 years how much we are, how much from the budget we are paid to finance financial institutions. It's not like that anymore, and the banking union says it's going to be paid by you who are actually shareholders or owners of these banks. It was actually the first step in uniting the banking union. We don't need to scare people into entering, to lose some part of our sovereignty. This is good if not for any reason, then because we're too little of our capital, and today we said that we only have 600 million compared to 200 billion, that any reason would happen to us would not be worth it. If we are part of a unique mechanism, we see how citizens, how citizens are connected already and for example, the Covid crisis when someone comes to you from China, Italy is infected by the whole of Croatia, imagine how it goes with capital. He goes 10 or 100 times faster than the citizens move. And it simply cannot, especially in the capital market, put any wire at the border and therefore such a mechanism exists within the EU that still even within the EU has its recommendations even more than it does, than exists here in Croatia. So we think it's a welcome initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66594	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66595	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairing, therefore, these amendments to the Agreement on Transfer and Unite of Contribution to the Single Resilience Fund between the Signatory States are essentially a reform of the European Stability Mechanism or as we wish to call it. It has five essential features, of which three are in these changes and two are not. Therefore, earlier in this Agreement, the amendments to this Agreement are introduced earlier, so instead of 2024 it is transferred to 2022 so-called A bank parachute. It's a kind of.../incomprehensible... system that would be activated by funds if the resources of a failing bank would not be enough to service its clients' operations. So there's only one shift, so that's already in effect for two, so next year. With the banks already starting to pay into that fund but we don't have the goal you said, so what kind of killing should theoretically be the entity of that Fund. There is one more thing that is important, which is that according to the IMF recommendation, what is the reprogramming of the debt of the bond state would be led through one, not more than two rounds of voting, and thus will avoid what are speculant maneuvers of this, individual vulture funds and third, so a little modality that is related to obtaining preventive credit lines for countries that have liquidity problems is changing. And now what's not there. What is not there, which may not be good, but where some member states have insisted, which is not... public debt sought by the Netherlands and Germany, i.e. the condition for obtaining funds to be a declaration of insolvency towards certain debtors and other things that are not available, is a stalemate of the surveillance of the budget from the EU Commission on what is the intergovernmental body because in the first decision, the majority of the votes are made, and in this second, there is a right to veto, so no decision can be made, and this is sought by certain countries in northern Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in conclusion, the fact is that this Fund is in its own right, it's in a crisis where, like the entire mechanism of this European stability, it's expected to get some new assignments, so maybe this redesign could bring some new inputs that this Fund would be engaged in, like, religiously speaking. It's partly his fault, but partly it's not because it's not about a popular institution because, for example, No Member State has used its credit lines for healthcare. Uh, that, but, and there's one more thing, he's got another problem, which is that he's income from interest on the crises that have been going on in Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus, they're getting a little excruciating, and 300 experts working in that fund still need to get paid every month. However, this mini-reform still improves this Banking Union, which was spoken of by the Proposer. Surely what's safe is that we don't have a deterioration in the situation with these changes, so the Social Democrats Club will still support this Agreement. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66596	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we heard from the motionors, and before the debate in front of the other clubs, more or less we all agreed that this law should be supported, that it improves the existing situation. I would just take a little more advantage of the opportunity and hope that I would point out the importance of establishing such a, such a unique sanity fund and a sanity mechanism, not just at the level of the Republic of Croatia, at the level of Europe. It is indisputable that we are also increasing our relationship with other EU members and there is no other island, we cannot be an island, we all agree. Of course, rules on the transfer and unification of contributions have been established with a view to ensuring maximum legal certainty. What's important is legal certainty in the area of finance, financial institutions. We know how we've been since that crisis in 2007, '08. Mr, who started with the crisis of the financial sector, as it quickly spills over to the real sector, is to us as a state, it seems to me that it took me about 7.8 years to dig ourselves out of that crisis. Many have learned at that lesson crisis, lessons learned and here, of course, and this agreement is the result of it. Of course, trust in the banking sector needs to be strengthened, in the event of any problems, to prevent the attacks on clients on bank counters, none and the best bank in the world can withstand and prevent further spread of the problem, if any, to reduce the negative link between banks and the real sector and states, i.e. the state budget, or the obligation of taxpayers. What I also think further needs to be pointed out is that the contributions to these funds are not on the burden of taxpayers, but on the burden of the banking sector, banks where they are making a solidarity payment, come on, we can say so in some kind of insurance fund, in case one of them gets into trouble. Of those 1% should be about 60 billion euros in the account over 8 years, the Fund is fully charged and let's hope one of our banks doesn't need it. It's good to have a parachute, it's good to have some kind of shock absorber, but let's hope it doesn't need one of our banks. It will not fail the savings stakes in these cases, what is most important, saves, citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not be damaged, but the consequences of the economy and other financial sectors cannot be fully... cannot be completely prevented from such unique renaissance funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ representative club, of course, supports both this and any other proposal that contributes to increasing legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-22-0.u66598	Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
