ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57770	My colleagues and fellow MPs. We are witnessing that in recent months there has been quite a serious increase in product prices in Croatia. It took a huge scale, we could see it as an example of fuel. But the fuel hasn't jumped in the last month. The fuel's been growing for a few months now, but there's been a sudden jump. What we warned all the time, we warned about the seriousness of the situation, we warned about the rise in food prices, the rise in energy prices, we warned the government. As the Bridge, we have gathered the signatures of the parliamentary deputies to force the procedure for Governor Vujcic to come to HS in front of the CNB to answer these questions. From him, we could hear the same thing we can hear from the government, what's going on? Well, nothing's happening, nothing serious. No concrete measure, no concrete solution indicated. He fit very well into this Muppet show. What could we get after that? So one few days after his presentation of nothing important in HS, he said information, you know, to all those who have loans in the euro and who have no fixed interest, interest could jump, or credits could jump by 10% to 20%. I mean, non-chalantly, he just says. Did we deserve to hear it here at HS? Is it really possible that his mind was enlightened within 10 days? Did he know that when he was in HS? If he didn't know, then it's not for this function. If he knew, then this is how both ruling and those who appointed these people, behave, not incorrectly, but I would dare say, corruptly, towards the same Croatian public. We are not ultimately important here, we invited him so that the Croatian public hears what is happening, that we can prepare ourselves if something is waiting for us. We didn't hear anything. And is something serious going on? It happens. Is there a serious increase in product prices? There is. You now have some basic living foods more expensive by 30% compared to a few months ago. I don't even need to talk about fuel because I think we're all aware of it. Is that something that was caused inside Croatia? It's not. Whoever wanted to follow, could see that it was happening right now, from Great Britain, China, India, America, in the end, Germany, is it possible for our little country not to be overrun? That's impossible. So what was the state doing? Then what was Governor Vujcic doing? The CNB Act states that product prices should be protected. The government, if there is little responsibility, will protect the standard of citizens. What happened? Nothing. We are now looking at the same scenario that we were watching in 2008, when they told us that our economy is independent of the influence on the outside, we are going to go through it automatically, and then some countries have gone into recession and come out after 3 years, we have gone into recession and we've been out for 8 years because it's God's economy independently. At this point, we're in the middle of a maybe a perfect economic storm. At this point, we have money pumping into the system because of the epidemic, we have product shortages, we have price increases, we have potential interest rates growth, we have credit growth, and all of this may be waiting for us. I wonder what the country is specifically about the rules on this matter? What he did to the CNB on this matter. Besides, you want to know how citizens live? So take their minimum wage that you're afraid you've improved and lived with it for a month and then tell me that you've done everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57771	Thank you. Now you should speak to your colleague Pupovac, but he's gone, so he loses his right to speak. And then, as 10th and 9th respectively, a respected colleague, Bojan Glavasevic, will now address on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57831	He was sick last week for the prime minister and HDZ. Plenkovic first admitted defeat in the clash with President Milanovic over the election of the Supreme Court president, then it was announced that the HDZ was responsible, be careful not to blame me nicely but responsible, for the crime at the time of Ivo Sanader and must return the estranged 14.6 million kuna and then I guess that the injuries would add an insult to the evil opposition together, maliciously and rudely block the election of HRT chief director. I'm sure there was a silent sobbing of the least violin in the world in the Ban Courts this weekend that played the prosecution for our prime minister and his party. Could the prime minister really have done anything but complain to the Croatian public that everyone has conspired against him and his good intentions for this country? Despite his efforts to explain, the Croatian public cannot understand how he is a heir to Tudjman's HDZ, directly. He skipped the HDZ of Ivo Sanader, he skipped the HDZ of Jadranka Kosor, he also skipped the HDZ of Tomislav Karamark, I guess, I don't know, by falling into some sort of space-time wormhole probably lucid in Brussels, somewhere near... For example... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the Brussels wormhole, the joke and cynicism aside. In democratic societies, it is normal and expected that diverse political options offer different political visions of the society in which we live. What we are expected to agree on are the democratic foundations of the society in which we live. That means we agree on the rules of the game, how we will make decisions about democratic procedure. If these rules are respected, the debate in parliament is expected to be a conflict of vision and arguments, not a joint action of ideologically different political options. However, when the ruling violates the rules of the game, when they do not comply with the procedure, the only responsible behaviour of the opposition to stand up together against it, even at the cost of stopping the normal work of parliament. In other words, and at the cost of stopping the political process. The message that is sent is that we will not tolerate authoritarian moves and the violation of democracy. And every time he finds himself in problems HDZ was he Sanader, Tudjmanov or Plenkovic, that's exactly what he does. Well, as loud as our prime minister is about a bad week, he'll have to accept that in a democratic society it's normal to lose sometimes, even if you're in power. The prime minister would have to be very happy that he lost because of the joint action of the opposition because we preserved both his face and Croatia and he can only be sorry that we had to protect the dignity of the constitution and the law of this country instead of the arguments he refused to hear. You should think of something else as a prime minister. The opposition is currently united, however, in much more lasting and deeper political alliances than we have in the two EU countries, Poland and Hungary. These are two countries where the rule of law is not respected, in which the autocrats in power are trying to destroy freedom of the media, two countries where corruption is a serious problem. Does our nominally convinced European and Democrats Andrej Plenkovic want Croatia to stand by those countries as an example of what is wrong, is that his European dream? I hope it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57832	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57833	Thank you, Mr. President. Injury. 238, a colleague Glavasevic here degrades the two elected authorities of Poland and Hungary, a friendly country of Croatia, in every respect friendly, and your position should not be taken personally and politically because these countries, in them, have chosen power from their people, and all that you are saying here so far and this demagogue you are selling is not true. The Polish and Hungarian people have chosen these authorities and have the right to rule their country however they wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57834	Thank you very much, dear colleague. A colleague Milanović litre you get a warning, it is clear here there is no damage to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Glavasevic, presented his position, and you disagree with him, but that is not the reason to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Totgergeli on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57917	Thank you, dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, and here we continue to hear from this pay phone continuous criticism on the government's account, including attempts to intimidate citizens by the opposition, and all on the issue of price growth, energy prices, electricity prices rise, gas, fuel and construction that the government will do nothing to prevent the rise of these prices, i.e. to prevent and increase inflation. The price of electricity and gas prices will not change for the household. Citizens are safe and should not fall for the threats that come from the opposition because the price of energy on the world market has grown, our citizens are currently paying a lower price of electricity and gas than many citizens in the countries of our environment and this will remain until the end of the warm season, that is, by the spring of next year. Croatia will, by all accounts, be among the last countries to raise electricity prices. What's being challenged here, but we have a strong power industry. HEP is actually worth the gold in this situation. Often, however, we have had criticism from the opposition on the LNG term, but this year it was released and it also provides a new supply route for gas. On the other hand, underground warehouses are full and at the level of 90% of annual gas consumption for the household. While at the same time, say, European warehouses are at 75%. So we can say that we are safe on the side of the amount we need for the heating season, and we are safe about the price of gas for the household. When we talk about fuel prices, the government intervened. It applied the provisions of the Oil Products Act and adopted a regulation limiting the most retail prices of petroleum products. Thus, the maximum retail price, together with VAT, is limited to € 11.10 per litre for petrol and €11 per litre for diesel fuels and all for 30 days. This restriction ensures stability and peace in the business sector, first of all, among our carriers, but also throughout the economy because there is no product on which, in a small or large part, its prices are not affected by transport. If the government hadn't intervened, the price of gasoline would have reached 12 kuna per litre today. As the Government has reacted without delay at the beginning of the Covid crisis, which was again criticised by the opposition and financial measures, or by the directive payments of funds to the private sector, made it possible to preserve jobs and the existence of thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs, at the right time, and again the first in Europe, or the EU, to bring this Regulation and stabilised retail fuel prices in the Republic of Croatia. If, during these months, as far as this Regulation is in force, price stabilisation on the reference markets does not occur, the Government will spottly monitor, analyse the situation and continue to react to new measures as necessary. From everything said, it is clear that at this moment the prices of energy, electricity, gas for household, fuel in the Republic of Croatia are stable and clear messages from this government that they will do everything necessary to keep it that way and all in order to create conditions for the full recovery of our economy. On the other hand, the firm position of this government is visible that with its decisions and these difficult times and the Covid crises and earthquakes that have hit us, we make timely decisions in order to preserve ourselves first, and then improve to reach the standard of our citizens' lives. What do we hear today from the opposition? It's just criticism. But what else? In what is the Parliament’s most successful opposition today? Well, maybe she's the most successful at creating new clubs because practically everyone was today an opposition club, and I'm the only one from the ruling majority, and by the end of the term, I expect you to form a few more clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57918	Thank you. Thank you very much. We've come to an end with a view. The 5th debate will be her respected colleague Bartulice on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u57982	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have repeatedly said behind this speaker that stability in Croatia, which often stands out as a major achievement, is politically in reality a stagnation. There are more reasons for this, we should not repeat that we do not stand well by many indicators and that Croatia remains at the bottom of the scale with regard to competitiveness and other important indicators of the situation in the EU. However, some of the things that I think have a lasting value should be repeated, so we believe in the Homeland Movement that the share of the total state remains too high in Croatia, that Croatia is a hyper-regulated country, is almost perfect for consultants who offer services, help ordinary people to cope with the forest regulations and various regulations. This logic indicates that governments or government measures are often the cause of the problem, not solutions, so I will repeat, the cause of the problem, not solutions. And now we have this situation with an increase in prices on the energy market, it's certainly not something the government can control, but it certainly wants to create the impression that it's doing something, that it's doing something to make things easier for the citizens to simply cope with this new inflation situation. However, I will refer to this decision to freeze fuel prices, so the first question is why are other governments in the EU not doing so? So many economists warn of the many possible consequences that can happen soon, can occur very quickly to the disturbances of the quantity and quality of these products. That experience shows countless times. Therefore, this intervention and this decision directly affects, on offer and demand, this relationship. Maybe even some say there's a shortage of fuel. It's not the first time this has happened since these decisions. And I'll repeat, I don't think it's a good precedent, it's not a good signal, and as we know, these decisions, unfortunately, can also become a standard of conduct, not just an exception. The question is also why do not make similar decisions for other areas, such as the real estate market. In many cities prices are very high due to high demand. Why don't the government limit the prices of a square, residential square, why don't they do that if it's a simple solution? So it's not that simple and can cause more damage than benefits. As for what the government might and should do, I suggest that it reduce the excise duty on fuel. Among the new EU members, Croatia has the highest rates, the highest excise rates, so fuel is quite expensive with us compared to other Middle Eastern European countries. We have railroads like we have, and the question is why is it such a state, my own, my intuition speaks because the state runs railways all the time and people have no choice but to drive. So the situation is bad and we need to change this mentality I'd say that it's viewed as an economy as a zero-sum game, we're going to take someone and give it to someone else. No, we need to relieve the economy, make it possible for people in Croatia to free up the potential for people to create themselves, so they will grow in time that cake, we need to move away from that mentality that is actually costing us. And once again, I will say that the cost of not doing, not implementing those reforms that are constantly being delayed, is quite high and rising, so this is what the government should do, and not this way intervene in the prices of certain products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58017	Now it's my colleague Daus' turn on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, reporting for today's presentation of the IDS Club's position, offered me a truly disastrous result of a competition to assist the wine sector where of the 388 registered secured money for just 44 wineries. Below the line remained a total of almost 90% of applicants, the reason why it explains the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is that, after administrative control of all the arrivals, it is found that there is not enough funding for all eligible projects, so one wonders who is crazy here. The big bells ring that farmers apply to funds, each so many conferences that come to be photographed by government representatives, ministries that promise big money from eu funds, and then there's only enough for about 10% of those who apply. And all these entrepreneurs together invested at least 10 million kuna in the documentation, and the estimate was that the amount was much higher because of the more complex and expensive project documentation in the application for reconstruction and construction of the winery, and there were quite a few. It's about what happened. the wine envelope or the financing of the measures under the National Programme shall assist the wine sector for the period 2019-2023 and investment in wineries and wine marketing where, from 267, only 37 of them are above the project line of total value 126 million kuna and the restructuring and conversion of vineyards where 121 applications have been received, but only seven have been granted co-financing of around 22 million kuna. It should be said that 215 crafts or companies that have lost significant resources have met administrative control as the first prerequisite in the process. We're talking to farmers on the ground these days, they're disappointed, they're bitter, they're losing their will and trust in the resolution agency and the ministry, and it's not good and we're not really happy about it. Many of them are from Istria, but from other parts of Croatia some of them are highly recognized and famous for their proven products in the country and abroad. After a catastrophic last year caused by the covida-19 pandemic when many sales completely stopped this year a new blow from those who were supposed to be the backdrop. This has a particular additional weight when it is known that most users have started preparing the project documentation precisely in the biggest crisis for the wine sector and that they do not now have the possibility to recover the funds invested. What is really the point of all of this would certainly not have occurred if the agencies and the ministry had transparently published the total location when the competitions were announced as they do in the rural development programme measures, then the users would be aware of the risks and opportunities for what number of applications there are sufficient allocations. Last week, when the ranking was published, it was still not clear that there was a clear allocation of the funds and according to which the Agency defined the budget, but only indicated that there was not enough resources available for the current financial year. In order for the problem to be clearer, there have been funds for all applications in previous competitions in recent years, so most applicants felt that this would be the case. However, it should be noted that the application and implementation of the projects under all the measures of the wine envelope is a series of illogicalities and unnecessary costs for winemakers and winemakers, and that this has not yet been made easier on the part of the agency even though it has been warned for many years. All this is starting to be sadder when it is realized that the exploitation of all measures in this sector is at very modest levels, it only bounces last year when it was an extraordinary covid measure for distillation and storage, but since the wine sector's goal is to sell and must be sold, the storage was only last year because of the familiar situation. That is why we call on the RES and the Agency to sit down as soon as possible, agree on additional funds and save the wine industry that suffered heavy blows last year and need urgent help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58104	Now she will speak to a respected colleague, Marijana Puljak, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58105	On Wednesday 13 October, a meeting of the Economic and Social Council was held to discuss high energy prices. The conclusion was that a decision to increase prices is not possible through the government's influence in the economy because prices are conditioned by external market influences, it was estimated that the situation is not dramatic but if the needs of the state will intervene. Just the day after this conclusion, so less than 24 hours on Thursday, 14.10 at the government meeting through a special item of the agenda, a Regulation on oil derivatives is adopted. The prime minister said at the beginning of the session that, taking into account the economic situation with the aim of uninterrupted economic recovery, they decided to use the possibility of stabilising oil derivatives prices within 30 days. What happened in the meantime for such a big turn in one day? Is it possible that the Supreme Court's verdict is 13.10. HDZ confirmed as a corrupt political organisation for corruption and withdrawal of money in the Fimi Media case? Could this maneuver be part of a distraction from the fact that our country is leading to corruption is a legally condemned political organization? The news of which is constantly diminished through the information emissions of radio television. The government intervened and halted the price rise of oil derivatives, limited the prices of gasoline and Eurosuper and Eurodizel to 30 days, thus the government decided on state interventionism at the time of inflation and crisis. But the companies selling fuel immediately hit the government’s slap, practically responding to the government’s decision by publishing the shortage of certain derivatives, so - called derivatives. premium fuel. They are somewhat luxury goods, mostly used by owners of new cars, and the average age of the rolling stock in Croatia is 14.2 years, with 68% of vehicles over 10 years of age. According to this, as if there were no major problems, shortages will not affect a large number of people, but shortages are never good and users of these fuels have suffered damage. If this continues, there may be shortages and other types of fuel. Croatians pay one of the largest, and some estimates also include the highest price of oil derivatives in the EU in terms of population income. If they are part of the big margin problem, which makes this government want to insinuate an even bigger problem are large excise duties and VAT which are a significant part of the price of fuel in Croatia. The state decided to switch the problem of increasing fuel prices to distributors rather than giving up its share of the cake. How much of the fuel price is given to the State? Of the 11 kuna per litre of Eurosuper 1.1 kuna goes to distributor, 2.2 kuna for VAT i.e. State, 4.4 kuna for various types of excise duty, and 3.3 is the price of a litre of fuel itself. In other words, the state takes 6.6 kuna or 60% of the fuel price goes to the state. What's with the excise duty? Well it's actually a regular state racket, fuelling in Croatia you also support HZ which are a state-owned company at 18th century development level. 30-pack of fuel charges go to them, a little more than one kuna is intended for Croatian roads and highways, and the rest of the excise duty goes to the state bank for other state needs. The reduction of excise duties directly opens the space for a reduction in fuel prices. The temporary reduction of all excise duties on petroleum products would make life easier for all citizens, especially those who pass great distances daily to their place of work. With high excise duties, the state punishes all workers, and it takes away a large part of their gross salary to take away more VAT, excise duties and other charges from the rest of the net wage. It would be nice if in the coming difficult times in the name of solidarity with workers who finance an entire state apparatus to give up at least a small part of what they consider to be her. This way, when prices start to freeze and distributors fall, everything they have lost during this period will be charged to end-users because they will slow down the prices more slowly. They always end up paying the citizens for all that and all this at the end of the pay out of their pocket. As one journalist put it nicely, the state has nothing that has not taken away workers and entrepreneurs, if at least nothing would be wise for it not to destroy workers and entrepreneurs because otherwise it will have no one to take away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58156	Now he will speak to a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58157	In most parliaments in the world, there is opposition and power. Some have no opposition, for example. There is no opposition in Serbia today. Also in the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian Parliament there is opposition and power and Croatian sovereigns are opposition, so we do not support this current government of Andrej Plenkovic, we do not support a coalition that manages Croatia or we do not support HDZ and their friends from the SDSS and we vote against the budget, and we also voted against this Government of the Republic of Croatia. And we will also vote at tomorrow's vote against the proposal to appoint Robert Schwebb as director of HRT because we believe it is a candidate who is not to be elected. However, there is no united opposition in the Croatian Parliament and we Croatian sovereigns have not united with anyone, we are Croatian sovereigns. So when the company gathers here around the pay phone, please let the Croatian media know that Croatian sovereigns are not here for the pay phone and that they are not performing the circus in the Croatian Parliament. There were also no colleagues from the SDSS, no pardon IDS, no lapus. So we are for democracy, and all those who forget what democracy is I will remind them. There is a possibility that the people in the elections will choose those who want them and represent them and then by legitimate means in the Croatian Parliament, our parliament is fighting for its views, legitimate. There are other ways to play democracy, which is, for example, The national referendum, and then we Croatian sovereign together with our friends, whom I welcome our friends from HSP this way, organise a national referendum or support the initiative to protect the Croatian Kuna. And I call on the opposition that part of the united should support us in this initiative, not because they are for the kuna or for the euro, but because of the fact that a referendum happens, and then some people in the referendum decide whether to keep the currency in the Croatian Kuna or maybe to change into the euro, it is only a matter of whether you are in favour of a referendum on which people will decide what it is. With all due respect to my colleagues from the left of Wei, SD, SDP and similar parties, we don't intend to hug you or ever usurp this payphone because I will repeat, although we are opposition to all key issues in HS and we will try to bring down this power of HDZ and SDSS, we are also not for the circus, but we are for HS to have its own dignity. For those who have forgotten this is the most important place for Croatian politics, the most important and has their dignity, and those who want democracy I call on them to join the referendum initiative, to support the referendum initiative, to encourage their members and supporters to collect signatures to make a referendum happen, to make democracy happen, to protect the Croatian Kuna, or to decide at the referendum whether, is the Croatian people for the euro or for the kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58158	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58159	A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. In 238 he spoke of an opposition circus, it was only a circus of rulings who violated the Rules of Procedure of HS and Law, and if it hadn't been for this action, we would have voted long ago on the director of HRT, so don't help the ruling. And as for the referendum, every referendum and this initiative of yours has support, so we want the Croatian people to declare themselves...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58160	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning from your colleague, this was a pure replica. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, he's been warned by his colleagues, Grmoi, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58161	I'll take my chances. So, Art. 238nd fellow Grumoja thank you for supporting the referendum, here I would like to see little more of you and your party engage in the referendum if I have not noticed... hired but thank you at least for this declarative support from the heart thank you, I will even say I had no doubt that we would get even the declaratory support. And as for what's going to happen or what's happening, it's your right. It is our right not to participate in such matters as your right to participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58162	This is more than clear that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure so you get a warning. We are now going to the 2nd debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, dear colleague Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58211	Here is a colleague and colleagues, truth be told, a colleague of Petrov did not fully express and convey the exact words of both Prime Minister and Minister Aladrovic that they would deal with this crisis, inflation, if you remember, means after the Economic and Social Council, Minister Aladrovic mentioned only one thing that would change maybe, and that may be, and that is the amount of minimum wage. But if his statement about a phenomenal place to live was a scrupulous statement, then this is an even more scrupulous statement from a colleague and a colleague. Why? Because by the end of October, the minimum wage must be raised and the minimum wage must be higher every year than the previous one. So Minister Aladrovic promises us something he must do by law. The same as, if you remember, the prime minister said that in 2 years we will have an average salary, otherwise EUR 1000 is a minimum wage in Slovenia. But I would warn you precisely why one passing law seems to be all the constituencies and MPs below the radar, and it's just a matter of making sense with these pay-lifting problems, with the price hike and the minimum wage, which is exactly the fellows and colleagues of the Minimum Salary Act that comes to the Committee of Labour tomorrow, which, at the same time, is almost the same time that we have a vote in the assembly. So much for how important it is to the Labour Committee and its president this Minimum Payment Act. The minimum wage law is why we warned before the Workers' Front means everything, all trade unions that respond will allow in addition to existing legal opportunities to pay workers less than another exception. So if there is a signed collective agreement under Article 5, which amends Article 8 of the existing law, it will now be possible for workers to be paid less than minimum in those industries where they will work less monthly, in certain months to work less, and in certain months more. And then Minister Aladrovic said the minimum salary at the level of the year will be used. However, the regulation to be adopted by the end of this month stipulates that no one should receive a salary less than minimum if he works full-time. Otherwise, Article 8 should be completely deleted because there is another provision, which is that the pay is less than minimum if there is a collective contract of such content can receive 95% of the minimum wage amount, which is also, let's say openly counter-constitutional. All minimum salaries in Croatia are anti-constitutional because they do not satisfy Article 56. The constitution that workers and their families should have a decent life if they are busy and work. But this law brings a number of other problems, so as you probably heard, Minister Aladrovic boasts that the minimum wage will be calculated in gross amounts, not in net terms, which is good, but it will increase workers' salaries by around 50 kuna. The problems here are still intense, aren't they? It is not only that it will now allow the salary to be less than minimum and it will be applied that, to warn the labour intensive processing industry where such a case is that in some months it is more, some less, but this law has introduced one provision that says that it will not be able to determine by rates or percentages how much overtime, work on Sundays, means all these pay additions and that we have to be fair and say about the union's demand. But why the union search? So collective agreements can arrange better percentages. However, trade unions should also be warned that the government has given its opinion on an EU regulation that is currently related to the cross-border of collective agreements and the increase in minimum wages by answering the EU that this is too high an ideal. The 70 per cent network required by this regulation is an inaccessible ideal for our government that is not realistic. We only have the cross-network of collective agreements 46% which is 20% less in just 20 years. So the government is re-signing with the unions a type of deal with a fig in its pocket and it doesn't intend to raise minimum wage or increase networking by collective contracts at all. There are more problems in this law that we've passed on to the unions and I hope they react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58282	Now it is the sixth debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will be held by a respected colleague, Siniša Hajdas Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58283	Good morning, Honorable President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. The subject of today's free debate is actually Andrej Plenkovic or the magistrate, maestar, so I will call it in my presentation. I don't know if you noticed, so a few days ago yesterday, one interesting phenomenon yesterday, so the CNB which should be done as an independent institution predicts that there might be an increase in interest which is, say, in this world, and we're still living in some capitalist liberal sphere is actually normal, we know what's going on that there's been a quantitative drop in money both in the US and in Europe, and that this is how we're trying to prevent the pandemic. That always as it happens in crises that most of that money goes into real estate and enters some speculative investment. Take a look at how much investment has actually grown in crypto currency, for example, so where people invest that money. And then all of a sudden, the CNB that actually needs to do says there's a danger, so he has to do it independently, let's call it an independent central bank. And then Andrej Plenkovic says it's not a topic. And that topic should probably disappear in public space now. And now we're going back to this topic of inflation. So 3 are the key things of the economy 1 that inflation depends on. So that's where we have the so-called. import inflation means the price of raw materials, oil, certain import resources, we have the availability of domestic resources, therefore, which absolutely also has inflationary movements, the question is whether if we look at it just like that in a closed system whether these inflationary movements depend, in part, on the increase in personal income both in Europe and in Croatia, therefore which is not in correlation with productivity growth. And there are third expectations for you. Listen, your expectations are crucial. You know how much inflation there is in Croatia if we compare now year after year. 1.8. 3.3 if we compare September this year to September last year. But it's all a matter of statistics. The question which products grow and what prices rise. Now what is the key role of the government? It means it controls inflation expectations, manages them. And I think she completely lost the compass. So the whole media space about some kind of inflation and something, everyone's saying something, but the signals to the citizens are not being given to the government. So how do you behave? It's the role of the government. What was the government's first move? You mentioned, limiting the fuel price is so without light compensatory measures. So again, there are some expectations that have already been created, and I'm always talking about expectations even the Nobel Prize has been won for it in the economy of course. And what happened? Maybe there'll be a stalemate, you've already had some premium fuel prices, so apparently there won't be any more. Why? Because they're your so-called. ceilings and basements in the economy. They put the ceiling up and that's how it's gonna be. How much? A month, two months, three months. And you have a much better measure for that, because from now on let me say laymanly than 12 kunas, fuel costs 12 kunas 6 kunas to you is half, minimum. What's your better measure? Swimming excise duties, absolutely swimming excise duties falling as fuel prices rise or rise means fuel prices are falling. You already have kuna and 20 that go to HZ Infrastructure, so not in passenger infrastructure, go to HAC to go to Croatian roads. So let's always get HZ off the side and the Croatian road and HAC, so that part, so we're not talking about the year, we're not talking about 400 million kunas that amount to you, we're talking about 2-3 months, they can substitute it, they can issue, let's say, cash registers with 0.8 you can substitute them, and in this way directly reduces the price of fuel, I repeat, affect inflation because somewhere it affects fuel inflation 0.8, so it reduces this so-called. Inflation expectations, and we have something else we may have forgotten. I don't know if you dear colleagues and colleagues remember, I don't know if that decision was put out of force. It means March 14th, 2020. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a decision on exceptional price control measures for certain products where a decision lays down exceptional price control measures for certain products in order to prevent the negative effects of price change or to prevent the monopolistic pricing of those products due to Covid-19 disease. I think Covid-19 is still going on and we're being taxed 20 or 25 products where the government should react. So, from flour, eggs, sugar, oils, etc., that decision is always in force and should be notified by the Ministry of Economy And to the government for what it's done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Those are your measurements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58355	Now, as the seventh one, a respected colleague, Hajdukovic, will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u58356	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I want to talk to you today about a phenomenal place for life, and it is called Croatia, as Minister Aladrovic said. You see colleagues and colleagues in this phenomenal place for life in this phenomenally arranged state, the opposition is forced to come for this pay phone to prevent something that is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure, and democracy is a procedure. In this phenomenal country, representatives of the ruling are unable to appear on the board, means neither to come to the board and raise that hand, if they will not already debate and if they have already decided to propose a candidate who is in an apparent conflict of interest and acknowledges that. In this phenomenal state, the party in power is the one who heads the country's helm, which leads the ruling coalition convicted of corruption. And in this phenomenal state, the prime minister sends us love messages about not knowing couples from the opposition who love each other so much and reminds Croatian citizens who we really are, left, right and centered already what. Well, colleagues and colleagues I would like to remind Croatian citizens that in this phenomenal place for life HDZ is a highly corrupt organisation and that HDZ is in power today, HDZ is Dr Ivo Sanader, because as the former prime minister and former president and former member of that party said, the party and its past are not a Swedish table, they will not choose what suits you but gentlemen bear the burden of your decisions, you bear the burden of what you have raised your hands and whose members you have been. In this phenomenal state, this same prime minister of possible war credits, and keep in mind that many Croatian citizens have loans, he says, so we won't jump to the first ball. My colleagues and colleagues when the governor of the CNB makes these statements and raises these doubts to me, it's not my first ball, it's my tenth ball, it's the minute until the end of the game, it's 89 minutes in the 90s probably the wars jump. In this phenomenal state, I hope you don't jump to the first ball or when it comes to rebuilding because the first ball has long passed, a year past the shovel no one has been buried, you see how much reconstruction is built in Zagreb, nothing is built, not to mention what is done in Banja, which is done in Sisak, nothing is done, even people are denied a meal. In this phenomenal country, agriculture is on its knees in this phenomenal state, and our cattle farmers are in great crisis because there won't be enough livestock food, and we're either instigating or not knowing what we're up to because we don't have a strategy, and in that phenomenal state, that phenomenal prime minister isn't jumping to the right ball. Valda is waiting for everything to go to waste, then she'll take measures, limit or fix prices, etc. In this phenomenal country, fuel prices are rampant, inflation is something that will apparently happen, food prices are rising from day to day. And what does the government do? Little bit of nothing, limiting fuel prices and that's it. My colleagues and colleagues in this phenomenal country for life most of our fellow citizens can't plan some great future, the best I can hope for is that with relative dignity they live, which means they're hot, dry and they have something to eat, literally because in this phenomenal country with phenomenal minimum wage, that's all you can hope for. And what's the state's response to the food price rampage? He's gone, his colleagues and colleagues, the awesome answer is that there's no answer. And as a responsible opposition, we must warn and draw attention to the fact that in this phenomenal state, people who live phenomenally will soon and have little dignity that has been denied and why. It is not all the government's fault that we understand each other, some things are also under the influence of the global market and movement on them, but in this phenomenal state for life this phenomenal corrupt HDZ is doing nothing phenomenally to prevent what is behind the hill, and I am afraid for Croatians built with this kind of power it is worth a little bit of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63786	We've come to an end with a view, so now we're going to move on to the announced agenda. - Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television; Proposing the Committee on Information, Information and Media on the basis of Article. 19a of the HRT Act. So before I give my word to the motionary, colleague Grbin, I assume you'll be calling for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63787	Dear Mr President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a recess on this item of the agenda because it is necessary to remind what happened with the appointment of the head director of the HRT. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last week we had to block Parliament's work at some point because the point that was proposed against the law came to the agenda. I don't know how many times this has happened in the history of Parliament's work, but the Constitution Committee had to cancel the session of the second working body. But it's only part of the problem. It is a suggestion that at the head of the HRT, the head of an entity that has much more than a billion kunas is appointed annually by a person who is in an eclatant conflict of interest. The person who was known to have been chosen before the public tender. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have a majority, you will decide what you decide. But just remember what the HRT journalists said about the pressures they experienced, about the lawsuits that were happening and I suggest, that today, if we choose Mr. Schwebb as head director, we all send a clear message together that censorship on HRT must not happen, that money must be spent transparently, that conflict of interest is not acceptable, and in particular that we all send a message together that all complaints against journalists, which journalists are burdened with in their work, must be withdrawn urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63788	The apartment will be approved. The other one came forward, Col. Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63789	Dear Chairman, on behalf of the MOST Club, I request a 10-minute recess to further consult on the modality of conflicts of interest and the way in which we will present today the candidate you have proposed. Namely, in a situation where the former head director of HRT ended up in a detention that was extended to him, and we see today, he was released this morning, circled around, doesn't have to worry because he obviously gets a worthy successor, in that situation when the reputation of public service is at the lowest possible branches. It was very important that the procedure for the election of the new principal be crystal clear and that it be a professional and moral and business unquestionable person. Instead, we received a process that was contaminated from the beginning to the end, from the text of the competitions for which the legal experts, including some professors from the law school, warned that he was against the law because he did not contain the provisions of the Law on Defences that you have brought, and because of the same thing, the tender of the theatre council or the 40th competitions for principals of primary schools, and even Minister Obuljen gave instructions that the institutions from the culture for competitions had to put those provisions, so the competition itself was asked. Then candidate Schweb did not make a valid statement asking for the text of the tender that he was not as a candidate in the conflict of interest but would not be in conflict of interest if he was elected, there are 5 sports channels among others that have been approved at the 10th year. and are in a situation of unsecured conflict of interest with HRT, and to the latest information that the translators working for HRT are working on software that manufactures and sells the company of the same Mr. Schwebb. So, it's about an eclectic whole series of conflicts of interest, and we need to figure out all the elements of these conflicts of interest ourselves in order to bring them out more transparently, so I'm asking you for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63790	Thank you. Yeah, yeah, the break will be approved. There's also a colleague, Puljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63791	Dear President, here I am looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club to further consult on this point. HRT as a public service to its timely, independent and transparent information should be powerful, if not the most powerful weapon in the fight against corruption. And what do we have here today? We have the HRT which the former director ended up in Remetinco because of what investigators say is the carrying of bribes to Milan Bandic and therefore the chief director of HRT in custody for corruption, and it is also known that he sued those who dared to write critically about the work and business of the service we all pay. After that, and such a director today, by ruling us a man who is in deep conflict of interest, whose companies are now doing millions of jobs with HRT and who will not be stopped by handing over his management rights to a law firm, a man who was an employee of HRT, who left the position of HTV's director after only 8 months because his atmosphere was not good, and as he says today, the atmosphere is even worse. The question arises why does Andrej Plenkovic insist so much on the appointment of Schwebb despite numerous visible shortcomings in his candidacy? Will this appointment at all costs result in Croatia's future director returning the service to Plenkovic in the way that HRT will remain HDZ's and become a public service to praise Andrej Plenkovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63792	And this break has been approved. 4th in a row, my colleague Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63793	Here on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to also warn about the problem that's emerging here. Yesterday we also discussed on one round table why this choice isn't, it's not correct. But first of all, I have to say that here at this point, so when we probably won't be able to influence Robert Schwebb's choice as head director of HRT, we have a classic public hacking situation by the private. So Robert Schweb is in an ecluent conflict of interest, I would say even double because on the one hand we have a man who is a co-owner of a company whose direct interest is in competition, competition with HRT or the failure of HRT is their success and that's the failure of sports programs, and on the other hand, as we hear from the workers, there's no verified information, but it's possible to sell software through another firm to HRT, a double conflict of interest. In any case, yesterday we heard from the Minister of Culture that it was our impression of opposition, that it was an anti-zoonical choice, but the Law on HRT clearly speaks, so Article. 25th century 2 that the candidate must submit a statement, I quote, that he is not in conflict of interest, and not that he can give a statement that he is in conflict of interest, so he will later regulate that it was explained to us by the minister yesterday and that it was Robert Schweb himself that explained it. It cannot be in conflict of interest, and it is very likely that the Constitutional Court could actually annul this choice. That's why, of course, we'll be against this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63794	Is there anyone else who wants to take this? No, I don't. Then we'll continue the break by 10 o'clock and 45 minutes. It's 10.33 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.47 HOURS]] No, you can't ask for a break now, it was a break, so we can't do that, now we're done, and now you're looking again. After we go to work, then you can ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63796	And where does that say? I mean, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63797	Here you go. Have a seat. So there's common sense, if the breaks were over, I approve the break, go back, you're looking for a break again. So after we go to work, after someone says something, then you can ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63798	I know, but there's a Rules of Procedure that says I can look for a break before a certain point starts, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63799	Yeah, but we did it now, so then...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63800	Other clubs are, here's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63801	I'm asking you, please, when the first club of MPs is over, or when the promoter is done, then ask for a break, but we're not going to introduce this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63802	All right, here's what I'm asking you to do in your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63803	Well, not everything can be prescribed, there are some good customs and some kind of practice and some kind of common sense. It's not possible, you'll always find a way to, even if you write best, there'll always be ways to play it. But please hold on to this and so far it's always been. So now I'm going to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is respected board president Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63804	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Information, Information and Media at the 19th session held on 18 October 2021. It has established a proposal for a decision to appoint the head director of HRT. Point one, as head director of HRT, is named Robert Schweb. Point two, this decision will be published in the National Journal and effective on the day of its adoption. Reason under point one, the Information, Information and Media Committee at its 19th session held on 18 October 2021. He discussed the appointment of the head director of the HRT, and after the debate was held with 7 votes to determine the proposal submitted by HS. The HS shall appoint the head director of the HRT to the majority of the votes of all MPs in the HS for a term of office of 5 years. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63805	Thank you. Let's go now, do you want to take a break first or do we do the replicas, and then after that break? Replications, good. [[Storm from the bench: Replica]] Then let's go with the replicas, first up, comrade Selak Rasdic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63806	We are aware of everything that happened last week and I am glad that I was part of a united opposition that taught the ruling structure that I cannot just violate the country's legal regulations to impose on my candidates. What I'm going to ask you is if you think that the entire board session, and that appointment process was just a farce, because we all knew for weeks in advance, and that came out publicly who the minister's candidate was. And imagine miracles, the rumor broke that it was Mr. Schwebb, and in the end Mr. Schwebb was chosen by the ruling majority. So why should this kind of procedural game that sends a clear message to Croatian citizens that they should not even answer the competition, public calls, etc., because it is all just a farce, and real candidates and future directors agree in advance on some lunches and past the public's eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63807	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63808	I can't comment on who knew what, who assumed what, who thought what. In accordance with the law and procedures, I have implemented the procedure on the committee as chairman of the board and most of the votes have taken this decision, which we are proposing today, HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63809	Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63810	At the first cancelled board session, we had a situation that two members of the ruling majority were not there but deposited their vote. And now the question arises how did they know who would be proposed if only at that sitting, Mr. Kapulic, on behalf of the ruling majority, presented the candidate, so obviously the agreement existed, existed earlier. After the non-respect of committee 6 of us MPs from the opposition left the session, the session was continued without a quorum of 5 out of 13 members and Mr. Schweb's candidate was elected. After a written warning to the president of the assembly and you were given no answer but only after the clone of the phantom session held the next day when with 7 votes, you had a quorum, re-elected Mr. Schwebb, held a closed session once again, only after pressure from the parliamentary debate was the Committee on the Constitution annulled those decisions. Do you think you should apologize here in the assembly for this mess that's taken place?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63811	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63812	I've been led in accordance with positive parliamentary practice. The voice deposit system exists on both our committee and on the vast majority of other committees. The voice depositing system was something we had several times and at our board meetings where you were present. This time, the opposition decided that it would not apply a positive practice of depositing votes and that it would be managed strictly by the Rules of Procedure, which I accepted and then called for a new session, there was a procedural error in the session itself. I accepted, of course, the decision of the Rules of Procedure Committee, and we called for a new session in which we held a full debate in the way we were supposed to conduct it, and we held a vote with 7 votes to propose this candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63813	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63814	Art. 238, this interpretation is indeed a demeaning of parliamentary representatives, but also of the Croatian public. It is not about the positive practice of depositing votes, it is about the practice of depositing bodies through which the quorum was held. It is one thing to have a quorum, and then to deposit a voice, and the other is that a person who does not hold a quorum, so don't confuse those two things and send the wrong message to the Croatian public. This was not about the deposit of votes, it was about the depositing of the body, which was also why your session was annulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63815	I have to give you a warning because this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now there's another breach of the rules of procedure, colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63816	I thank the president. I rarely, in this way, lift up the breach of my rules of procedure, and even more rarely confirm what my colleague Selak Rasdic said before, but this really represents a harsh insult to all parliamentary representatives, this is an injury. 238. To say that this was a positive practice of depositing signatures after the complete opposition was able to prove that outside of the statute you insisted on carrying out an illegal corruption tender for the election of the head director of HRT is indeed the new bottom of Croatia's political legal practices. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Oreshkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63817	You're getting a warning... Okay, interesting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Upadica Oreshković: I am pleased to receive.]] Let's move on, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63818	My colleagues. In addition to agreeing with my colleagues in what they have stated that you have no right and which is why you have a board session at all because you did not have an adequate way and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the HS, I have to ask you a question. Do you understand that the person you support is supported by a competition that is not in accordance with the law? If that's clear to you, is it clear to you that the candidate you're proposing admitted to himself is already in conflict of interest in the competition you've chosen him over says that the candidate must not be in conflict of interest. He admitted to you that he was in conflict of interest. Are you aware of that? Are you aware that this same man has already damaged HRT? And if you're aware of all this, what are you proposing this man for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63819	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63820	Well, the procedure was conducted by the Supervisory Board as prescribed. We accepted all the candidacys that were justified by the Supervisory Board's decision, we held talks with all the candidates, all the board members got an insight into their programmes and their overall documentation, and on the basis of that we made a decision by majority of the votes on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63821	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63822	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. There has already been a lot of words about the way the procedure was broken last week, a broken rules of procedure that have the power of the law, and which is why the committee's meeting was set up against the law and I will not waste my word on it. But what I'm interested in is whether you can guarantee from this pay phone that the HRT will stop censoring the election of the new principal, that the new principal will stop the practice of lawsuits against journalists and complaints under way, that the new chief director will transparently manage with more than a billion kuna coming directly from the pockets of Croatian citizens and that HRT will not lead in his personal interest but in the public interest. Can you guarantee us all this stuff here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63823	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63824	And maybe you didn't understand, but I'm not running for HRT director. ... He's proposing a committee, I'm just representing a committee here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63825	A fellow coat of arms, please. ... Peace, please peace, don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's calm down. My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63826	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Comrade Natalia, you come from a party called Reformists, right, so the word itself says that you should implement some reforms, probably not as part of the ruling majority. You think this director's choice is actually going to contribute to some kind of HRT reform? Whether it will bring some new content, whether it will change the whole way to say the focus of HRT's action or remain the same, and that's probably nepotism for you, it's probably the master, the magistrate, likes to watch the movie Poltron, so we'll choose... the halftron of the ruling majority as director of the HRT of a man who probably has again as well as his previous certain conflict of interest. ...is interested in the position of reformists and you as reformists in that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63827	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63828	... The new director we received from the Supervisory Board the number of candidates who had valid documents, legitimate applications and we decided on the basis of the programme and the qualifications of candidates. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63829	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63830	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee Martincevic. Your speech is extremely short because you know there's not much reason and there's really not much to say, but really nothing very positive about Mr. Schwebb and that candidacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63831	Wait a minute, I'm sorry, what's the explanation for the break? Did you replicate or what? ... The replica, not there, is writing me an explanation for the break, there isn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63832	No, I didn't even take a break. I answered the line. It's some kind of misunderstanding. Thank you. I say, I fully understand these coalition relations and everything that has made you, of course, in this political mechanics, that you have to bring it all to this end and that you have to vote. [[The incursion president: is, is, it wrote me wrong.]] However, I would just like to ask the question you are, for example. Yesterday they witnessed a session of the board of atmosphere and how many good arguments I would say at a certain temperament was presented at that session. But I don't know how much you might have had a chance to see yesterday's journal and all that information program brings you should have seen how round the table and that committee was carried out in a completely mild hypnotizing Atmospheres. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63833	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63834	Well, we sincerely hope that the selection of the new director will improve the quality of HRT, including the information programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63835	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63836	Interesting. I have a question so you said that the Supervisory Board sent you a decision that you simply had to take. That's not true. So, right now your body has the possibility, the council has the possibility of rescinding the board because the Supervisory Board appoints and actually replaces the council. At this point, you had all the information and information about the illegal selection of candidates who are in a deep conflict of interest and according to the Law on HRT, Article 25 is a great possibility that such a choice would fall in the Constitutional Court because the candidate should have submitted a document which clearly shows that he was not in conflict of interest, and not that he was able to hand over a document in which he himself admits that he was in conflict of interest and will later regulate it. So you were familiar with a situation that was illegal and you didn't react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63837	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63838	We've done everything according to our legal options. We get a decision from the Supervisory Board, we can't question or intervene, or enter those decisions of the Supervisory Board, that would be illegal. So we acted on the reports sent by the Supervisory Board to the Assembly Committee, the HRT Supervisory Board sent to the Parliamentary Committee as legal officers, and we were the only ones who could decide about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63839	Let's move on. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63840	Dear fellow Martincevic, I sincerely feel sorry for you, you speak in plural, we, we, we. Now I'm going to ask you personally, so you personally stood here today all of us in a way that should hang because of a decision that you didn't make, but you supported it, so you shouldn't have. The fact is that you and your party are personally taking part in the farce, in the whole farce of the election of a new director who not only will, not only improve things on HRT but will be at dusk, and HRT today is at dusk of journalism, in the twilight of democracy, in the twilight of all the ugly things that are happening in Croatia, with this election will become dark. Total black darkness. And you're in it, you're called reformers. It's still not too late and I'm asking you if it's possible to think about it and promise at least me or us here that you'll consider giving up your participation in this farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63841	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63842	I here today read and represent the committee and decision of the board, so most of the Parliamentary Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63843	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63844	Dear colleagues Martincevic, you set things up as if the Croatian Parliament were some sort of flow boiler, and you are the regulator of the same. That's not true. Without the Croatian Parliament, there is no director of HRT. Unfortunately, you liked this unpleasant role to complete this farce with a staged competition, an illegal competition where 3 months ago, in fact, 3 months ago, you know who will be the new director of HRT. So I'm asking you now not as chairman of the board, but as a member of the ruling coalition who will tomorrow elect this man as director of HRT, do you really think that he will stop censorship of the persecution of journalists, lawsuits against journalists and that HRT is a public service rather than a party service exactly the man who alone of all candidates did not have a statement that he was not in any conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63845	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63846	I don't know in which way Mr. Schwebb, if he's elected to this assembly, will decide tomorrow, will run this television. We have decided on the basis of the applications we have received, based on the qualifications and programmes submitted by the candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63847	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63848	Dear colleagues, according to the latest information Mr. Kazimir Bačić is returning to HRT, I wonder if you have any information on where he will work and whether he might be a consultant to the new director. And I'm curious whether your candidate is in conflict or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63849	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63850	I don't have any information regarding Mr. Bačić. As far as the Law of Conflict of Interests is concerned, he is quite clear. So you can't and you can't be in conflict of interest when you're in office. So, when you're at the post you're doing and you're taking it, you can't be in conflict of interest, and that's perfectly clear and I expect from the Committee of Conflict of Interest, I expect it from the opposition, and I especially expect from the ruling that it will specifically monitor Mr. Schwebb's situation, and based on all the opportunities we've had to hear and read during these days, so special attention, but after that and if he's chosen because only then can he be in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63851	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63852	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues, your exposure reminds me a little bit of the parents that when the kid comes back from prom and makes a mess then the parent says I'm not responsible for his child, here's about the way. So, we are here as an opposition to the defence of democratic processes, well HDZ's opposition is not, but as an opposition we are standing here in defense of democratic processes and now, therefore, defends a man who is in an ecluent conflict of interest, and from HRT I guess both hands can be counted by journalists who are worth and who have not escaped. Well, hundreds of people have escaped from HRT in the last few days only two extremely high-quality young people have escaped from HRT. How do you think you're going to save the sinking Titanic of HRT? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63853	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63854	I'll do it again, so we decided on the basis of the applications we received from the HRT Supervisory Board. They carried out the procedure and they determined which applications were valid and which were not valid. So we decided on the basis of their decision. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63855	Comrade Kuzmanić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63856	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Martincevic, unlike some other colleagues, I highly appreciate you for the integrity you have shown several times in the session, unlike the individual homeless who, in their opinion, go to the central committee, so I need to introduce you to the new circumstances that have just been published, which is that Kazimir Bačić was released from custody last night and is returning to work on HRT. So maybe if these attitudes were revised, maybe you could make new consultations in the ruling majority, and then repeat the competition, because obviously now we have another candidate who's obviously been to the tune of the ruling majority all these years, and as they've bitterly defended him, they might now have a better candidate than Mr. Schwebb because all these years he's served them neatly and answered them. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63857	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63858	I don't have an answer, it was a finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63859	Okay. And the last replica of my colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63860	Thank you. So here we have an extraction of your colleague on the HRT Supervisory Board, so who named all these people? So Mr. Schwebb shouldn't have even come before HS, so they should have stopped him because he has a bad and illegal candidacy, man is in conflict of interest, but what to talk about when there's a canteen there too in conflict of interest. He approves of series that are over 10 million kunas, and in these series he plays himself. And you instead of stopping one of these appointments, you're pushing it. We also showed the Croatian public what you went to the board president with two bad sessions, you were caught with your fingers in a jam, and now you're taking it out that it's a proposal from the HRT Supervisory Board. No, HS is the highest institution in this country, HS votes director of HRT, and you still do not want to take your fingers out of the jam.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63861	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63862	Therefore, the selection procedure for the director is prescribed and it is prescribed that whose work is in that procedure and we have respected the procedure relating to the Supervisory Board. I apologized for the session that was called in an incorrect manner, it was the Committee on Rules of Procedure and established, after which that session was cancelled, we called a new session and made a valid decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63863	Thank you, colleague Martincevic, you are free to return to your seat. Comrade Bencic, you're staying at the request for a break? Then you'll be the first, and after that, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63864	Yeah, I thank you for not writing me a replica, come on, there's been a lot of us. So, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, I am looking for a break in order to further discuss and emphasise that all this that took place in the election of the director of HRT proves once again that Croatia as a state is indeed what is called kidnapped or captured state, that it is trapped by the ruling party and that all institutions, all institutions, however legally they should be independent, must be directly controlled by the political authority of HDZ because that is not how we would not have this charade with two, two anti-business committee sessions, so two in a row. We wouldn't have had a situation that despite the fact that the candidate you've now chosen is that. which you will vote tomorrow is now in conflict of interest and that in a conflict of interest which is indisputable because software equipment etc., which he sold to HRT will not disappear on the day of his arrival there, that the contest is clearly prescribed that the candidate should not be in conflict of interest and therefore must prove it by a statement from the public notary, the man is in conflict of interest, but he said that there will be no later. As this conflict of interest will be resolved, it will transfer its stakes to the law firm, we haven't, we haven't seen that movie yet, since we haven't seen that movie about the transfer of ownership or about the right to manage. And they won't be under suspicion all the time and you're putting him and yourself in the position that from now on you'll be responsible for every thing that happens on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63865	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63866	Dear President HS, I request a 10 minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this agenda item. I have already said in my free speech that Croatian sovereigns are an opposition to the current HDZ-SDSS government. However, I also pointed out that we have no intention of hugging the lady for a few minutes. Raukar, Bencic, with Mr Glavasevic, Hajdukovic, ma'am. A voter for this pay phone. We have no intention of rolling into the chair of the chairman if the chairman leaves this hall. So we are an opposition and we will make every effort legitimately possible that this government of HDZ and the SDSS rules as little as possible. But as far as we can!, SD, SDP and the like, I do not intend to participate, or we do not intend to participate in their circus and their play. Some have forgotten and distracted the idea that this is the most important place for Croatian politics and even for the Croatian people. We've got 1001 laws, if for every law when he's sneaking to his left, we're blocking HS's work, then we're not going to be involved in it. Of course, on the matter of Mr. Schwebb, we're going to vote against him because we think he's a bad candidate and a candidate who doesn't deserve to be the director of HRT, as well as some candidates that the SDP has delegated. Let's remember some of the SDP candidates and the law by which we're actually choosing HRT's director today, and it's brought by the SDP, and now it doesn't answer him all together. And when they brought and set up their... The principals were fine with it then. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63867	The apartment is approved. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. We will continue the debate, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague is Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63868	Representative Zekanovic injured an article. 238, insult and demeaning of MPs. No one hugged here, but the MPs took hands at the moment when the vice president gave the order to the parliamentary guard, no one was making a circus here, but the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure was defended. And there's one subtle difference, you're HDZ's opposition, and we're an opposition to HDZ because that's exactly what you need, primitive, ignorant, marginal, always ready to screw up...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63869	Comrade Rasdic, a moment, a moment, please, a moment, a moment, a moment, a fellow Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63870	... every action like, like with... Now you're doing a referendum on the euro, you're ashamed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63871	My colleague Rasdić, you are being warned for two reasons, first because this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica, and second, you have offended the other MP and for this reason you are being warned. Now it's my friend Selak Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63872	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. Unlike you, my colleague Zekanovic, who always acts destructively, I will proudly publicly tell everyone that I am glad that I was part of a united opposition that put the interest of the Republic of Croatia ahead of its particular party differences. Both colleagues and colleagues from the opposition will be happy to place that interest with you again and fight together for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63873	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, what you're saying is your right and you can sort out wherever you want, but it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63874	You've already given your colleagues a warning for a reason, but I still have to say art. In 238, there are smart people in HS, and there are smart people. Someone's going to be reminded of something, precambria, paleozoic, mesozoic, kenozoic, Cambria, ordovries, silour, Devon, carbon, perm, archaic, algontic, tertiary, quartar, division of the country's geological past.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63875	Well, you know what's waiting for you, you get a warning, you get a warning too. Col. Milanović litre, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63876	Thank you, Your Honor, President HS. Dear colleague Rasudiæ, I am truly sorry that you reacted in this way, I think we have much more in common in terms of value than what separates us. At the end of your respect, your respect for the referendum initiatives as far as I know your one of the main pre-election messages was a direct democracy, and now you honor us for trying to do so in the Republic. And I think we should ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63877	Thank you very much. A colleague, Milanović litre, gets a warning from you. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63878	... Thank you very much, Mr. President. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. [[Speaker not enabled]] [[Intruder: Turn yourself on]] I believe that in one offensive and inappropriate way, my colleague, Zekanovic, was offended. This is not how it's done, this is the most state body where pluralism exists, and everyone can express their opinion, and intellectuals are not characterized by the characteristics that they're just finishing colleges or Ph.D.s, but to show by their appropriate behavior to others how they should act, this is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63879	Thank you very much. My colleague, my colleague Petyr, thank you very much. I gave the warning, you said in the first part, but later you entered the replica, so now I'm going to give you the same warning. And when I give a warning to someone who has violated the Rules of Procedure if you later report, so you give more of your interpretations, I will have to warn you because it is no longer, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replication. Now he's reporting again for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Col. Rasdic, please. ... Why? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Ha, good. ... Yeah, a little bit, but that's what it is. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] All right, then nothing ends with the replicas or the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and we're done with the replicas, so I'm opening the debate, we're moving to a club debate, the first Social Democrats' Club, a respected colleague, Matko Kuzmanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63880	I would like to thank the President and the honourable MPs. Since this morning, I am still thinking about how to articulate this problem for both you and the Croatian citizens who are obviously confused with the situation in which we are now, so in some ways I have tried to describe in five acts what is really happening today and what we are deciding today, or what makes this competition for the director of HRT bad. First, the method of choice is morally compromised, and perhaps you would dare say in some other way, from the very beginning, even before the offers in the towers arrived, the name of Mr. Schwebb was known as the successor of Kazimir Bačić. The candidate mentioned him as a personal choice of the culture minister, so why should this competition farce be chosen in exactly the same way as the former one has already been chosen and for the sake of bagging detained Kazimir Bačić. The ruling majority who, at all costs, advocates and defends Mr. Schwebb does so in the same burning and exclusive manner as she did for Kazimir Bačić. Second thing, let's go back a little bit. Do you know why the former principal's report never came to the plenary session? Because it also didn't get the necessary majority at the parent committee session, and it came out of a clear coincidence when a fellow member of the group, Maja Grba Bujevic, accidentally left the session and did not carry out her own party task, so the HRT director's report, now formerly, in the meantime of the incarcerated jump suspect, did not get the required number of hands. counterpart Bujevic returned and protested with tears and asked for the vote to be repeated. However, the board chairman Natalija Martincevic set up exactly the right thing to do and refused to vote again. The third thing, the call for tenders and the arrival of offers are not adequately processed by the Supervisory Board, the Defence Act has been ignored, so I wonder what would happen if such a situation had happened to any other variant of the government in which the patriotic HDZ would be in opposition. The tents, gas bottles and chains would likely take place on Prisavlje, and current advocates, advocates of the election of Mr. Schwebb, would be reminded of their party's role in Croatian independence with tears in the '90s. Because of the conflict of interest, the Supervisory Board did not eliminate Mr. Schwebb from the proceedings, although according to the text of the invitation to tender he had to do so. I don't want to go into details and go ad-hominem to a candidate I consider to be a quality expert and capable of a given function but unfortunately, after all, deeply compromised. I just have to point out that when I interviewed the person concerned, I asked why he left the directorial post in 2008, and I got the answer, because of the bad atmosphere on HRT at the time and the bad interpersonal relations. Does he know what the atmosphere on HRT is like today? Either he wasn't honest about leaving at the time or he wasn't in that state of mind. Anyway, I don't know what's worse. The fourth thing, the situation on HRT today is catastrophic because in the last term, we have had all kinds of affairs that ended in bagging. From lawsuits against journalists, mobbings, sexual abuse charges, replacements of editors without criteria and the Pharaohian governance model. One thing we should accept HDZ is not buildings, cameras and frequencies, HRT is much more than that. These are people who live, journalists, correspondents, editors, cameramen, installers and all others who build this public service to the pride of all those who finance this public service. And these are Croatian citizens. And precisely because of that, the fifth thing I want to say is clear to us that the ruling majority is very important who will sit on that crucial chair for them, but responsible people cannot afford to have this public service become an extended arm of the dominant political nomenclature. That's what he's been like so far, so the results are visible to us as they are. I just wonder if the ruling majority are proud of them, or maybe they're pretending they don't know anything about it. HRT must remain free, independent and its own and must give all employees equal chances. I don't know anyone personally from the candidates in this contest, but I know which way to lead in the election. I would choose the one his employees choose because no one knows better problems on HRT than those who live and work there. And finally, if you ask me what I would do if I were Prime Minister, I would cancel the competition and replace the Minister of Culture and call a new one without party cheers, but this is not Austria, Sweden or Switzerland, this is unfortunately a Croatian member of the EU where such events are a rule and almost never an exception. And that's why we're going to vote against and hope that reason might still prevail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63881	We are now going to a second debate, Club of Representatives of the Most, a respected colleague of the Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63882	Signs get meaning depending on context. The context in which this election takes place by the head director of HRT is the former director of HRT in custody here this morning, we hear that he is orbiting both HRT and the lowest branches of the ugly reputation of the public rTV service. And I will repeat in such a situation, we who choose the principal directors to whom he and the supervisory board and the programming board both had the responsibility to pass the competition for the new director crystal clear, perfectly in accordance with the laws and regulations and to choose a completely clean person. None of that happened. There's a lot of talk about Mr. Schwebb's conflict of interest. We also mentioned that he's already done serious damage to HRT, so here's what I'm gonna start with. Namely, I have before me the minutes of the 53rd session of the HRT Programme Council held in May 2008. The main item of the agenda was the debate on the establishment of the directorship of the HRT or the commission for the implementation of the procedure and the determination of the responsibilities of all involved in the process of obtaining the right to transfer the 2009 World Handball Championship. What was that about? At the time, Mr. Schweb, who usually left HRT several times and returned in the meantime, his company's millions of jobs work with HRT, so it's hard to understand when he was there when he wasn't there, was the director of Croatian television. The head director of HRT was his superior, Mr. Vanja Sutlic. At that meeting, whose record is publicly available, Director-General Vanja Sutlic says so. First it talks about the leadership meeting and says to the former it was a meeting where there was a complete business and programme management of HRT at which we decided that compared to the tender offered by a) the purchase of the right, the World Handball Championship held in Croatia, b) signal production, c) signal production and purchase of the right, HRT reports on this c) signal production and purchase of the right. We did not implement that decision, everyone participated in this decision and gave their consent. So, what's this about? HRT management chooses a full package of offers and transmission of signals and rights and gives a warrant to the next in the chain below, it is Mr. Schweb that applies to this tender and that HTV as it has always done with important sports competitions, this especially because World Handball is primarily in Croatia in the sport in which we are able to implement it. He continues Sutlic later, what happened? This is about a particular case that one decision taken collectively with the complete composition of the leadership of this house, by the man who should have written the document by means of a trail of that decision, did not do so without informing anyone in the house. So, the decision made by the Croatian leadership to buy out rights, Sweden simply did not implement it. There, he assessed it on his own and didn't do it. Sutlic says that they were brought, quote, brought in the programming people in error, I was led astray, finished quote. And then he says in the end, I'm finishing our determination of responsibility was aimed at disrespecting a direct decision. Not individual, but joint programming and business management of this house, and it was something that was to be done in eight days. Sign up for one tender. I quote to you director-in-chief of the 2008 HRT, so Schweb gets a warrant to apply for offer C, he doesn't do it at all. That's when he left HRT, a big scandal broke out, and here he is, 12 years later, coming back to HRT. And the epilogue was RTL, which was then a small television player in the field, to get this huge job, and HDZ, and HRT, the Freudian slip, HDZ and HRT, is experiencing fiasco. After 12 years, this RTL dwarf is a more visible information program than HTV. And in the years that followed, Mr. Schwebb's companies have been working neatly with RTL. Who can convince me that he wasn't corrupt? If he hadn't guessed knowingly, RTL was undermining the HTV from which he then went embarrassingly and now you're returning it to us after 12 years. Why are you doing this? And in a situation that his predecessor ended up in custody because of corruption? Did you have anyone clean, here, your man, but clean from the Schweeb? These are publicly available things. He gave a statement to a public notary not sought by the text of the competition. Here's the text of the contest, all black and white. In the case of a Member State of 8, the source of a statement certified by the public notary is requested that the candidate is not in conflict of interest. That the candidate is not in conflict of interest. The candidate is the candidate, the director-in-chief is no longer a candidate, he is the principal director, and he teaches a completely different statement where he does not say, he wrote in Samobor, 1.9.2021, not me standing as candidate Robert Schweb, I am not in conflict of interest, but under point. 1 Generally, there is no conflict of interest, in point. 2, that in the event that I am appointed head director of HRT, I will act in accordance with regulations that prevent conflict of interest, blah blah blah blah blah, and then mention my company RO.BA. Go., Mediahub. He certified you with a public notary that in a conflict of interest, currently as a candidate he promised, if he was elected chief director, he would then give up on those stakes. Among other things, 5 sports channels, direct competition to HRT, and what if, when it becomes the principal director, it will transfer it to its business partner and imagine, it will not happen to please its business partner. So how did he hit RTL 12 years ago? Since he did not do what he was told, what Vanja Sutlic clearly said, we have the record, the management decided, apply for C, he does not implement it on his own, HTV loses rights, gets them RTL. That's why RTL's growing, HDZ's dropping. HDZ, HRT. And that's the kind of person you, in this context of mistrust, the shame of HRT with crime and corruption, push it in this way. First of all, the Supervisory Board cannot even write the text of the competition as it belongs, they forgot to put links or a provision on the Law on Defence, which is respected by teachers from law school, some claiming it to be an illegal competition. So much for your relationship with the defense attorneys. You're the last hole in the play that you've passed the Defense Act. There, you forgot to put it on. This was not also put in the selection for the Theatre Council where the same person, Mr. Chutura, who was at the head of this Supervisory Council, was at the head of the Supervisory Board, and was not entitled to attend these meetings, but was sending a deputy, so the competition for the Theatre Council was cancelled when this was seen as the 40th competition for the principal of primary schools, which is the same term of office. We have instructions from Minister Obuljen from the 18th that takes place, sending institutions from culture that these provisions of the Defence Act must be placed in the contest. They weren't put here. So in the beginning there's a contest suspicious. It shall be accompanied by a Supervisory Board of Candidates who has not made a declaration as requested by the text of the invitation to tender. This is what is done with two illegal sessions, which must then be annulled by the Committee on the Constitution. And in the end, you're pushing the man who handed over the bad paperwork, and he admits himself and signs that he's in conflict of interest, but, well, he won't be if you choose him. If there's a history like this, I read you what he did in 2009, so is it possible there's no one better than Mr. Schwebb? What did he owe you so much? Have you exhausted the human pool? What's next? You obviously didn't learn anything from this verdict. I would order you some kind of procedure, rehabilitate someone, man steals, gets caught and passes, has some courses, rehab, community service, so man regains some kind of moral integrity. But the HDZ obviously doesn't have any help because the same week you get a judgment you do things like this and you push someone like this. To your soul. Last week, we blocked this pay phone and saved HS's reputation because it would have made it even bigger, and we would have to cancel the debate, and it showed that we were right. This time we wash our hands we said everything and we read everything, choose it and carry that political burden... for five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63883	The next debate on behalf of the HSS and RF MP, Katarina Peovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63884	Good afternoon, everyone. As already said most likely, this assembly will elect a man as director of HRT who is in a deep conflict of interest. The scales of this conflict of interest can only be remembered by one episode on HRT that perhaps gives a good picture of how someone may be in a deep conflict of interest on HRT, which is a picture of Nenad Bakic hosting the show "In his film" while being recorded by agency workers of his agency company "Elektus", so at one point he had all the agency employees of HRT and received a practical and promotional show that boasts of him. We know how agency workers work in which business relationships, how they're paid, the wages are very low, they worked just like they used to do, they worked without those travel expenses, no holidays, no Christmas Day, etc. This is about one such picture with far more far-reaching consequences, here only Nenad Bakic got an ad on HRT, and here there will be consequences much more far-reaching. One of the consequences can indeed be that constitutionally annul this decision because this decision is illegal, meaning under the Law on HRT in Art. The 25th candidate who enters the competition must not be in conflict of interest. He's here as a candidate and admitted himself to being in conflict of interest because he handed over the document in which it stands. Of course, the Assembly Media Committee has one huge crime and a real responsibility on its part because it could have stopped it. So the Parliamentary Media Committee is not only here to approve what the HRT Supervisory Board has confirmed, however, the HRT Supervisory Board, the Media Committee confirms, appoints and resolves not only that you did not have to confirm the decision of the Supervisory Board but that you had mechanisms and that you resolved members of the Supervisory Board, by the way, members of the Supervisory Board from the Workers' Orders were exempt. But what's much more serious than the Parliament's Media Committee is tomorrow's vote, and what's most serious is what I would say is the role of Culture Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek. She came to a round table yesterday as I heard from the organizer and self-initiative, and there she explained that it was an impression of opposition that it was illegal actions. It's just an impression of opposition that doesn't have any legal background, but that's not the case, so it really isn't. This is about counter-conclusive action, we have a man who is co-owner of the firm who is her only interest in having HRT fail, so his sports programs are in a better position than the sports program on HRT and as we hear from the workers selling software to HRT, it means double conflict of interest. And this is ultimately what happens, not just on HRT, but everywhere, which is hacking public goods by private interest, and this is about a major conflict of interest. So it's not at all doubtful that a man is in conflict of interest. Therefore, if even this vote is passed tomorrow, the Constitutional Court may reject that decision because this is actually against the law. When we say that Minister Obuljen Koržinek is really responsible then I refer not only to this situation with Robert Schwebb in which she is extremely powerfully pushing that decision, and even I think that some impulses from the HDZ side that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure admit that one of the meetings of the Media Committee was not a regular one, let's just say in terms of some self-critics of HDZ that are not seen very often, but Minister Obuljen Koržinek argues that it is only an impression and that nothing is against the law. But that's not all, so not only does he push this candidate without any logic, but we actually have a situation after so far the director Kazimir Bačić has been removed because of the corruption that he came from Renato Kunić, who is the godfather of Minister Obuljen, and who is next to him by the side of Mislav Stipic, who will confirm all HRT workers as an informal director or one who is the head of HRT, and this comes from colleagues and colleagues of this type of intensive pushing of illegal candidates after two laws that we have received here in the assembly which are both extremely problematic, it is both laws coming from that ministry, which is the Law on Copyright and the Law on Electronic Media. The copyright law that practically deprived the authors of copyright, or that puts copyright aside the one who is actually the contractor of the work, not the one who produces the work. And the Law on Electronic Media, which brings all the legal provisions that do not improve democracy, pluralism, do not allow for the increase of that deficit of democracy that we have all warned about and which the media workers themselves have warned about, therefore, only the press society related to the Council for Electronic Media. Croatian television is publicly well and should be treated as such. First of all, that Croatian television would be public good and avoid such a situation, and we have a good message in this present situation. So the workers have chosen one candidate, one candidate therefore comes from the radio Dario Špelic, but that candidate had no chance in that battle because it does not belong to any interesting circles. Anyone from HRT could have been selected. Yesterday, Minister Obuljen told us that anyone who wasn't from HRT would be in conflict of interest. Of course, that's not true, and other than how it's possible on that HRT where there are so many good journalists that nobody's qualified to run and go through that HRT competition. I seriously doubt that. So the man on the radio was one of those, these people who ran and I say he didn't have a chance. He's usually a man who's on the board of directors and who, by the way, made an exception and because he was a candidate, but I suppose he wasn't a candidate to react to this kind of illegal conduct in the election procedure. Of course, someone could have been found who wouldn't have fallen into the Constitutional Court when it was elected, but it didn't want to. Yes, I conclude Misho Kovac would best describe this situation when he was visiting the HRT and said you didn't have a show here I think ruling doesn't have a show. It's quite clear, so you should even let them go to the end of this because it's quite clear that it's an illegal choice to make and let them eat on the crime scene. That's what I would say one of the best satirical descriptions of the HDZ problem if they didn't have a show, and the prime minister when his interview was published for Christmas in July is perhaps another moment that I would like to send as some congratulations to HDZ in this election because, as Viktor Ivancic said, it is necessary for Andrej Plenkovic to be reborn every day. There, it is also born in these reruns in which they do not need to be current, it is important to show always one and the same, everyday birth of HDZ. And lastly, I would only say that no matter who is elected director of HRT that I invite him, as journalists and trade unions have called on him to make his first move, and thus perhaps to amnesty for this procedure, means to dismiss all charges against journalists. It's unacceptable how many lawsuits are filed against journalists, it's unacceptable that journalists turn out to be the biggest culprits, so not those who illegally become directors, but those who do their job, so someone doesn't like it, and someone who doesn't like it, those people are being sued, so I'm calling for HDZ and their candidate to be washed up in some way to throw away all those lawsuits against journalists. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63885	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63886	Dear, fundamental debates on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the head director of HRT have been exhausted by the presentation of legal and politically indisputable arguments why Mr Schveb should not be appointed as a candidate of the Minister of Culture and Media. It is expected that our arguments were not accepted because this decision was taken on Runjanin Street No. 2, then approved in a higher place in St. Mark number 2 even before the opening of the contest for the selection of the principal director. This means that the entire election process was only a farce of a water country or a show with a grotesque feature in which other candidates were intended to play the role of statisticians and naturtics. More specifically, the whole process including decision-making on the board, today's debate and tomorrow's vote marks only as a ceremony of hand-to-handling or hirotonisation of the pre-elected candidate. We repeat the notor facts already expressed in the Croatian Parliament and in the public, the selection process of the Croatian Chief Director of HRT has been contaminated since the very beginning, more precisely than the call for tenders by the Supervisory Board. The first supervisory board called for an illegal tender without a link to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers on which there can be no doubt. Here we have one bizarreness, namely the chairman of the Supervisory Board at the same time was also a member of the HNK theatre council in Zagreb, and in this capacity essentially the choice of indents voted in favour of cancelling the competition because there was no link to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. The same person later, as chairman of the Supervisory Board in the event of this competition, decided that the link was not needed although both public institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia are subject to the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Only this evidence in court is sufficient to cancel the competition. The second inconclusive fact, Mr. Schwebb's candidate, on which we will speak, embodyed the concept and institute of conflict of interest and in its most orderly elemental meaning. This is also evident from his lack of résumés which suggests that since the mid-1990s in the continuous co-ownership of the company and the companies operating with HRT here, there has been something unmarked, that the candidate for the head director of HRT in his résumé knowingly left out the fact almost seven years of employment on that same HRT with a subsequent bizarre and sub-intelligent explanation at the session of the Assembly board that he was limited to the number of letters in the application form, so he has just decided to leave out that important fact which, in normal circumstances, would further qualify him, has already honored us various confirmations of business successes during his career. This is further about the candidate who, in 2007, seemed to have resigned, i.e. He was relieved of his duties as director of Croatian television due to unmistakably established personal responsibility for the loss of the right to transfer matches of the World Handball Championship, which was held right in Croatia, which gave HRT significant reputation damage, the rights received naturally competitive commercial television with which the candidate, of course, had later reached a business relationship. Only that fact suggests that it is a matter of good education, at least to me, never to apply for a competition for the head director of HRT, which includes any business relationship with HRT. Not only that, several years later, Mr. Schweb was rewarded by the then SDP-HNS Kukuriku commissioner at the head of HRT's evil memory Mr. Radmina's luxuriant consulting contract of 500 or more thousand kuna for consulting on so-called. the restructuring of HRT, whose achievements we see even today when this strategic national house is transformed into a mediocre ruin. Finally, what we didn't even know until the other day, Mr. Schweba's company has a concession on 5 sports programs that are direct competition of course to the Croatian sports program. This is also the reason why the candidate could not meet the requirement in the competition that he was not in conflict of interest but provided us with a conditional statement that he gave an honorable pioneer word that he would not be in conflict of interest when we chose him as chief director. So this isn't about so-called. with the potential conflict of interest, it is one legal file introduced in practice by the then director of Mrs. Oreshkovic, so it's not about the so-called. The potential conflict of interest used in 2016 as an ideological political staff for the court coup and the destruction of the then Croatian government and the political decapitation of Mr Tomislav Karamark from Croatian politics from the position of HDZ president, this is about the ongoing conflict of interest, and the conflict of interest... Which is why the HRT Supervisory Board should not have accepted his candidacy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, anything further would be a renunciation. Let's stop this grotesque, withdraw the motion for a decision, invite the thorns from the HRT Supervisory Board to discuss a new competition, the wolf will be full, and the HRT sheep will continue to be numbered. Gentlemen of the HDZ, stop reviving and applying Joseph Broz Tito's highest legal authority's record that the law should not be held drunk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63887	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63888	Thank you. Comrade Hasanbegovic, you have injured an article. In 238, you have personally offended me and called me even though you have actually managed to prove in your own way why this competition should be annulled. As far as Tomislav Karamark is concerned, I also argue responsibly from this position that I have today been one of both professional and legal and morally correct decisions, and the defeat of this country and the defeat of most of you sitting there is that today is legal corruption and that today, even after a proven corrupt crime, there is no political responsibility as Karamarko had because of the potential conflict of interest then, but it is not my responsibility, it is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63889	This was your replica. You're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63890	Thank you very much. The injury of several articles, the injury of several articles of the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Oreshkovic, you have introduced the practice of so-called The potential conflict of interest, then you acted as an instrument of political executioners of various elements of the deep state and what I can congratulate you on, you then invested in your political career and everything you did then paid off you are also sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63891	And a reminder to you, for you have answered the reply. Ma'am. Oreshkovic, I must warn you that this would be your third warning and that means taking away the word until the end of the debate on this point, so. You won't. Your third warning would be if you applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Give it up. Okay, thank you. Next is a debate on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club, respected Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63892	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the selection of the director of HRT has been expanded in recent days, and it is an opportunity to look back on the work of HRT itself with which none of us are very pleased and it has been seen in recent days. Public service has become a private interest polygon, its own production in the interest of the Croatian public is reduced to a minimum, and we see that Croatian television can no longer keep up with private houses or in ensuring the right to transfer matches of Croatian team or competitions in which Croatian clubs play. The question is, how much and who needs such a HRT because citizens don't get for the amount of tv fees anything they don't already offer commercial TV homes, but they get less. The whole time of the devastation of the public service, we have a latent conflict of different factions on Prisavlje, and the changes are happening in that people's "Snake Kurt to ride Murt". Therefore, I must once again point out what my predecessors have said, Croatian sovereigns do not trust the candidate proposed by the ruling majority and we will not support it. We believe that this government has been involved in the degradation of HRT as well as the previous ones, and I will remind you once again that the SDP government has just passed the current HRT Act electing the director. As we cannot support the current Public Service Information Programme under the North Korean model of dumping taxpayers' money on projects of dubious quality and media relevance, ineffectiveness and poor governance, we also cannot support the same practices on the other side of the political spectrum. The selection of HRT directors takes place in circumstances where the former director was in custody, we read in the media that he just got out of custody today and is returning to HRT because he was on unpaid leave and under these circumstances, and that choice was under special public increase. Public debate has been launched as much as public service, and as it serves the ruling and therefore the meetings of the Committee on Information, Information and Media were also under special increase. We are amazed by the fact that these same sessions were conducted in a way that was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which confirmed that the meetings were led, quote "slamve". All of this has led to the escalation of tensions that have ended in scenes completely out of the ordinary, and I dare say unsuitable for HS. To look for the culprit for what happened last week is not too much purpose, but I would like to stress on this occasion several facts that point to the unscrupulous behavior of part of the participants of these events. One of the arguments in addition to the non-respect of the Rules of Procedure was that the competition for the director of HRT was not in line with the Law on Croatian Defence. A few months ago, the appointment of a member of the HERA administration in the candidate's biographies was not specified whether any of the candidates had defence status, although among them was Domagoj Mikulic, who met all the conditions, but had defence status. In addition, the Energy Regulatory Act explicitly states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is required at least 30 days before the end of the term of office of a member of the Governing Council to propose to the HS that the member of the Governing Council be relieved of the mandate and deliver a reasoned list of candidates. It has been five and a half months, so Ms. Sonja Tomasic Skevin's mandate expired last year on 15.11. 2021. Well, there's no proper procedure, and five and a half months have been late. I said the same thing on the Committee on Economy, and I was agreed by the opposition members of the board, and that's where it all ended. There was no protest, no reciting Dante in Italian, no singing and no playing for this pay phone, and then the procedure wasn't important and it shouldn't have been defended. I have to wonder why that is, is HERA less important than HRT? I don't think so, because HERA is exactly the institution that determines the price of electricity and gas. So I think you'll all agree that it's extremely important for our citizens as well as for entrepreneurs and the economy as a whole. What, then, is the situation more important to HRT than the situation I'm referring to? Perhaps the reason was a little clumsy and inconspicuous for his colleague Matula at the meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media when he said we could have his candidate and support Mr. Spelic. They probably didn't have their candidate for the Hera Administrative Council, and Mr. Mikulić is the Croatian defender how much memory I serve for gentlemen and colleagues from Wehrvatski zastava. So why fight for them and stand up for them? It was similar when none of the women's rights fighters appeared when Kresimir Macan on the same HRT, Karolin Vidovic, Kristo, called the character. Where were the B.a.B.e. then, rescue me and similar organizations? Selective application and take-up only for those cases where certain policy options will benefit is poor and harmful. The attack on the institutions and scenes in the assembly that we normally see on the streets is not a road to an orderly society, but a chaos that we are witnessing right now in the City of Zagreb. We all know that our institutions are nowhere near what our society should be called organized society. But it's not enough to bring something down without any idea as far away as possible. The destruction of institutions without visions and solutions is the way to anarchy, chaos and powerlessness. It's not our way today or the future. We need to repair the institutions, work on improving them to serve citizens and society as a whole. It's a process we need, not a burned country that this collapse leaves behind. Selective application of the law and selective struggle for justice from case to case leads us to clientelism, corruption and nepotism. I therefore also call on opposition colleagues to give good consideration to some new initiatives which they advocate and whether they are just helpers in achieving someone's intention or fighters for justice and honesty. Croatian sovereigns will vote against Mr. Schwebb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63893	Next is a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63894	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, it may not be even time for us to discuss any more of the choices ahead of us. tomorrow's vote because anyway, the ruling majority will choose the same person as those before, so those who come from certain ones and I'll say structure, I won't say substructure where that conflict of interest is, customerism is actually good morning, and let's say halftime. I would talk more about HRT as a public communication infrastructure, so as a Croatian public good which perhaps even some of you here do not insult anyone, do not perceive, means HRT as a public communication infrastructure. HRT has lost the most important provision to which the law actually obliges them, which is to serve the public interest. The first TV program that is probably still the most visible is transformed into a series of fun mosaic content often produced in external production or co-production and then we ask ourselves whether there are no more people on HRT who can make good information, research and quality content that would serve HRT as a public communication infrastructure as a public good. He probably has people, but they've been replaced, maybe they've been removed into less-than-sighted terms, and they've been deprived of the right to do what they know best, and that's a journalist's job. Perhaps instead of this radical election, HRT should be observed more constructively in terms of its own production instead of imports, educational education services instead of propaganda or actually journalism instead of PR. As the program is done and censored, and these days we follow on social networks, we follow in HND and press union publications, e.g. that HRT not only to all of them, so for example HRT has not yet dropped the complaint against the president of the HND branch Sanja Pavić as she imagines in one of her statements she wrote that there is censorship there. And the minister says that censorship is a crime and must be proven in court. In the past decades and decades and years as well as in these days, people have left HRT because they can probably no longer endure this.../incomprehensible/... pressure and conflict. All of these staffholders of the Croatian political scene or all of the owners of the mandate of the political and media team can agree that HRT should be represented equally, I stress all political options. But that's where we all stop, and all the initiatives instead of promoting themselves, and that all our political rivals are unrelated to what options they come from, just don't work out in the mud, and we should know what we expect from HRT in the coordinates of media, cultural and educational policies, and then we should choose the administration that can achieve it. And we as a political community, so all the factors that work in the Croatian Parliament repeat, and we, repeat these good practices, not repeat mistakes. So, what we're doing, now to make a little joke, we always delegate to an older man both tasks to determine instead of us what HRT needs to do and then from, he answers the question of how it should be done. So he's probably asked what the goals of HRT are instead of asking him how you're going to do those goals if you're the director. And on both questions we've been getting a last-year answer for nothing or zero. In addition, there is actually no real independent regulatory body in Croatia that can oversee the work of HRT and implement the Law on HRT. We know that the Agency for Electronic Media is under the supervision of the political majority, and the programme council is also under the supervision or hands of the political majority without any authority and their advice is therefore, in accordance with all acts, absolutely non-binding. So the director and editors of HRT can generally do absolutely anything they want. So it can happen that the editor of the program can for years, the magazine of the interior policy Labyrinth, which is such a good magazine that is held on a 4th program that is poorly viewed, and in the context of the time or the impacting term that Croatian talk are mostly foreign production shows, and the documentary programme that was excellent of HRT, the pride of HRT today is actually almost invisible and quite interesting at the same time when young Croatian documentists and documentists win awards at prestigious and renowned world festivals. So it's hard to find in a HRT programme today that meets the requirements, I'll repeat again, public communication infrastructures. They get over the shows where you advertise everything and everything. The data published by one portal not to advertise it, a few days ago at the top of the payoff, did you notice who it was? HRT, therefore, is directly paid from the budget to HRT from the beginning of the Master's Master's Office and its term of office 95 million kuna plus a subscription amounting to over a billion kuna, the state further makes that 95 million kuna. Well, of course I have to express my gratitude to such donors and donations. On the other hand, until the European level is formed teams that build public radio defences as a public goods as important, and I will say what the link between democratic society is visible that HRT and HRT have no consciousness or visions of how in the new time, because we all live in some new time to preserve this important cultural and media institution. Look, even on the tech plan, things are getting worse, you're sitting in a central journal studio, and you hear some rain coming out there already is a storm. One of the directors is now no longer in custody, and the others who... are doing it either in this current fall scheme have not exactly shown that they know what public communications infrastructure is or national wealth, and believe me, HRT is the national wealth that it represents. About the former leaders, so there's still a lot of interesting personnel, I'm going to say interesting personnel and software policy, and unfortunately for us, we've seen that they've been carrying out a little of that criminal business-interest policy. Like what? During the time of former director Bačić from HRT, Hrvoje Zovko, president of the HND, was fired because he was committed against censorship, and he resented being resented that he had been elected president of the HND, and the HRT stressed that he had violated the reputation of the HRT institution by his public appearances. So then he got back to work, so he got fired again, etc., etc. And in the end, where is he? He's still the president of HND. Then, at the time of Bacic's term of office for harassment, Mislav Stipic, director of the Business Unit, but Bacic sided with him, so there were some investigations, so union commissioners Maja Sever and HND president Sanja Pavić sought to establish an independent commission that would investigate the case, yet nothing. Then at the time of former director Bačić, HRT failed to adopt a work programme because they could not agree with each other, the Supervisory Board, the programme council, so the programme council twice adopted a negative opinion so the Supervisory Board did not adopt a work programme. So let's say the last piece of information in the report on the work of the Croatian Supervisory Board for 2019. which is referred to the HS there is a recommendation to the Director-General that, in the following year, before the debate on the financial plan of the debate and the work programme which must follow the financial plan. But that's not what we're talking about. The future director, who will be voted by the ruling majority tomorrow, so reformers as well as reformers, we are discussing as something more or less today, but if he judges the way in which a single Croatian political party who has been accused of corruption and their radiotelevision regardless of the leading man to be elected, then this modus operandi will remain exactly the same with the course of rape that has been happening all this time and the attempt to put the head of the HRT director in the obvious conflict of interest clearly tells us about how institutions operate in Croatia, therefore not only the HRT but all institutions. And in conclusion, maybe it's time to talk about what HRT is really for, whether it's an informative television or just enough to show us some news from culture and movies because it's missing us from informing us about important topics anyway, I guess it doesn't mind the master's master. The SDP will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63895	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I estimate that a colleague of Hajdash Doncic has been injured by an article. The 1st century is because he didn't say which portal it was. Namely, since the Committee for Conflict of Interest has been shelled out by the Article. 5. We no longer need to act transparently, etc. So he could have said freely that it was a portal index without injureing the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63897	You're getting a warning. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63898	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a man living in the village who, if he wanted to point out something important, then he starts his discussion the following way, ow, ow, ow. I could relate to him and to what has been said here today, but not just today, this is the end of the whole story and it is good that this is the case, it is practically since July of the month when Kazimir Bačić was arrested, and the Supervisory Board, or HS, appointed the acting officer who is still performing the duty. Today we heard a lot from HRT as about something that should be best in Croatia, the strongest of all other TVs. Right, HRT is a public service that pays all citizens by paying a tv fee and I think it's fair that those citizens get something, too. I am sorry that none of the predecessors mentioned any Croatian radio, Croatian radio is part of an institution called Croatian Radio Television. On the radio are wonderful people, editors, journalists who can reach the listeners much faster than TV, and we may get more information from the radio than we can get on HRT itself. None of my predecessors here have said anything about an injustice that lasts but, so let's be honest, on HRT maybe more than 12, 13 years, which is that essentially, the basic coefficients on HRT haven't changed since 2004 have been the last harmonised coefficients on HRT. No one talked about how much out of the billion and 320 million kunas are participating the salaries of HRT employees who have 2800, comparing other European public services. I'll tell you. 37.7% of employees' salaries on HRT, Slovenia participates 61%, Spain 60%. And you know where I got all those numbers from? From the candidate's work program that we should choose as head director of HRT. It's not my exposé, it's in his plan and program for the next five years. This is where you tried to bring down Mr. Natalija Martincevic, president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media in the first five minutes, and as a member of the Media Committee, Natalia did the job according to what was prescribed by the HRT Act, acknowledging that there was a procedural error at the session held on 12th and at the session held on 13 October and at the recommendation of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, we repeated the session, most of the 13 candidates offered, accepted the candidate Mr. Wess. So, I don't think there was anything here that was controversial. It happened, we admitted that mistake, and I think it's something that's good. By listening to these candidates, so they are calling for some kind of commissioner's directive that it's some sort of decree, that the great leader said who must be the director of HRT, I will remind them when the director of HRT was given a decree and when the democratic bang of the election of directors, the head director of Croatian television collapsed here in HS? In 2012, when a law was removed without a public debate under which HS, by which the Programme Council elects the Director-General and passed the law to elect most members of the Media Committee of the HRT, so Mr. Radman, whom we will long, long, not me, I do not work on HRT, but HRT employees will long, long remember him. Therefore, whether we wish well for HRT, and you heard it yesterday from Minister Obuljen and her intensity is to restore the law that existed until 2012, which is that HS chooses the Programme Council, and the Programme Council is elected by the Director-General on the basis of the candidate's programme. I don't personally know Mr. Schwebb, I've never seen him before until the man came to the interview we had with all the candidates, and then with Mr. Schwebb, but I read his program several times and I read the programs of the other 13 right-wing candidates. In these programs there was really everything, of all things, of having to cancel the TV subscription, that there should be no marketing on HRT, that the CEO must cut the salary because it is the main problem that HRT does not work. I've found everything in this program that I think should be of interest to you. Comparing with other public services in the EU. So here you can read the data that clearly indicates what kind of transformation HRT needs. This man in his Programme says that out of the 2750 employees, most of them working on HRT, the structure is too old, no longer handled with new technologies, new techniques, but that man doesn't say he's going to fire them. He's talking about introducing an institute to educate all HRT employees so they can give maximum. He says what he will do with the drama program, says what he will do with the music program and above all, says what he will do with the HRT archive. Let's not play crazy, today television and television five years ago have almost absolutely nothing in common. Today, large platforms have taken over absolutely this part of the Croatian media ether under the law on HRT is not easy to operate under such conditions. Commercial televisions are carefree, they mainly earn their revenues from marketing, while HRT has a programme obligation to meet under the HRT Act and under the contract it signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So let's not easily understand the choice of director of HRT two more things, I don't have much time to say something in an individual debate, and this is the most mentioned conflict of interest here, Mr. Schwebb. He filed a statement that he had certified with the public notary that was asked of the candidates, so far he is the only candidate he is not yet elected head director of the HRT and so much for that visibility that could possibly happen. And one more thing I have to warn you about, and yesterday I'm here on a round table that's been set up in the Small Council of this Reverend House is that this is where Mr. Schwebb gets his concession. He doesn't have any concessions on sports channels, he has approvals, the approvals are something quite different from concessions. Approvings can get any TV, but it does not mean that they will be consumed unless they conclude a contract with possibly some organiser of some events. So, the Council for Electronic Media gives approval, Mr. Schwebb has such five approvals that by the way he never used, I don't say it as his lawyer to get along but I'm saying it as a man who gave it a little effort to question people who know a lot more than I do so he can even say something here. Therefore, in addition to what the esteemed board president said, with the apology that the committee had sinned at its two sessions, the injustice was corrected. Yesterday was a legitimate and legal session of the board, proposed by HDZ candidate and coalition partners, which is Mr. Schwebb, whom I see as the majority in HS, and so the law says Most choose the Director-General then [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We support Mr. Schwebb. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63899	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS of the Honored Representatives Oreshković and Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63900	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. Pay attention to how the chairman warned me that I would get a warning when I broke my rules of procedure without even knowing what I was going to say before, even though what the second parliamentary representative was saying was a pure crime of slander. This shows that the Rules of Procedure are being misused here in order to obstruct the work of the opposition, not because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure establish some meaningful rules of order. And this is the perfect example of what HS has become, which is what the Republic of Croatia has become under HDZ rule. However, not to spend precious minutes, given that Natalija Martincevic had a very short explanation of the reason for the appointment of Šveb, it is clear that there is no other explanation here than that it is the will of the HDZ, so I will make this debate a matter of what the real essence of these reasons is. So this is all kidnapping syndrome where the corrupt political party is in power by abuse of position and rape of procedure imposes its corrupt will. In this example, Andrej Plenkovic shows what kind of state we created and whose force it serves. If the laws and legal procedures are such that the meaning of public tenders is turned into a mockery, a farce and a play, and the power of all the choices has and implements the party is totally whatever the party is called and whether it is red or blue. We continue to have a party state after the creation of an independent and independent Croatian state. In those 30 years, the state has never been as party to us, and the government is as disgusting as this one is now. With the ideology or program of a party, we can get along or disagree. In the last state, we were disturbed by the social property and the lack of political and other freedoms and let go now of what is written in our present Constitution, see what our reality is and what our practice is. Whose, since the conversion and privatisation, has become the property that was once ours? Well, it became the prey of HDZ's constituents, and the way it became is a legalized robbery. The suspicions of corruption and crime of generations and generations of HDZ dignitaries have never been investigated or will ever be and every stage of our new state-run political history has its own robbery. The methods may change a little bit, but their outcome is always the same, and during all this time it is the same as how this corrupt reality of HDZ cannot be seen by HRT. And as for these political freedoms and democracy, we have come to the conclusion that the opposition has no other way than to physically build a block around this assembly pay phone to prove that the ruling rules have been broken. Freedom of opinion has become overrated and unnecessary because we have Andrej Plenkovic here to think for all of us and to tell us what we can even think. It's dedicated to minutes and minutes of HRT reporting. And when the real purpose of the existence of a political party, one party turns into a pure kidnapping when the method of implementation of that abduction becomes the only recognizable modus operandi, then such power ceases to be democratic, it is in its own way anti-constitutional. HDZ's power is that way. The corruption affair over which HDZ has been legally condemned is no exception nor an isolated case, the only exception is that despite all that has been happening so far, despite all the affairs, there is still only one verdict. Well, since it is already reliable that we can conclude that despite the newly elected president of the Supreme Court, the new ruling against HDZ will not be issued so soon, the right verdict, the only one that really means some kind of punishment should be issued by the citizens. The next election we're going to go out to should be the last one the HDZ will be able to steal again. There is no choice or election results without marketing, and there is still no such marketing as the party in power can give its state-run TV house, so it is crucial for Andrej Plenkovic to have his own man at the head of HRT. The former HRT chief director ended up in custody because he now carried 50,000 euros in bribes to the late HDZ coalition and to the corruption partner. The public tender, the selection procedure by which he was elected to this function was the same then as it is today. And it is quite clear what kind of new CEO HDZ needs, all HDZ expects from the new CEO is to be a little bit more careful with the bags, and in everything else continues with the so far-studden practice by which the real state and corruption nature of this government is not shown or shown in night terms, such as that of the Labyrinth show in which the statement on the corrupt actions of the HDZ official in the Kutinian “Eko Moslavina” was given by Adrian Cvrtila. The show was broadcast at four in the morning. That's the censorship, that's our public service's disease syndrome. The fact is that HDZ's force is stronger shows this further insistence on selecting the person for whom the entire opposition has been united to send a message that the choice is not good. By imposing that this point is discussed today on the day when the Assembly does not normally hold its meetings and that this point is voted on tomorrow on the day when it is not normally voted in the assembly, Andrej Plenkovic wishes to show that he will also conduct his will on HRT after that. Despite all his words of demeaning and message, I don't think he's shown that he's superior to the opposition. The opposition here no longer has any business or any other legal mechanisms to oppose further self-will in the conduct of this appointment, but the opposition has managed to show with dignity that Andrej Plenkovic is fit to rule by force. By coming down for this pay phone on Thursday, the opposition indicated what could happen if this haughtiness of force and institutional violence continues to grow, and the fact is that it is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63901	Let me tell my colleagues here from HDZ who told us, here he is now, that we understand easily the choice of director of HRT. Therefore, we do not take lightly the choice of the director of HRT precisely because HRT as a public service to its timely, independent, transparent and I will say today at the time of the news faca and all sorts of pseudo-science facts, scientifically justified information should be the most powerful weapon in the fight against corruption. So we want HRT as a strong public service because it is a guarantee and a strong democratic society. In order to have active builders who participate in the process in society, they must be informed, get full information so that they can make their own conclusions and make the right decisions. But here's the person most of us are proposing to be the new director, in fact, is the person of continuity, not the change that HRT needs. So for weeks, you've already known who the candidate of the majority or the personal candidate of the culture and the media minister is, other candidates have applied for, as many as 13, but they simply didn't stand a chance. We heard yesterday on the board from Mrs. Klancir that during the interview with the candidates she asked the candidates, so here's a good reason why you applied as candidates when for weeks now the stories of who will finally be elected, who will be the future director of HRT. A few answered that question, so because we think the time has come to change, to come and be different. However, here is HDZ and the election of HRT directors shows how it intends to manage the entire state and that corruption is indeed in the foundations of that party and the Supreme Court's ruling on corruption is not random. One of the directors ended up in Remetitz for corruption, and this morning he went outside, so instead of going from college to work, he says from Remetinco to work, and he was there for carrying a bag of money to Milan Bandic. We are now being served by another who is deeply embedded in a conflict of interest with HRT because his companies are doing millions of jobs with HRT today. So HDZ simply can't escape corruption, not that it can't, and it doesn't, because if there was no corruption, the entire HDZ would collapse. So here's a question I've asked before, which is why Andrej Plenkovic so insists on the appointment of Mr. Schwebb despite numerous visible shortcomings, numerous associations of experts who have responded, journalists, MPs and MPs here, so whether this appointment will, at all costs, return this appointment to the future director of HRT by keeping HRT's public service and staying a praise service for Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63902	Next is the debate between the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representatives Bencic and Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63903	Thank you. There is no censorship in Croatian media, and media justice is not a threat, January 15, 2019. That's what the Minister of Culture, Oblished Koržinek, said. At that moment, and at this moment there were 35 Croatian lawsuits against their own journalists or journalists of other media houses or other media. The total value of these lawsuits is over two million kunas, all due to damage to reputation and honor. How accurate is the statement by the minister's statement and the fact that the HND president received a 250,000 kuna suit from HRT, which, for his injury, re-emerges and honors, after speaking publicly about the existence of censorship on HRT. With the powerless verdict of the municipal court in Zagreb, it was confirmed that the president of the HND was rightly speaking about censorship because HRT did not receive the suit. On Media Freedom Day, on Media Freedom Day, HRT banned the meeting of the President of the Journalists' Union at HRT, on the same HRT. The editor of the information and media service in one conversation said, the attitude of the house, the attitude of the house, is that the HND, therefore, Croatian news society, is being followed as, not as an association, says, like, follow the birds' association. That's what the editor of the information-media service said. The same editor at HRT said there's no censorship on HRT, but it's an editorial policy. It's the HRT today, 2021, that's the HRT that's like that because for 25 years it's managed exclusively from this hill or that hill. Because no political option so far has been prepared to say, and at least HDZ won't be anyone else's. The Secretary-General of the European Federation of Journalists said in a recent interview that public broadcasting is suing journalists and the media, including its journalists. Croatia is in this, too, says, unfortunately, Europe's champion. And it points to another bizarre fact, and that bizarre fact is something that we're all aware of, and we're aware that this selection of the new director is happening in that very shadow, and that bizarre fact is that the former CEO has been in custody for months because of his suspicion of corruption and that he's still an employee of the house, which has been set aside today by his arrival to.../incomprehensible/... his place of employment that he has the right to return to according to the laws. What laws? The laws of HDZ. At the same time, Hrvoje Zovko was immediately fired, immediately fired when he was accused on HRT of things he later proved not to be allowed to get fired, he proved it in court. However, a person, a former director who is accused of the crime of trafficking, and a criminal act that we could already call colloquially today, which is your crime when carrying tens of thousands of euros in bags, or in the case of HDZ, tens of millions of kuna. So, in this entire atmosphere that we have around HRT, in the awareness of all of us that HRT and quality and staff and institutionally failed precisely because of the influence of politics on this same HRT, you continue to insist on naming a person who is already already, already burdened by conflict of interest, and going to the management position, does not go to any other position, goes to the management position where he makes business decisions on his own. And what's really my question here is why we consciously keep quiet that he couldn't make a statement about the lack of conflict of interest, which is required under the Law on HRT at that point, that he wasn't in conflict of interest at that point, it clearly states in the Law. But even if you close your eyes, why are you creating yourself a position in which we, as an opposition, will have to, in a few months, when this potential conflict of interest is realized, seek the resignation of the Minister of Culture because we know that this is not even a candidate for the entire HDZ. We all know that this is the candidate of the Minister of Culture, and as of today, she takes responsibility for everything that is going to happen and we are going to call her on that responsibility, unfortunately very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63904	Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. Candidate Dario Špelic is undoubtedly the most qualified and competent candidate for the position of head director in this competition. This is evident from his written programme and it was too obvious to all those present at his oral presentation of the programme, as well as the reasons for the candidacy in this socially important place, i.e. the position. Dario Spelic was a candidate who could and should have restored the dignity of HRT journalists and editors. First of all, thanks to more than 2 decades of his esteemed, recognised work on Croatian Radio as a great journalist and an esteemed, respected, respected editor. A colleague Ivanovic says we made a mistake and corrected it. No, you did the procedure, you raped, you waged violence, and we were forced here to resist it. That's true. But the mistake you made with Mr. Schwebb's election, it's much, much bigger and far-reaching. And now I'm going to remind you because about his conflict of interest, about his firm MediaHUB who was doing research on what it should do on HRT and how to improve and imagine you, after all, have of course concluded that the only thing that can be solved there is his second firm, RO.BA. GO, THAT THEY'RE THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN HELP HRT IN MILLION ORDERS. That's how it was. Okay. It's, uh, it's so much about conflict of interest. But people forget that something much more drastic was done by Mr. Schwebb in '08. when he came to the position of the director of television, that he then brought Hlorka Novak Srzic, who was currently cutting off all the positions of editors, permanently mutilated the dignity of Croatian journalists. Permanently. And brought down, in every sense, the pro-provost profession on HRT to such a bottom that today is unfortunately only competing again with this programme of Katarina Perisha Chakarun. And do you really believe that Mr. Schwebb, when he returns, will raise the quality of the program without talking about the real program? Yeah, the man is obviously an engineer in that sense, working outside, technical engineering. And here Mr. Spelic has shown that he fully understands and that he feels that he is accepted, that he is appreciated and that he can direct HRT in the direction in which only I can fix a deeply impaired interpersonal relationship and that the HRT programme becomes what must be, and that is, first of all, creativity. It means creativity, it means artistic, dramatic, documentary program as it has, but it's not given the right place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63905	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63906	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Like others, with longer mandates in this House, so I have held many speeches from this pay phone, in defense of the public service of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. The vast majority of these speeches were spoken on the basis of the belief that the defense was necessary and that it was necessarily possible. Or necessarily necessary and realistically possible. Today, I speak with confidence that it is necessary, but with doubts about it, not only is it realistically possible, but it is doubtful that it is even possible. Why? I'm not talking about censorship. It is at this point, given the situation in HRT, as I know it, not less important, but the thing that is not the first row, but because HRT as a public service is failing. And it doesn't fail because there's no financial assumption for his work, as we've heard, it does. In abundance. It fails because with this money, not from today and not from yesterday and not from this decade, but from the past decades and not from a series of directors, regardless of the policy, the following is that what the public service of Croatian Radio and Television could produce and produce for decades from its establishment, film programme, documentary programme, educational programme, scientific programme, entertainment program and information program, it no longer produces. The minimum of the film program, the educational programme is almost gone, the scientific programme is almost gone, the documentary programme, we heard, how it is going and how it can be qualified, and then we are left to have representatives here in HS, the Assembly who is the founder and who is taking care and choosing the key bodies of the director, the Program Council, that we are not really lucky with HRT, as HRT has no luck with us. And I'm not just saying that because of my colleagues in the ruling coalitions, I speak equally for my colleagues in the opposition. So for me and the SDSS Club, the key question is how to reverse this moment. How do you turn the money provided under the law not to be sucked out, and the TV goes down? This debate on candidates and the director who was also the one we should choose would not be burdened at all by this question, if the external production was not the place where it was generated, on the one hand, by the collapse of HRT, and on the other hand, what is called illicit actions in the treatment of public finances and privileged positions that people on HRT have. No, you wouldn't. Now, we're discussing the director, we've been discussing both the ex and we've given him confidence, but after he's finished how he ended up and where he ended up, this club and I can't trust him like that anymore. No one. I think that should be true for everyone. For every club and every club in this house. The minimum awareness of a public service called HRT. Should I let that collapse end in ruin? I still believe that I shouldn't, although I am far from the belief that I had in my earlier years and when I wanted to get off the left hand side of the subscription and when I wanted to disable the ad and put that advertising only has commercial television, so, you know, it's not bad that there's someone in the Parliament who has a long memory. Maybe for whoever has a long memory isn't the best, but for the Parliament and for the debate on things, and sometimes it's good. I remember a live advocacy to cancel the subscription. So that maybe you wouldn't be Yetel like he says today. Either, or, to make it impossible for the public service to have a share in advertising by various lobbyist means. Or how to justify it? How to justify subscription, how to justify participation in advertising? Well, a better program, a more complete program. A more complete production, not like this, and reduced to an information program that we're going to argue about whether there's censorship or no censorship. And wait for your chance and then threaten, like some colleagues who came from the opposition to power, started threatening the press, now our moment has come, now you will see how it will be. I'm not just talking about HDZ doing it in its own time. I also speak to those who sit here today as new faces. Who have done the same, and today they teach moral lessons about it. There's been a lot of names here today, and I won't mention them. And that's what I'm saying, the service should be a cause, if it isn't, that we try to agree on this. Which way? I still believe it is possible to modernise, professionalise, and not the best artist, but to create, do HRT as fellow Matula said, creative institution. If he can't produce a film, documentary, educational, scientific, entertainment and information program, he can take the measure that Danish television has, such as the countries in Europe have similar sizes, like us and who keep their national public service. Create today means to create new television in new media circumstances. Finally, the SDSS Club has not made a decision on how to vote on this matter. He'll bring it in when he hears the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63907	Time. Following individual debates, the first respected Nino Rasdic is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63908	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. A fellow Arsen Bauk in one situation with such a scale and a difficult moral decision by MPs of Hrebak played handsomely with a single saying and said that he could not be honest and bold at the same time. Here, I really look forward to this session at the SDSS Club, as to whether indeed Mr. Pupovac and two other MPs from that club will vote against or not to vote on this proposal tomorrow, where a new director is offered to us by a person who is in a difficult conflict of interest, who she admits herself, certified by a public notary. It can't be fair, criticise the state of public service, and then vote for a candidate like this. And that should be clear. You'll take responsibility for what you voted for tomorrow. You will take over and it will be written down who voted, just as it was written who voted for the Law on Electronic Media, which introduces the concept of gender identity in the 4 articles. That's what's left of it, so maybe your kid or your grandchild will ask why my parents did it. So don't touch us and salt our brains, like Mr. Pupovec. You have to do this, you'll do it. I'm just wondering if it's possible that you didn't have your own man who was less obvious in the conflict of interest and who was less wrong about HRT than Mr. Schwebb. I can repeat things again, I can add others, it's so much, if you need 5 reasons why he's in conflict of interest, sport 1, sport 2, sport 3, sport 4, sport 5. He will give up his ownership rights in two companies that have these channels, he will transfer it to his partners and see miracles, he will no longer have anything to do with these sports channels, but will fight all the forces to beat up the private channels that were his yesterday and tomorrow from his partners. Yes, and we saw in 2009 how he fought for the interests of HRT and how the handball championship went through HRT, and as RTL passed, with which he saw miracles, in the coming years his companies worked. I haven't heard any counterargument on these facts. Do you think it's okay for the director of Croatian television not to listen to the decision of complete leadership, they say, we'll apply to C, do the job, it's his job, he doesn't apply on his own, HRT loses his rights. Is that okay with you? Is that a little leak? Is that some kind of a bump? What guarantees you that 12 years later that person will act more responsibly at the head of HRT, and now that there are, among other things, five sports channels that are still owned by it? What does it tell you that it does not send valid documentation to the tender, does not give a public statement certified by the public notary as the tender requires? At least the Bridge Club knows what a public notary is and what it looks like. So there's no getting away. Everything is clearly stated, everything is clearly documented, I read to you today, I can print you all and give you the record from HRT in 2008, this session of the Programme Council where the whole case is listed. We've got excerpts owned by these companies, we've got what he's dealing with, we've got his documentation tender, we've got the text of the contest, we see that this isn't what we're looking for in art. 2 points. 8. And you're still insisting on that proposal. I don't know if you've pushed it well, do you really think in the next five years it'll be worth more to you at the head of HRT than you're going to lose politically by pecking you for five years? Because of everything that's going to happen tomorrow in sports relations, let's say, between his, uh, still channels and the HRT sports program, that I don't say other things. Are you aware that you have reversed HRT to the fact that this is a poorly-viewed information program? To further compromise, you would not be in control of something that is very small, inefficient media factor in the development of the Internet, Internet portals and social networks and commercial televisions that have all grown informative programs and their ratings. But that's what you dare to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63909	We have, we have two replicas, the first is Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63910	Here, we could hear a coalition partner who threatened to still not know how they'd vote on this thing, so tomorrow we'd be judging by what he said, we could have a surprise. I didn't notice that their colleagues in HDZ were upset with the chair, that their faces were on fire, I didn't even notice they blinked after that statement. So tell us here since you've been following the political situation in the country for a long time, what do you think the chances of the SDSS club surprise us tomorrow at this vote on the new director of HRT?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63911	Well, since we were talking about the sports channels of candidate Schwebb, I'll tell you that in sports terms, more specifically sports bookies. The chances are about 1.01 if Mr. Pupovac really votes against this proposal tomorrow, I'm taking you to the best dinner in Zagreb, and if you don't, you buy me a bacon. ... A representative who asked a question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63912	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63913	Dear Mr. Sanader, Vice President of HS, dear colleague Rasdic. I would like for the sake of the Croatian public if we could explain it a little plasticly to people, so 12 years ago we have a man who knocked down, crashed so huge financial resources to Croatian television, disobeyed the entire leadership, refused to listen within one system, listen, do what was his job, then he was gone for 12 years, man would say he went to some Cartesian monastery where he was engaged in the possessions he returned completely dedicated, but no, he was making a fat profit and actually raised RTL television. How is it possible that the ruling did not find someone, there are so many who would jump at the moment because they have a lot of members and set up a somewhat honest man, I believe they would find him. So it's mathematically improbable that there are no honest people in HDZ, so they put one such man at the head of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63914	My only answer is that the staff pool is exhausted and there is obviously no man they are sure of who would be less vulnerable to criticism. And resulting in what happened here at this time somewhere and began to change that trend. RTL, New TV were small commercial entertainment television, it was reality Big Brother, here some fun facilities, some little pro forms informative program, for example. But when the situation occurs to you that you who have the same handball power are playing handball championship in Croatia and loses the public TV service of transmission rights which, otherwise, has passed on all the strong things in history in Croatia, because this one has not transmitted because this one has not done what his job was, some wonders turn the tendency. I would even say that this is the first thing based on which the first hit on the media market that RTL put in HRT, thanks to the man inside the HRT system who didn't do his job, then collaborated with RTL. If someone doesn't understand what's going on, then I really don't know what else to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63915	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63916	He wasn't exactly my most understanding chairman. So fellow Rasudiæ, here it is quite clear that here, now certain problems have arisen in the ruling coalition and they are aware of what kind of man they are pushing and that this will all hang over them and Mrs Natalija who spent these two naughty sessions, it has been seen today that she is not comfortable with this debate either, the two MPs, Hrebak and Krstulović Opera, thanks to which we from the opposition and managed to get through these things by this week, otherwise everything should have been resolved in the past and the question is, thank you, fellow Opara once again, and the question is therefore what will be at the vote tomorrow. I'm not sure that a fellow Pupovian who today was so dubious that in the end he wouldn't do what he said. Maybe even vote against the Kraut or stay abstention. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63917	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63918	I'm a few years older than you and in some things maybe a little more experienced, not in this daily policy, so I'm expanding my offer, taking you to the best dinner in the city and Agent Selak Rasdic and you if tomorrow Mr. Pupovac and the other two MPs from his club are against this candidate. I think that says enough about my assessment of what we just saw in his speech, for God's sakes to be or not to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63919	Followed by a replica of respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Rasudiæ, we have talked a lot today and these days about this conflict of interest which the HDZ candidate and opposition within HDZ who are willing to support or nominally not, as they will not support but do not support the protest against it, do you think that what counterpart Martincevic was saying today, that you are a member of the Media Committee if I am not mistaken, that it was the role of the board to do something in a situation where the HRT Supervisory Board did not recognize something that we identified here as an elicit conflict of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63921	All problems legal with this process, they start with a supervisory board that didn't do their job, they have one lawyer, they have to have within the supervisory board, they have a legal service on HRT that they could consult with, is their failure, which in the text of the competition is not at least a link to the provisions of the Defence Act. The failure of the Supervisory Board is also in that it is allowed to apply despite the fact that candidate Schweb did not make a statement certified by the public notary as prescribed by the text of the competition, not only him but another of the 13 we interviewed. In the end, Mr. Cutura, the chairman of the Supervisory Board for an unknown reason did not come to our last session at all, which is the same one, we interpreted it as a way of showing disrespect to the relevant committee and then later the problem rolled further. Yes, there's a big problem with the supervisory board's work as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63922	Followed by a replica of the respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63923	Thank you very much. My colleague I'm going to break up, not just you, but other colleagues in the morning are talking about a conflict of interest. Now I'm interested in why you have double standards, at least you're an intellectual and you should always be equal, right? This man is accused of being in a conflict of interest even though he's just a candidate, he hasn't been elected yet and you've got party leaders whose club has ruled a conflict of interest. How can such a conflict of interest be endured by Mr. Bozo Petrov and do you not mind? You tell him, Bozo, drive, never mind, pay the fine, you can be a politician. The man hasn't been elected yet, you've already declared him. Now, I'm asking, I'm interested, is that worth it, that conflict of interest only to us HDZ... Some kind of factor or isn't it worth it to you at all? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic told a member of her club that it is not at all interested that in the conflict of interest it is multiple. So are these convenient situations, elimination or are they just like a figure of speech? Don't you mind, I say, when is someone yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63924	Time. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63925	Well, he's hurt. 238, in no conflict of interest, is Bozo Petrov, therefore, would like to present his colleague, Boris, in what kind of conflict of interest is it or is he referring to the decisions of the commission where the commission found that Bozo Petrov instead of I don't know, 400 kn reported 350? So what he's accomplishing when he's doing an examination of people who's been issued hunting licenses, so. What does that have to do with Mr. Schwebb's conflict of interest, I don't really know, but here's a fellow Boris might explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63926	Time. This is your second warning, based on the article. I'm giving you a notice with a takeout of words. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63927	Your Honor, last week, a party has been convicted of corruption. I don't know what it's about, if it's about a review for a hunting society that he shouldn't have done where he did, he's wrong for 50 or 100 kn, I think we should get them back into the budget, but here we're talking about unsupervised things. We're talking about millions of jobs here, yes, it's worth it to God Petrov. Here's a public assessment, you get her to know, to bear all the consequences. There's no difference whether it's 50 kn or the millions amount your candidate spins and spins for HRT. Yeah, it's worth the same to everyone. I will, I will reprove him, I will now, I will reprove him immediately. You will reprimand Prime Minister Plenkovic for your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63928	Please don't communicate with each other. Next individual debate, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63929	During the whole last week and this week in which we are having a debate on this important appointment, we could hear several interesting thesiss that should have been used to difame us as parliamentary representatives, especially as representatives of certain political options. One of the interesting themes that came first from the HDZ ranks and then from the ranks of the HDZ opposition was to imagine, the members of different political groups hugged or stood next to each other members of different political groups who were united in their intention not to elect a new director of the HRT. This tells us a lot about the quality of our political space and how much individual political parties, in this case HDZ and HDZ opposition, underestimate voters in Croatia. So, they think if someone was left and right, about one problem and stood together, and in this case the problem was really important, it was protected by the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in a situation where the ruling majority knew nothing but the pressure of the pay phone because if it had known, it would have acted at noon before and would not have come into this situation. And then they think that this imaginary elector of a particular political body when he sees Ursha and Nikola together will faint and never choose that person again. You're a terrible underestimation of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can't wait for us to put our ego and our private political success on the side united because of what all of us who had good intentions even entered politics, which is to fight for the general interest. The rule of law and respect for procedure is far above every division and difference that exists between us. This is where the united opposition showed it. And you really need to underestimate all of Croatia by thinking that something we can boast will actually serve as an argument to expose our unauthentics. I will precisely because it is said once again that I am really proud to have participated in a united action of opposition which has realised that the common interest, the well-being of the Republic of Croatia and the quality of public service come ahead of our partial differences. Moreover, it was also the reason why I entered politics and for the first time last week after a year of acting in opposition, I felt that perhaps in one future it would be better. That we'll be able to put aside what we share, not forget it, not ignore it because I'm the first to object to those that are politically and secularly disagreed with, but that in the key battles that are for the benefit of this society that put us here to represent, put them aside and stand together. You think it's an insult, I think it's a message for which Croatia cries out. Another thing to say here, this announcement of a possible different vote, and even because of what happened last week, I'm not giving up until proven otherwise. If there is a possibility and here it is announced that there is a possibility, I will take you seriously, and I will keep you for this announcement and I will hold you by your word, show you, listen here to this whole opposition action, listen to all our arguments, sit away from us, show you have the principles that you've just talked about here for the time being and stand up with all of us, stand by the opposition, and help us choose for what's right because this isn't just a matter of this choice, this is a question to restore trust in the action of public service and the question of getting back trust in politics at all, to show that it's possible that everything is not going to go according to the spy form in which the competitions are just a farce, but to reach something that can and do, that there is a possible world in which everything is not everything. Prearranged at HDZ lunches past the public eye. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63930	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63931	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it's that sort of syndrome you don't see in your elephant eye, but in your neighboring eye you see a fly. So, colleagues ruling from HDZ, everyone forgot that the president was Mr. Sanader, not the one sitting out of you but the other, that there was a collective crying when dear Ivo went away and they now resented the opposition what? That the opposition is doing its job. What the opposition did and said. In doing so, why not have the same attitude, regardless of the worldview of certain things? Why don't we all think about the same things together anyway? So that's why we're different, that's why citizens choose us by some things where we're different or the same or whatever it is. Thus, that ugliness or mockery with us will first come to grips with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63932	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63933	Of all the reactions I could hear about this decision on corruption, I was most impressed by the prime minister's reaction, who said HDZ had already paid the fine by not winning one vote. So, HDZ thinks that if you're corruptly wrong about your own country, maybe you should skip one cycle and then come back stronger again. So that's what HDZ really thinks about corruption, that there's no punishment to pay, and if it's really forced, it's kind of short. In politics or you are or you're not. Politics is a public job, and this message that came from here the moment that spin spreads that opposition neither exists, that there is a public interest around which we different can unite and what the HDZ as such will never reach its head. But that's why HDZ is already a political past.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63934	Time Next replica, the esteemed Nino Rasdic. [[Intruder Selak Rasdic: But can't reach the head.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63935	A conflict of interest and past sins has been discussed, however, his application was not mentioned. I've carefully read all 13 proposed programs, at least 5.6 is better, better quality, more extensive, more layered. Here's what Schweb says in one part of his programme after realizing that according to the latest EBU report, Croatia belongs to the country there with Turkey and Romania where the least trust in public service is, it detects it as a problem and says all these indicators of the fact that today restoring trust is a major challenge. First, the relevance must now be returned through a wide range of media and platforms, not just on radio and television. For him, losing confidence is a technological problem, strengthening online, and it's not his problem that in the show Open, the day the money is discovered in the Janaf affair in the car of the deputy county attorney, what's the theme of the show Open at night, remember? Tourism, tourism. These are problems and he sees it as a technical problem a little stronger than other platforms, there's his program.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63936	If that were really his problem, he would never have been a candidate for the ruling majority. So, the prerequisite to become a candidate for the ruling majority is that it's not a problem for you but that's your modus operandi, but what kind of choice this is, and what kind of party puts that person at the head of HRT, is best told you by Minister Oblisen Koržinek. So, on my remark that everyone already knew that it was her candidate at the moment when he received the support of the ruling majority, she said it was Hasanbegovic's spin, which has proved to be true and what kind of person it is, shows the best fact that he became a culture minister without a day's work experience. And where did he become a culture minister? In HDZ, in her government, so in the government of her party. So, she actually recognised the way her party frames, where she herself was horrified by the election of a minister. And here we can be horrified by her choice and by those she pushes for director of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63937	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63938	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Sanader, respected colleagues Marija Selak Rasudic. Is it possible that tomorrow a big turn will happen, given that the Pupovac colleague was very clear? I can't say explicit, but he made it very clear that there's a huge probability that he won't support the Schwebb, whose fingers are in a lot of things where they shouldn't be, we heard a colleague of Rasdic, so that's the man who put HRT in a position in 2009 where no one loyal to his house would bring his house into that position and then, through his companies, he raised competitive television. So, there's everything clear. And after 12 years, HDZ would like to put him back in the lead. Is it possible that tomorrow we will still have a rapsody of democracy where Mr. Pupovac will say no to nepotism and corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63939	Two possible interpretations of a Pupec reaction like this. The first interpretation is logical and opportune, it says that he has sent a threatening message here, which is why his shares will grow and will therefore not vote as he has announced, receive certain concessions and thus add something to himself. It is a logical and opportunised classical political action and the expected development of events. However, there is another option, and in this case we help him with our interpretation, so let him grow the prices of his shares, but there is another option. There's a chance that fellow Pupovac here will surprise us all. And I'm going to give everyone, and I'm going to give Pupovac a chance until he convinces me otherwise, and when he convinces me, he's going to listen to my entire mandate. Let's be surprised. Presumption of innocence, until proven otherwise, I still hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63940	The last replica, the esteemed Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63941	Thank you. So, I don't know what Pupovac's going to do tomorrow, if he came here to say he's not sure what he's going to do, I expect he's not going to support the Kraut and now the question is maybe they're counting on me not to know, the opposition can't come in full numbers, so here's what the representatives of the SDP Clubs, the Social Democrats and the others are going to do is to make sure we're all in the Parliament tomorrow and then we'll see what the Pupovac is going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63942	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63943	I agree that we should all go away because we cannot transfer our bodies as the ruling majority can when it suits it, we must really be present if we want to vote, and in that sense a great responsibility is right on us. And my colleague Pupovac put his head on the tray with this. If an opposition arises and he votes with the ruling majority, he is put in a position to be one of the main culprits if not the main culprit for the election of the new HRT director. That's what he chose for this speaker. If we are surprised, let us be surprised, there will still be hope in this Croatia, a road which the opposition started last week, which I hope will continue in all key issues which are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia so that we can act together, to prevent both corruption and disrespect of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63944	Time. Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63945	I'll start with what the last speech is done with, so it's important that tomorrow's opposition comes to that vote as much as possible. I mean, take that in mind, is it, no matter how things develop, it would be extremely important that MPs and MPs from the opposition be in as many votes as possible, no matter how much we don't know how this thing ends, if we have any chance, but in any case, that candidate would be elected, ruling must have most votes tomorrow, right? I would say just one note with Minister Hasanbegovic, he was in the government where Most was also, if I'm not mistaken, and I may be wrong, but I looked at it when Hasanbegovic was a minister, I think it was in that government, correct me if I'm wrong. But I would actually express one optimism here, but perhaps it's a fake, no, which is related to the presentation of my colleague Goran Ivanovic, meaning not only Milorad Pupovec that he may be retarded by this decision and I was on that round table yesterday, told me most of the opposition MPs were naively from his presentation that HDZ could reternize from its decision, to which Minister Oblisen Koržinek said that they did not come here but to defend their position, it seems to me that the minister has a stronger point of view, or a stronger point, is standing by the Swedish than HDZ, correct me if I'm wrong, but that's the impression I got on that round table yesterday. But why did my colleague, Ivanovic, make me so happy when he started his exposure to yak, yak, yak? I was convinced that this young, young, young man may have been linked to the epiphany or discovery or only a reflection of the problem with this candidate, which we all pointed out, that perhaps the first one was connected to the fact that the HDZ finally realized that it was a candidate in a deep conflict of interest, that the second one was linked to the fact that the HDZ had realized that the law on HRT had set out that the candidate had to submit a statement proving that he was not in conflict of interest and that perhaps the third one was related to HDZ, that what was going to happen after the vote, was subject to the Constitutional Court’s decision or that the Constitutional Court could annul that decision because the whole procedure was unlawful. But, unfortunately, I was wrong. All that means now more speakers have already said and I think it's pretty clear and I agree with those who said we didn't get the counter arguments on this side. If we're wrong, it's really a huge problem, to this extent that I would even say right now that you should just let it spin because it's obvious that it's a conflict of interest and a decision that will be taken in an illegal way. But I must also warn that somehow all the problems are not gone if this decision is not made, nor if this decision is made, the thing is radically different or radically worse, things will unfortunately be as they are, and HRT is more of a symptom and picture of where we are today than the cause of this problem as well as what some sort of correction of that picture could really solve our problems, I think that we are all aware of it and so much of it is really one window that when we look at it, we can figure out which position we are taking and this is really a position at the beginning of Europe where we have agreed to this place on the very beginning of Europe where catching up steps means with the most developed, technologicalisation, investment in research and development that would contribute to our development of the industry, export industries, therefore, to return us to some of the road that could give us some kind of a better life for all alone on HRT, even though there are not available in private formats, about the future I'm afraid we won't see so soon. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63946	Replica, dear Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Peović, except that this reinterpretation was cool, ow, ow, I wanted you to comment on these differences in concepts that we had the opportunity to see first of all on the round table where it turns out that actually HDZ's vision, in fact this concept of public service is much less public, and much more private and some other roles are being apostrophe over what might be a more traditional and social one, I would say, a more useful role of public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63948	Thank you for that question. What we saw yesterday on that round table really pointed out that not even because of some intention or perhaps conscious conceptual political picture, Minister Obuljen-Kožinek really gives an insight that what we call a public hack by private, is for her what is nicely called a public-private partnership, right, and thus defending euphemisms what is taking away from us all this public service. HRT needs to be publicly well and publicly well defended, so what the trust is that journalists still understand what is public good and that the journalists who were there on that Round Table, and I believe the others we all know and know, means the workers who work on HRT still understand what is public good and that it should be defended.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63949	The next replica honours Marija Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63950	My colleague Peovic, the Constitutional Court will not cancel anything. The Constitutional Court will eventually annul the HDZ's verdict on corruption, so that I would not wave with the Constitutional Court which is the product of their commercial majority, it can help them in both this and any other proceedings. You said he was Hasanbegovic Minister of the Most Government. Two things, first of all he was the minister of HDZ's quota, and the second I didn't speak at all about Mr Hasanbegovic's expertise and intricacies, it's not the subject of my interest, I found an obvious fact, which is that the minister criticized HDZ's staffing, and she herself is the result of that same staffing. So she said everything about their quality, and she's their choice. To make things more paradoxical. And finally, to ask you, we missed you, you talk so much about the revolution, and when the revolution came you were gone, what happened? Who's Lenin? You're stuck in Finland?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63951	Yeah, thanks for that. I've been to a union meeting, because there's a labour law being passed, and tomorrow, the minimum wage bill we're not hearing about on your part. That revolutions are needed, but maybe you should also work triage. We need to understand and understand what the priorities of those who live off these salaries that you can't really live with today are, and I'm not reducing your value at all, your actions, and I can see that you're terribly enthusiastic about it and I welcome it. But as for the Constitutional Court, it means, like, I don't know, maybe a month ago you wouldn't probably say that there's a verdict, now it's been passed and so on, it doesn't have to be too mythological about it, I don't know, there are judges in that system who are really moral and who can make some autonomous decisions, I think it's also pretty dangerous, right, to generalize it. As far as Hasanbegovic is concerned, I think I'm just the Stey in the Obvius, so I just warned you that Hasanbegovic was a minister in the government in which HDZ collated with the Most, no less, these are simply facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63952	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Maria Selak-Razupić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63953	Article 238 of my colleague, Peovic, said that the topics of minimum wages and labour rights are something we are not interested in. It's completely wrong. The first we spoke publicly about inflation, on our initiative Governor Vujčić came to the Parliament to discuss inflation and silent overruns, the first we spoke publicly about the Labour Act and to market its changes to protect workers' rights. Do not deceive the Croatian public, it is not our fault that you are late for the revolution this time. I hope you won't next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63954	This was a pure replica of yours, so on the basis of Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Followed by the replica, the esteemed William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63955	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the honourable representative of Peovic. I mentioned that Mr. Schweb, in his term as HRT director, brought to Hloverka Novak-Srzic, and that this led to a drastic decline in the quality of journalism on HRT, however, he also brought in Bruno Kovacevic, who is now the editor-in-chief and who has led to this really ridiculous situation on television to do everything live style, that in these moments of suffering with Koron, torment with existence, where one third of people live, but really in extreme misery can say, not just poverty. He's doing a live style program, please comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63956	Well, thank you for that replica, really what we look at on HRT, and it's about poverty, along with poverty, with wages that are not enough to meet basic living needs, is actually living style, I think it's the only way that this topic can come to HRT's programme, and HRT persistently and consistently implements disinformation of the public regarding the employment rate, or unemployment rate, related to the alleged growth of minimum wages, average wages, disinformation of labour contracts and so on. So the characteristics of labour law and life, what actually reflects on most of the meanings in Croatia are completely dragged through pink glasses and statistics here serve only to prevent people from actually seeing where we actually live, and it is clear to everyone that we can no longer prevent, and that is that we are the second of the behind by wealth, i.e. that we are the poorest country in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63957	Thank you. The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63958	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and very well-respected MPs. The other day we witnessed here a historic unification of the opposition, then a colleague of Zekanovic said that he did not want to hug or kiss with you and that he was no part of any united opposition, and now we hear from you where you call and pray for all MPs to appear tomorrow at the Croatian Parliament, so that maybe a fellow Pupovac would make some kind of decision that he would make alone, he doesn't need any mentor, and then we will testify again to one of the historical events. Do you feel that it is legitimate, both by law and by the Statute and by the Rules of Procedure, that most choose a candidate whom they consider to have the best programme of all offered, or is it nevertheless an act of democracy, indemnity as you wish to show it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63959	Answer. I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63960	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Ivanovic, I would say, I hope at least made a mistake in his interpretation of the decision of Croatian Sovereignists as a Club not to participate in a circus that took place last week, but we must point out once again that we are here categorically against your candidate for election for the director of HRT. To be clear, he would ask the vice president to respect the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63961	This is also a third warning to you, and also to you, on the basis of Article 240(2), this reminder is worth taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63962	My colleague Ivanovic, I do not know where you heard that I said that I think it is undemocratic to make the decision that you are going to make, according to the fact that I have been wronged, tomorrow, but you must also allow the opposition to call all the meaning of the opposition representatives to come to the vote, because that is a democratic act to show who is for, who is against, and you have heard the strong seem to me, arguments from the opposition and I really do not think that you have given any relevant answers to them to reject that decision in some way. I did not really participate here as I was called by my colleague Selak-Raspadić in blocking the pay phone, because as I said, I was in a meeting with the unions where we are talking about the Labour Act and the Minimum Salary Act, which according to it, the Minimum Pay Act tomorrow comes to the Labour Committee, and next week perhaps we here in the Parliament and which was completely under the radar passed most of the MPs, but I welcome all the actions, so you must admit that this is one form of food, that is, resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63963	Thank you. The next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63964	Dear colleagues, I'm wondering if you see any connection between the Fimi-media project we saw the final one day, let's say, some sort of calculation of the Croatian judiciary with this project and the violent takeover of Croatian radio television, or what we're all talking about, some kind of public media space? And whose benefit do you think it's doing, if it's not the benefit of the HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63965	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63966	Yeah, thanks for that. So the Fimi-media is a very eclectic example of how HDZ benefits the team, thinks under quotes, I have to tell public-private partnerships. And, if you remember, a few days ago, we were just talking about the Law on Electronic Media that could finally define the items of the Law that would prevent what happened with Fimi-media or at least ease or at least try to solve means the problems that were present that the money was actually being poured in and in fact a party is being secretly advertised in one way, meaning one corrupt way, and now eventually it will have to HDZ and return that money. But there's really no political will to talk about it at all, and then when we see how, I think the selection of directors is just a symptom of the deeper problems we're in, and obviously there's no political will to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63967	And the last replica, the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63968	Thank you very much, colleague Katarina. I can see that you may be a little bit, don't be offended, naively believe that HDZ would change your opinion or colleague Pupovac, don't be angry, I don't think there'll be anything out of it with a colleague of Popovec or a colleague of the HDZ. So probably the ruling majority will choose the gentleman concerned according to their, so to speak, preferences for the director of Croatian Radio Television. But my question is whether this new director will, in your opinion, and whether it is at all capacity to stop certain programme devastations of public service, organisational, technological and who is actually responsible for this situation on Croatian radio television. Is it all our fault, is it the press' fault, is it the editors' fault, is it lack of technology, or is HDZ responsible for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63969	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63970	Although I said myself that my hope that, after some arguments, it would still change my mind completely proved naive, but I like to be naive in politics in a positive sense that we really believe that some changes are possible. However, as far as the election of the Swedish head of the HRT is concerned, it is clear that it cannot change anything, nor that it actually wants to change, because we here have a man who is in an eclectic conflict of interest, whose interest is really opposed. I mean, we can talk about conflict of interest in different ways and different forms and levels, but this conflict of interest is really eclastane. So if you have companies that are in the interest of public service not being the one who is dominant in the sports program, then it's clear that no giving up ownership, one third of ownership and these companies can handle it, and I'm saying the workers have also told us that software is probably sold to HRT, so we have a double conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63971	The next individual debate is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63972	Dear colleagues, when I thought about what to say about this subject, then actually my first thought was to come for this pay phone and walk away here for five minutes. Why don't you shut up? Because this right-hand side doesn't hear anything she's told, she hasn't heard it on the board, she hasn't heard it after the board, she hasn't heard it on the other board, she hasn't heard it on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and she's not actually hearing it today. But once upon a time, someone smart in that television show said that the most expensive television program is a bad television programme, and this ruling majority serves the Croatian people a bad rerun for the bad rerun that the people are paying for. For years in Croatia, we have been looking at the incompetent leaderships of Croatian broadcasting that are named to stabilize HRT to introduce order on HRT. The same HRT that we used to call, but not even a colloquial cathedral of the spirit. Truth be told, that's when it was called RTZ. And remember the nineties on HRT and how good that program actually was and how painful the idea of what's happening on HRT today is. For years, we've been watching TV clans reckonings, for years we've been watching the HRT literally grow climates of mistrust, ignorance, intricacies, and what's the worst of it lately we've been witnessing abuse of journalists and journalists. What needs to be added is the atmosphere of fear in which HRT is champion. At the moment, HRT is suing 35 of its journalists for violation of honor and reputation. At the same time, I have a clear suspicion that he will sue the chief director who sued those 35 journalists, that he violated the reputation and honour of the HRT when he ended up in prison on charges of corruption. The marsh atmosphere, which appeared on Prisavlje, is further enhanced by HDZ's desire to control the media. In my replica, I actually asked my colleague if she saw a connection between Fimi-medie and what's happening today at the appointment. The connection is obvious. Fimi-media was founded to control public media, or to control media space. Today, the appointment of the director of HRT will give the entire public space in its own hands. In which category should the eternal desire of HDZ be placed to manage public television? Most people would probably say that horror. And after all these failures to comply with the procedure, the appointment of a candidate who is burdened by a conflict of interest, who has not even handed over a statement that he should have handed over, a vote on a board without a quorum. I think it's a lot too much for the ruling majority as it is. If the Council chooses him from day one, he will be under special surveillance. Every move he makes will be watched. The public will compare his work with all those suspensions, unusual news and countless interviews likely to appear ministers and prime ministers in Dnevnik. Did it have to be like that? I honestly believe it isn't. I have warned several times that this is a place that should somehow lead to the quality of the program, to what HRT really needs to do and do and what it should mean in this country. Here's the time, so I'm sorry I didn't say everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63973	Next individual debate, respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63974	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Why are we even discussing a proposal for director of HRT today? Because here is a common practice that is in Croatia, which is that a Bačić carries a bag of money, ends up in custody and today HRT has lost its director, but he's got a clearly good engineer in a good place and we're discussing the director of HRT. HRT has absolutely turned into a political prey, and that is clear to say. And that is clear to say that from that time on, remember one director of HRT who speaks of the cathedral of the spirit, it is unfortunately that from the cathedral of the spirit there is no more cathedral or spirit left, and it has turned really into something that public television, the public service should not be. Mr. Schwebb, there's been a lot of debate here about his conflict of interest whether or not he is, when he will be. Let's imagine that Coca Cola decides to appoint his director and then Coca Cola takes any more than the co-owner of Pepsi Cole. That's what we're talking about. So we're talking about this example. Imagine Coca Cola's new director and see wonders, he immediately takes a co-owner of Pepsi Cole as director, so that's what we're talking about. It is absolutely the interest of everyone to come to HRT to show a picture of what we want to be public television, but by ruling exactly what they want, they want public television to be in their domain, to be the prime minister's interviews exactly when they need to be, some of these opposition MPs sitting in the middle or on the left can only come to HRT if they die and their obituary is, the parliamentary representative died and that, otherwise, there's no way of coming. But HRT is supposed to give a picture of this, but this story didn't start yesterday and didn't go with Mr. Bačić and his departure to custody. That story started a lot earlier. Much earlier, and everything that needed to be collapsed, from the information program to the educational program, collapsed significantly. Public television should have a strong educational program, a program that can really be in the function of young generations, a little look at the research that is about young people who don't even watch TV, who are on the portals, about that one laboratory for journalists who have some other television with us science fiction. So, when we talk about it all, my people, let's try not to embarrass ourselves, I don't understand why we're smudged like geese in the fog, so there's no dilemma about how we're going to vote on the new director, Mr. Schwebb, but you ruling have tools in your hands, you have the tools to show what a democracy would mean, why a geese in the fog is disgraced further, why continue to encourage those people who are the best on HRT to leave, go away with their heads, no matter how they pass, so you can't get some program that will have all the elements in the way they should have. That's why I'm saying public television is an important and informative part, it's an important and educational part, and it's the fun part, because what are we talking about? We are talking about a billion kuna subscriptions paid by Croatian citizens, not to keep looking at one and the same, not because if someone closes down something didn't happen, but so that they can actually watch one quality program, so look at the little information program, watch the diary of another television, it's a half seven RTL, in seven, possibly a little bit turns HRT, and immediately switch to Nova. So what's supposed to be gone without me talking about education. I watch an educational show or when I want to watch some documentary shows, it's a long way from what it was, so let's just try to get back to the trail of what it was. So by ruling you have all the tools in your hands, we'll see how you use them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63975	The first replica, the Honorable Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63976	Dear colleagues, you have touched in your speech, what everyone says, three things. To educate, inform, entertain. And you mentioned that children watch the Internet. The kids outside are watching BBC educational programs. Inform, people outside start a BBC when they want to see what happened. When you look in Croatia, I think you can find the HRT diary only by mistake on television, everyone who, let's say in a way, is informed first through N1 and then via the daily Novi i RTL, I don't know who looked at the journal of HRT. And by having fun, so I don't know any good shows they've recorded in the last few years, and look how many of them have been recorded, when we're talking about shows, I'm not just talking about... Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63977	Thank you very much. So in some other countries, public television has gone through some processes. And there we can really look at Poland, we can look at Hungary or some other country, but it really should be the ones where public television is really proud, and that's the BBC. I'm sure no child will turn the HRT on a single educational program, in my time or not, not long ago could have done it and could have done it. So we just need to know what we want. Whether we want to have HRT as a ruling voice or we want to have really public television that serves everyone, because you know very well that television subscription is paid by everyone, try not to pay it. The same moment will come to your attention and then we come to the topic of television subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63978	Thank you, next replica of the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63979	Dear colleagues, I agree with you on that, when we go back there we should find the sources of the problem. But the source, the European Commission noted at that time, was the Law on HRT in 2012, when it was passed even beyond a positive opinion, hence the negative opinion of the European Commission, which criticised and warned about all the problems that would arise because of such a law. When the consensus that was reached during the negotiations was broken in 2010 and then this Law was imposed, which is difficult then to re-create a consensus and then polemize right, left, unfortunately it was all possible to predict then, but then no one reacted, for example, even from some associations of professional, only opposition then and the European Commission. And unfortunately, today we face the consequences of such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63980	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63981	Thank you very much. So, to me, it's always the most likable answer why someone doesn't have homework. You have that answer because the dog just ate it the day before. Remember, you and I were in a former assembly when the decision was made to go back to the State Inspectorate. There was no dilemma. 58 laws have been changed. The laws are still changing. It was warned that it might not be wise for all the inspectors to go, but it was such a decision and it was done. Why? This minister who's not a minister for half a year, and not a year who's a minister for a long time has made a decision and told my people, so I have something in the vault that's not good. I'm going to change it quickly because it's not good and it needs to be changed. She didn't make that decision. Why? Because she decided to use it. So that's all the time you've had the opposition, she said it wasn't right, but when she was able to change it, she didn't change. You should ask her why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63982	There's an individual debate coming up. Honorable representative Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63983	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me a few sentences on the subject of election of director of Croatian Radio Television. It was there that I listened carefully to different speeches about how it has been lately or in recent times I don't know how much television or institution is influenced by ruling ones. But I don't think that's the case. From the very beginning of the establishment of the then Television Zagreb is party television. The problem occurred in 1990 when we became a multiparty system, and we know very well that nearly 100 thousand or slightly smaller members of the former Communist Union have gone to HDZ, but they have also crossed their habits into HDZ. Whoever has been in power for the last 30 years has acted the same way or very much and held Croatian radio television as his lazy, as his prey in the elections and accordingly named the leadership of the TV or radio houses as it fits them. This farce about the election of the directors in the public competition is unnecessary farce, unnecessary torture for all of us, unnecessary torture for the Croatian public because in the end, what the ruling wants will happen. That's why I suggest that this farce be abolished and that the act of democracy or some democratic professional procedure, because that's how it is, and I personally think it's even the right thing to do, by ruling there, name who they need and who they think they're going to name. Besides, they got that trust in the election, so I think that's how it should be. But what is the problem and what must not be that all of this must be paid together by taxpayers or citizens of the Republic of Croatia through the mandatory Croatian subscription, the fee, however you will, haraker. It needs to be abolished, and then let whoever is named without competition, without anyone he wants, and let him suffer it. They want to have their own television, let them have their own party television, but not on the expense of taxpayers and economies because they pay not only the citizens' fee, but the salaries and the economy, and it's all expensive about a billion and 500 million kuna, plus advertising is gathered here and up to 2 billion kunas for a mastodon that is bigger than everyone else's radio and all the other TVs in Croatia combined, and it serves the ruling party both now and in the last 30 years whoever is in power. So I suggest that in the future, we begin to gather around this idea in the opposition to abolish the tax on that, therefore mandatory tax, a mandatory harrassor to have his television and his radio and everything in order, and on the market so that Croatia's broadcasting represents from year to year less and less because the viewers can be harassed, you can tax them, but you can't fool them so that the Croatian broadcasting program of all these major commercial televisions has been convincing for many years. Unfortunately, it's the only one that costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63984	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. If I understand you correctly, Comrade Cresso, you're actually trying to abolish... Farce of public competitions in that part? [[You don't understand.]] Well, perhaps in some cases, because most of Croatia's public tenders are won by those who have agreed in advance, so it is likely that it is created since Croatia's entry into the European Union that we are all acting as a democracy. But in fact, he would disagree with you about Croatian broadcasting because it should be public good, and the public good should still be the good that all citizens use. There should actually be a national consensus on protecting public goods and public communication infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63986	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63987	If that were a theory, that would be great, but practice shows quite another. It's no public good. It's a public house, both in the right and in the literal sense of the word. It's a public house, not a public good. And the public house is usually paid by the public house users, you know, and voluntary. When you go to a public house you probably don't have it in Croatia, but we all know that there's the same farce of the law and of acting like a hypocrite of false morality, then whoever wants to go inside pays for it. In this public house called HRTs, everyone has to pay and no one enters, especially me from the opposition because they don't call us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63988	The next debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63989	Ladies and gentlemen, in the violent takeover of power in a country that we call both a coup or a coup in modern times, it is always the first step to take over national or public television. If we follow that logic then we can say that Croatia is in a state of emergency, because Croatian broadcasting has for many years been acting as a spokeswoman of the national, corrupt ruling structure in Croatia and completely ignores professional standards and the worst interests of Croatian citizens. The appointment of Mr. Schweb is merely a continuity in this anti-democracy and particularly anti-conclusive way of managing HRT from the information programme to the documentary production of HRT acts only in the service of protection of the current situation in Croatia, not as it stands in the public interest. According to Croatia's Croatian corruption at all, it does not exist and the European Commission says 97% of Croatian citizens believe corruption is widespread. Have we ever been able to see on HRT that someone's been discovered against the law? When they report on existing affairs, it is then in a way that reduces the damage, and protects the real actors of these corruption affairs. The latest case, so-called. Pandora Papers is a classic example. In the open-air show, people who are in the way of conspiracy theorists who are interested in having these documents come out right now. According to that old Ukrainian method, he's trying to hide a clue, and he's directing the public's interest to be a problem to a barren debate. HRT is obliged to provide information to Croatian citizens. Instead, they make a show with the floscules so they don't accidentally talk about how a member of HEP Management Marko Ćosic is one of Pandora Papers' actors. That's exactly the method of hiding corruption. Even in Montenegro, the State's Attorney's Office immediately opened an investigation. In Croatia, with the help of the media affair, it hides itself in order to be forgotten. HRT systematically gives space to only those political forces that it knows are not jeopardising the current corruption order in Croatia. When, as a representative, I give clarifications to the European Commission which is interested in certain cases of corruption and lawlessness, HRT is silent because there is no such thing as HRT corruption. The same so-called "HRT" always happens on HRT. analysts and always the same historians. The professional integrity of these permanent commentators for HRT does not play any role. The latest case is a series whose author has compromised Hrvoje Klasic. In this series, Klasic hired as an accomplice a Belgrade historian, a certain Bojan Dimitrijevic, a man known as the author of the book commander. It is about the book of praise about the convicted war criminal and the perpetrator of genocide in Srebrenica, Ratko Mladic. Is HRT aware that the engagement of this Belgrade historian is involved in denying genocide, which is human and civilizationally totally unacceptable. But for Croatian radio television there is no Christopher Clark from Cambridge University, one of the best historians of history 20. Centuries and a good acquaintance of Croatian opportunities. For historian Clark, history is a science based on facts and therefore it has no space on Croatian broadcasting. Because classic HRT is afraid of facts and their role is to hide the truth. The involvement of Klasic himself, author of the book on Miki Špiljko, the client of the political murder of Croatian immigrant Stjepan Đurekovic, is clear evidence that HRT with Croatian citizens' money participates in the manipulation of the Croatian public. The conclusion of the work of HRT can also be stated: HRT hides corruption of ruling structures, HRT participates in historical counterfeits, and finally HRT unlawfully deny Croatian citizens the right to information, and thus violates the law. From this point on, I suggest that Austria, for example, sees that the head of the Public Change Research Agency can also be arrested and processed for public manipulation. Let them also be aware of the director whom you will choose and the top of the HRT that what they are doing is illegal, and that the time of rule of law will come very soon in Croatia and that they will have to account for what they did and who they did. Out of all the above, I am against Mr. Schwebb's election as director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63990	The next one will be a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will still remain on that thesis that we raised on behalf of the club that HRT must be a public communication infrastructure, that must be public good. People need to pay their subscription. And they should pay if we want Croatian broadcasting to really be public good. And as I said on several occasions, the ruling government will elect its director, and I don't think the director will stop either the programme or the organisational devastation of Croatian radiotelevision. Now, what's the crucial question here? Why that collective perception of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so public broadcasting does not satisfy the legitimate intended purpose and which are actually real, structural problems or one problem of Croatian broadcasting. And the question of who's responsible for it? Can we take that into account those concretely recognizable entities, so there are any HRT journalists, directors, future, present, prison, bureaucracy, politicians, the public, lack of technology, perhaps competition. Maybe... competition in Croatia, cooperatives or advertisers? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once upon a time, not so long ago, only the business of Croatian Radio Television has been identified by all of us with some TV shows or shows such as Our little miscellaneous, or even the legendary Quiscotteque that even up to '95. as much as I remember broadcasting on Croatian TV. It was a good information program, so it was the only sport program, as well as educational. What do we have today? What are the strong stops of Croatian broadcasters by which HRT optimally says I will represent, represents the public's interest. And what are actually historically crucial motives, the hotspots of these chronic processes that are still going on on HRT. So today we still have the acquisition of certain programs that traditionally represent the cause of different accusations, because they often end up in various different private accounts. Well here is not only a matter of drawing out direct financial earnings, but also of a certain cultural substance that has been built for decades since HRT was also called Radio Television Zagreb, which has been exploited more or less uninterrupted. So again, the question can be asked whether perhaps other than the lost cultural substance, perhaps even some revenue has been lost. Today, today, when the development continues, which is normal, commercial television, online distribution channels of all kinds of media content, the key question will be how many audiences will actually follow HRT content, and will only follow them if they are, if they are more and more, if they are more. Why? Because today, instead of any information show of HRT, we can all choose any show on any other television, we can download instead of some series from the Internet, from Netflix, from whatever we want any series, the whole season, more seasons, and instead of some music on HRT we can download ourselves from any search engine again, which we want, which is our current taste. Now, why am I saying that the subscription is good? Because it does not mean that all that I have stated is that the need for production should be less, on the contrary, so there should be as much verifiable information as possible, so in the contexts that give meaning to these verified information. So, the need for investigative journalism is growing, because more or less, you all know that most of the commercial media is allegedly influenced by various multinational corporations and different companies that are paying for advertising and thus you can't write something critical. That makes sense. I'm opening the question of education here, in artistic terms, means some recognizable, really to say so. And also, it's the only place where there can be more texts in the Croatian and languages of national minorities, and that's why we should stay, so to speak, public television and public good, and as we've said on behalf of the club, I don't think that's how it should be with the new director, but I say, it's the right of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63992	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63993	Dear colleague Doncic, I'm listening to you, I'm listening to Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, I'm listening to your side, and I'm wondering what's changed in your thinking. You were the minister, she was the minister, you had your government, there was a debate here for a very long time, I was in the opposition then, about Mr. Radman's then director. The portals were called, the Assembly Media Committee asked for information about how much it paid that man, and you didn't give it to us then, now you're interpreting and speaking in the dictionary that we might have spoken at the time when we were questioning you. What changed you when we talk about HRT, which on HRT is now different from before, or how much better it is now than before when we speak in such a transparent way. You were in the government, you and Mrs. Taritash. You didn't give us any information about how much the principal has to pay, so we insisted on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63994	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63995	My colleague, if I can on behalf of Anka the Dark-Taritash who isn't there, we weren't exactly I'm sorry, so we weren't exactly in that resistor, but that doesn't justify us, but if you were careful what I said, I didn't say it was yesterday, I said that this system of devasting public television was going on for a decade, that's what I was still saying on behalf of the club. [[There's, there's, there's.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63996	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63997	Yeah, well, she'd agree, maybe, if it had been all over for Director Radman, but let's just stick to the current situation. I would agree with you that the alternative to the subscription isn't good, right? That the subscription is important and that is because it is the only way to maintain public service and public well-being, to protect itself, but often in such requests, means that public service or public goods remain what it should be from this Liberarian side of the assembly gets criticism, you want a strong state, you want the state to feed on those funds that, in short, do not belong to it. It's important to answer that, right, and we always look at a picture of a country that protects the weakest people, that is, the working majority, and we don't look at it, and we shouldn't look at it from this perspective that we now have a party that's corrupt, convicted of corruption and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63998	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Highash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u63999	Thank you. I don't know who the Liberarians are in the Croatian Parliament, maybe not to insult someone, maybe a center or someone, it's the only one I see that the Liberarians are in the economic part, the HDZ I don't see in it, I won't even talk about it, and as far as you're concerned, it's basically all about governance, and what happens to you in the paradigm of libertarianism or that ultra liberalism that's happening? So, on purpose, some things that aren't, to say so arranged as they should, there's HRT, says now let's cancel the subscription or let's have no idea, privatize HEP. I'm a cartoonist. Why? And I think the state can also manage well public well-being, so it's a matter of governance, then you're easier to get into that main stream media, if that's not good, we need to privatize it all, it'll be better. It won't get any better. It'll be the same or worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64000	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64001	Dear colleague, here's when we talk about the subscription, the fact is that today more and more people don't even watch TV or even don't even have TV, so you don't have some formal way of charging them for the subscription. If, therefore, the financing of HRT was turned to another model through some kind of tax, which is already being collected by the state, it would be ensured that, in the future of HRT, there is some income in the situation or at this present time when they are actually more and more so-called. Streaming services on stage. Here's your comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64002	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64003	The models can always be discussed, this is a clean thing of modeling, whether it will be a direct subscription or that it will be tax tax, but I say that Croatian broadcasting as a national, cultural good, so it should be protected, and you can't protect it if you don't actually finance it. No one on commercial television, no matter what the law says or produce shows on Croatian content or, I have no idea, will have cameras from Lastov to Nedelisce, from Petrovski to Ilock, it is impossible and therefore should be protected, I say these models are absolutely a matter of discussion, is it a subscription, is it some kind of tax i.e. the tax on that can always be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64004	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64005	Dear colleague Hajdas Doncic, you pointed out that Croatian broadcasting should be public good and equal and attitude that we should keep this model HRT's subscription. Now the story has opened and the way it could be regulated. However, my question to you is. If we continue to oblige Croatian citizens that Croatian broadcasting from their subscription is an annual billion kuna and 200 million kuna, on the other hand, that Croatian broadcasting does not fulfil its basic and only public task, which is that it offers a programme for all regardless of their educational, age or purchasing power how to reconcile these two interests if you publicly raise funds from taxpayers and do not deliver a product that you are legally and on all occasions liable as a public service?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64006	Thank you. ... Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64007	... how it's now modeled in no way did you notice that well. [[You don't understand.]] So it can only be if there is one more time to repeat it means that there is something that the Parliament is therefore the owner, as a representative of the Croatian Radio Television in that case, which then gives the goals so that Croatian Radio Television should do, and the director or director who is again under the quotes of the Parliament confirms it. And with us there's a little bit of a crazy situation that he's actually doing what he's going to do and he's actually doing himself right. So what happens then means that people are unhappy about paying for something they're not looking at at all. So there are a large number of innovative solutions implemented by some European public televisions that, for example, allow citizens to vote on which series they will produce, which series they will buy, which is still for this archaic Croatian broadcasting system to emphasize precisely in the original "Spanish Village". Not Spanish, but Spanish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64008	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64009	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In this individual debate I will use and perhaps answer some of the things I didn't mention when I spoke on behalf of the club. I am sorry that the whole debate in the Croatian Parliament has come down to the fact that Croatian Radio Television is Šveb, Sutlic, Radman, I do not know who the director of Croatian Radio Television was. Croatian broadcasting is 2 thousand and 700 valuable employees, editors, editors, journalists, journalists who on TV and on radio we often forget in these discussions are working hard. And to work even better they need a better program and a better design than it was the one we've had so far. Therefore, in my presentation on behalf of the Club, I said salaries on Croatian television are very low. These are the people standing in the rain, the snow, the wind to catch what we're saying, mostly us and then we still have observations that we haven't been in the media enough, that it's HDZ's television. Here, just one comparison. For the last time, I was in the Croatian Democratic Community for 30 years, last time I was on Croatian Radio Television in 1990 while Gobac was still running one show, and yesterday I spent half an hour looking for a marble port because I didn't know where the marble port was on Croatian radio, and then I was able to find and perform my duty. So let's not make it easy to say these floscules how someone always influences these media, how the media is full of influence, how someone calls some editors and then tells them what they have to say. Here I'm courting myself that I'm a man who works a little bit in the media, so here's something I can say too much about it. But let's put it aside. Everyone has the right to say whatever they want. I'll just try some of the things to deny. One of these things, and you can listen, take YouTube 17th session of the Media Committee and there for about an hour and 55 minutes, and then you will see how the candidate that the Croatian Democratic Community with partners will propose for the principal is responding to the insinuations about the 2008 European Championship. You know that at that point, the director-in-chief of Television and Radio was elected by the chairman of the administration, it was the old law that was better when the Programme Council was responsible for the programme. Mr. Schwebb said. "The first condition was to be in the high HD resolution." HTV had no HD resolution at the time. So all the equipment, people had to rent themselves and he asked to be delivered. How much does all this cost Croatia's broadcasting, plus the right to pay both the World Handball Federation and the Croatian Handball Federation and offer twice the price of all competitors. He didn't get a calculation of how much it cost, and he had people he could call and they told him it cost a hell of a lot if you didn't. And he took all the blame and said I quit if I didn't do good to Croatian radio. The program council didn't accept his resignation. Read it, it's got it all in the records, it didn't accept his resignation. However, he leaves the Croatian Radio Television as an honorable and moral act which he thinks is absolutely fine. And where's he going? It goes into the world, and in this world it achieves top-notch results when it comes to digitization. No more without digital nothing. HRTs with this structure that it now has to come I don't know who without taking that step from HRT will never be an institution that will rank with other European services. Thus, Mr. Schweb clearly states in his programme that he wants to do so and has far the most experience of all candidates who have written the program without underestimating any program that has been written, and there have been really all kinds of them. Therefore, I believe that Croatian Radio Television will always be Croatian Television is just a question of who will manage a system called Croatian Radio Television. I think that right now Mr. Schweb has the best characteristics in this part of which I was talking about, which is the transformation of Croatian broadcasting into a real European public service, its international experience can essentially guarantee it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64010	Thank you, dear colleague Ivanovic. You have a whole series of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64011	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'll start with the competition. During the day, it was actually said that the competition was missing, that there was no link on Croatian defenders. However, I know that the law is older than the competition and whether it is omitted or accidentally or already how the law must be respected and that priority must be taken into account in employment when it comes to Croatian defenders. Here, in fact, it wants to deceive Croatian defenders that they are left out of the competition and that they cannot achieve an advantage which is not true. They must make an advantage of it and have an advantage regardless of what is not put into the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64012	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64013	Thank you very much. The meeting of the Media Committee was also attended by a man from the Croatian Defence Ministry, a state secretary who explained clearly. Except that it does not say that it calls for the Law on Croatian Defence is understood. However, it cannot be that the competition becomes invalid if it is not invited to that item. That's understood. But let's do it again. In the systematization of jobs on Croatian radio television, there is no job as head of Croatian Radio Television. It is appointed by the Croatian Parliament, and it signs a contract with Croatian Radio Television for five years. So it can't happen that we have two candidates with the same number of points that possibly the commission would assign. So it's a completely different way of choosing this function that's being chosen. Therefore, it is not broken, so no contest can be annulled. As a result, up to 30,000 kunas can be paid in violation. That's what the Croatian Defence Act says.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64014	Thank you very much. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64015	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is unacceptable for MPs to actually violate the Rules of Procedure in Article 14 which prescribes the rights and obligations of parliamentary representatives. We have a number of rights and obligations, but we have no right to deny Croatian laws whatever they think of them. I can think of a lot of things about the Law on Croatian Defence, but as a parliamentary representative, I should not be allowed to deny that law here. I'm asking you, Mr. Simicevic, would you at your school as headmaster of the former interpretation of what would happen to you in the contest to interpret him as you interpret him here today. He'd be canceled!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64016	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Voice. As you first know, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not, and you know it yourself. As Vice-President of the Parliament, you should know very well, therefore, that is why you are being warned. ... You can't react, that's how you reacted is a replica and you know it exactly. [[Sabina Vosovac's incursion, she doesn't understand.]] Okay. The next replica of the respected representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64017	Dear colleague, I welcome, therefore, your desire to digitally transform HRT into a public service, so you said you were looking for a man to do so. So, in fact, you yourself admit that in 2021, HRT is neither digital nor public service because it needs to be transformed into this. And now in your desire to find a man who would be suitable for that transformation or be a change for HRT you actually found the wrong man, you found a man who is continuity and not a change. So, he was an HRT employee, at the time he founded a company on the side of the company, there are two more, three more. So these companies today are doing millions of jobs with HRT, and that puts him in a position of conflict of interest with HTV itself and the position of HTV director left after eight months because he didn't like the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64018	I'm not a lawyer for any of the proposed candidates, nor is Mr. Schwebb, but I speak as a member of the board, and I actively participated, one of the few board members who participated in all the discussions. I just want to make things right. One of these is exactly the one you're talking about here. You're talking about millions of jobs with Croatian Radio Television. Would you be so kind as to bring these outs that are millions that Mr. Schwebb is with his company Robago, who's doing some graphics, I don't know what I read. If there is something we want to tell the Croatian public, let's be so correct that it makes some kind of argument and count the millions that are being stolen there. Let's not be on the street level. We are the highest body that can represent Croatian citizens and I allow everyone, absolutely everyone, to have their own argument that this one may not be, that it exists better. But give it to me when we talk about some things to make them true. Mr. Schwebb left the Croatian Radio Television alone, although the Programme Council did not accept his resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64019	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected MPs, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64020	Thank you very much. At the very beginning of your debate, you mentioned the fact that some other HRT employees are mentioned, that it is simply not good, that it does not give a good picture of HRT and I agree with you that it does not give a good picture of HRT. But let's make a little reference if you choose the one you've decided and we don't have any secrets and I hope you'll answer for that. My mom can have a catchphrase. I told you. Well, here's the opposition we're trying to tell you, but it reaches someone, but it doesn't. But we also had a recent issue of abuse on HRT that wasn't exactly harmless and where some of them were Mr. Bačić's first associates, who, from this day on, must be working elsewhere, and you shouldn't be surprised because we mention it in our debate, because if you're going to leave these associates to Mr. Schwebb, then you tied the balls around his legs and gave him the opportunity to drown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64021	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64022	Thank you for that, of course. One of the important topics, and I will remind you of one of the meetings of the Media Committee, were the letters of many employees who appeared to the Media Committee and me as a member, for sexual abuse, for some other mobings, and that, HDZ and most of the Media Committee have zero tolerance for such things, we will not discuss, at all, without any reason, that HDZ would protect anyone who has experienced any form of abuse, whether it is on HRT or in any other public, cultural or any other institution, so we absolutely agree. I don't think that's the measure, I support and well to talk about these things, and I'm sure the new director will, by coming to his place of honor, devote one piece to that, not one part, but most of it, and by suing journalists, we don't have any problems here or any open questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64023	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64024	Thank you very much. Coliga Ivanovic, here all day long we listen to criticism of the opposition to the results of the Law that was passed by the SDP in 2012. I remember that time, we begged the SDP then not to do what they did. We had the 2010 Law that allowed the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board to take the two-thirds majority, and there were members of the opposition, elected in the Parliament and the authorities to bring consensus and propose the director of HRT and the three-member administration. That way politics wasn't that much in it. Today, we're listening to the worst criticism from the SDP. Why? Because they did it when we begged them because their candidate at the time couldn't pass that two-thirds majority in those bodies, and that's why they changed the Law. When we asked them why, they said because we could do it. Because they were most of them. Today? Today we'd be editing the program, all in a row. Listen to them, all in a row. And an open and informative program and anything that doesn't suit them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64025	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64026	Thank you very much, dear colleague Boric. Not only was the Law passed in 2012 but there was no public debate, let's be honest and that's one thing. Yesterday, Minister Obuljen asked on this round table that we had with the press, with people who were relevant to this area and asked the Minister how she felt about these things. I'll pass on her words. She said she wanted to change the law in the term of this government, return it to the 2012 settings, explained why we haven't done it in the past 5 years, and that's the only right Mr. Boric. The Programme Council, the Supervisory Board, the two-thirds decision on who will be the head director of television, the head director of radio, these are the people we chose because we believe they know something about television, radio, media in general. And I don't think there's anything fairer than that, but that we've been here all day discussing something, and a good part of the MPs hasn't read any programs or other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64027	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, I mean, I understand the need to go back in this debate and go back to the past five years and that's justifiable, there were mistakes and that should be discussed openly. The problem, however, is that the last five, if not years in power, is not some other option, but HDZ. The Minister and HDZ in several programmes of their election had an amendment to that law, I think there was an opportunity to do so, and it was not done. So that's number one. Number two, Kazimir Bacic was on paper a better candidate than the one you now support. On paper. And I'm listening to the same debate the last time we picked him, and I really just want to say that what I'm afraid of is how it's gonna end. And finally, just very quickly, if some other government had made a mistake in the defense competition, which happened here, we know that tents would be everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64029	Thank you, dear representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64030	In part, your question to the replica was answered by the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash. What her mom said, I knew that was gonna happen. So now to discuss it is illusory, I don't have that magic ball that you're looking at, so you can see where any candidate is going to end up, the way he's going to end up. And another one may have to be denied for public reasons. The Media, Information and Information Committee of the Croatian Parliament has never accepted the 2019 Report of Kazimir Bačić. He didn't accept it, here's the vice president of the board, Mr. Pavic, let's say, there's still a day of dispute as many people who voted in favour of, against, the session wasn't recorded, but the report wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64031	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64032	Here's fellow Ivans, you don't have a magic ball, but the past teaches us something, and you're talking about everything, just not the key thing, the conflict of interest, and you haven't given any argument to it. You're talking about digitization, magic word, but she can't deny the facts, which is that HRT is digitized, that everything is on servers, that he has an archive that is public good, which can, therefore, get this information from HRT workers, when the archive and from 40 years ago, something that is analoguely wanted to broadcast, it's digitized, and then it's being broadcast, and it's going to be broadcast, and they're also quoting a colleague, or Mrs Mirjana Rakić, it's probably something in content. Well, we can't just talk about digitization, technology, which of course you're very often very pleased to do because when someone says digitization, we can then both corruption and conflict of interest forget everything. And you say no one mentions Radio. So you've got Dario Spelic's candidate from Radio, so you didn't want to pick him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64033	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64034	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Peovic, when I said digitization, I didn't mean to switch from analogue to digital. It has nothing to do with each other. I'm talking about digitization, which means dealing with competitors. That digitization is what I'm talking about. How are you going to respond to one Netflix platform that's taken up space today, they've taken an entire ether, how do you think they're going to respond? You must have a strategy to answer them. You have to have people who will know how to manage and look for ways to get to that. So it's not about moving from analogue to digital. When I say the word digitization, it has a much greater meaning. It switch something from tape to digital, it's not digitization. It's digitization. It is something else, and I am talking about this that the availability of the archives of Croatian broadcasting which is by the way and the national treasure is something quite different, and that little here writes in this programme how it is intended to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64035	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64036	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I'm going to use the saying our moms said I knew that would happen. Our Vice-President of the Parliament did not know that it would happen to him, that he would get a sharp criticism of the breach of the Rules of Procedure just because he well-intentioned MPs not to do any damage to the Rules of Procedure because they would lose the right to debate on this point, but here is the principle of our situation with individual opposition MPs. It is not worth it to you that you constantly highlight the quality of 25 years of work of candidate Robert Schwebb and his working quality and other proven in the country and abroad, because his only crime is that he is supported by HDZ, so the so-called principled opposition of ours, our parties have no problem joining together regardless of what they are ideologically different and they call it the principles for the benefit of Croatia, and HDZ when he has coalitions are then commercial principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64037	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64038	Yes, replacing the thesis of distinguished Croatian MPs is something that is national good. It doesn't seem very often. But what is important and what I sometimes don't understand, I may not be educated enough, but I don't understand that when the law makes it clear that the director-in-chief of Croatian broadcasting chooses most of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament why it is a problem. Why was that a problem maybe in 2012, when with 78 hands elected by another gentleman, I won't mention his name absolutely irrelevant? Why is it so controversial here? Why must opposition be united in order to prevent it? And that says, we have to respect the law and it says that we have to be 76 in order for someone, whether he's called Robert Schwebb or something else, I think there's an explicit problem here that he's called Robert Schwebb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64039	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, unlike yourself who said that you haven't actually been on Croatian TV for years, it is often heard here that part of the MPs object to editorial policy and that they can't visit, can't speak their own words. Well, here's the truth. There's a lot of MPs. And like this, when I look the other way from my colleague Miletic, my colleague Kekin, and... Let's say we were in the Open, and some were also on the Croatian Radio, which you rightly mentioned and which has an extraordinary program. [[You don't understand.]] There's... a show, so everyone has a chance to say what they have on behalf of their party. It's for me the way it's actually supposed to be done and I think it's just fine. Well, now I'm interested in what you think. ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64041	Honourable representative Rasdic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64042	Representative Grba Bujevic injured Article 238's disfavoration of MPs. It turns out that the indicators of objectivity, pluralism of Croatian radiotelevision, are that "the opposition point" is called opposition. Imagine the opposition representative some was in the "Opportionary Point" on Croatian Radio?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64043	Your Honor, you know this by yourself that it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but that it was actually a replica. You already have two warnings. You're getting a third. I'm taking away your... That's two. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. ... I'm sorry, obviously, the services aren't working properly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You get a second one then you get a warning. It's not a third. Therefore, the third is unfortunately taking away the words until the end of the debate if I hope you won't make it. Here you are, the esteemed representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64044	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, and this gesture of yours indicates that the HDZ is not as bad as the individuals want to show it. You've noted that fellow Members of the Crucifixion, this is not the third warning, it's the second one. If you were rigid, if you were the way they'd want us to be, we'd take his word. They would throw him out and he would no longer have the right to speak. And I think he has so much more to say for this pay phone. So I think it's okay and thank you for that. Yeah, the second one's a warning. I followed the warnings. It's not a third. As for Mrs. Grba Bujevic's colleague, I agree with that. Why do we impose it on each other in that part, and most of all on us? If HDZ had all the phone numbers, every HDZ first when it comes to HDZ then it gets all the phone numbers of all the editors on Croatian TV, on all the local media and then we just call and ring anyone and we say here I'd come to you, I've got a few things for... Don't call anyone else, it's just me, it's not true, it's not even close. [[the speaker doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64045	Dear Representative Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64046	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I would return a little to two concepts and to their clear explanation, i.e. demarcation, the meanings of digitisation and digital transformation. It's very important to understand the difference between these two concepts. So digitisation in terms of transition from analogue to digital and understanding of digital transformation as carrying with changes and as identifying the importance of non-linear media priorities. And the importance of placing information first and first on that platform on which the target audience will first find them, and in that sense I would like to return once again to candidate Schweb's programme, which is based on three important pillars among other staffs, so programme and, not digitalisation, but digital transformation. From which it is evident, ultimately, his professional experience in which he managed digital transformation into several international media houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64047	Thank you, dear representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64048	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, I believe the opposition MPs also know that I was talking about transformation, not digitization, switching analogues to digital. They're the only ones who think that yesterday we came out of the cave, that we still have the thongs here in front of the door and that we're going to go back to the cave, so let us also know a little bit about the digital transformation, that we know a little bit about the program, that we know a little bit about the experiences of other public services in the area of Europe, that you don't have the exclusive right to know everything, but here's something for us to hear, maybe we don't learn, so we hear, and so this. So digital transformation, that is the term that is the key for Croatian broadcasting to be a public service, the first best and most objective in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and of course the entire region, because let's be honest, they receive a signal from our transmitters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64049	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64050	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. So you're just starting to say that public television is not just about directors, that there's a number of employees, there's a science program and cultural as well as informative, but when it's reflected in Mr. Schwebb's program, we see that there are three pillars of his program, of which are real personnel. Where he believes it is necessary to invest in education, youth employment and wage policies. The second pillar is the program, and the third pillar is this digital transformation where it is very clear to say that it is not this digitisation that the opposition thinks about, but that it is also the development of digital products, platforms and the future. And Mr. Schweb, with 25 years of experience, working on Al Jazeer, while he was in London, the minister pointed out yesterday, worked on restructuring the BBC, obviously having experience and knowledge, there is no conflict of interest, and respect, as you explained, the Law on Croatian Defences, therefore there is no saying that we have violated the Law on Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64051	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64052	Thank you very much for this question. There were candidates for the head director of HRT who said they would fire 1,500 people in their programme. 1500. If only the HRT could have 1,500 people working, everyone else would have to go home. Mr. Schweb in his program, loved someone he, didn't like, I don't know, I saw this man for the first time in an interview, I read his program, he said that all people, and there are 2 780 of them on Croatian radio, give everyone a chance to be educated, to school and to do what HRT should be doing by new systems of work. So I think some people here are better at some international experience, they're afraid of something that man has learned in the world, he's applied it to some who are better at this point than we are, and we're afraid we're not good at it. Well, I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64053	The replica of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64054	Dear fellow Ivanovic, clearly, loudly, you argued that in your debate you had killed all the the thesis that we heard today, more or less, here and colleague Glavasevic confirmed what we had just said in the debate, that his government, in their time, had brought one poor model of choice, non-transparent, director, and more so as this director was, allegedly, leaked the news, that his code name in KOS was Labrador. We never found out what the height of his salary is and when we talk about this united opposition on this side and those bees that buzzed here on Thursday and thus interrupted the session of the Parliament, simply any argument that you have made or which we can say here will not work, they will simply remain as they were after that pay phone and will continue to buzz like bees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64055	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64056	Thank you very much, dear representative Klaric. Yeah, I don't think anyone's interested in this debate anymore. That shows the number of MPs sitting in this House. In fact, as soon as someone looked into the magic ball and saw that it would be Mr. Schweb or Mr. Špelić or Rajkovic or any candidate, here it all ended. It doesn't matter what we're talking about public service here anymore, it absolutely doesn't matter. As we see him, and we are responsible, we choose the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television, we, okay. We're more than you, because we're most, but nobody's interested in it. We are spinning here two thesis, from the early morning and about the program, about Croatian Radio, about programs that, dramaticly, any, educationalally, ultimately, peoplely, I come from the people and I believe that Croatian broadcasting does not promote enough national culture and that will be my condition to tell Mr. Schwebb, you are working on it, as head director. Lika, Dalmatia, Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, this is our treasure, this is all over. So let's just focus on this and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64057	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Mario Kapulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64058	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are here as an introductory contribution to sticking to the Rules of Procedure as a "drunk of the Board" so that, as it is the favorite postman of colleagues. ... I don't know what you're replicating, but good work with your colleagues, Hasanbegovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I call on colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community or the Croatian Democratic Community Club not to replicate my presentation because I believe it is not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, that replicas are used to replicate representatives from other political parties and other political clubs in order to point out political disagreement with what they have said. The Croatian Democratic Community, I think, should say, and that we should all do this and express our gratitude to all those who have submitted to the Croatian Radio Television Director's competition. There's been a lot of candidates. Attach all your references and work programmes. They were ready to answer our questions in front of the committee responsible. They showed the will to advance the work of this public service, and that was enough for us. We've studied all the programs. We talked to all the candidates and made our proposal. Today, in this high house, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to support the conclusion of the Committee on Information and Information and Media and to choose Robert Schweb as the person with 20 years of work experience, who knows what the organisation of the multimedia character is and what it takes for Croatia to provide better conditions for its employees and for users to have better quality public service. In his program, Mr. Schweb has shown that he is aware of the need to give HTVs a stronger incentive to the creative industry, and I think that's very important. He announced that management of human potentials will introduce modern principles, attract experts and media-recognizable people in the creation of management style and will include absolutely all employees and associates in creating management style and I think it is important and that what is important for HTVs should be important for us as representatives. We have decided to propose a candidate who wrote in his program and that the necessary changes on HTV will lead gradually with the involvement of everyone in their planning that will be able to stop the drain of quality personnel. That's what almost all the candidates have warned about. Making good business results that we talked a little bit about, hardly at all. Give all employees more opportunities to self-prove. I think it's good for every organization and every house, and especially for Croatian broadcasting. Introduce better work processes and ensure that public television does not lose the battle with time and new challenges. And we're proposing him because of his program and of course we'll hold his word. The important point of disqualifying this candidate is that colleagues in the towers have long before we heard it in the Croatian Democratic Community Club heard that it will be supported by the parliamentary majority. That this is an important point of disqualification also shows that this claim is repeated on several occasions both at this session and at the Committee meetings almost from the very moment when the public became known names of those who applied to this competition. That is why I have proposed to the Assembly Committee that we open the debate in the direction of another candidate. He was gone. Comrade Matula, though, suggested at one of our gatherings one candidate who had not received a single vote at the time. And in the end, he got two. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64059	Thank you. We do, thank you very much, fellow Capula. We have a few replicas. Dear MPs Vidovic Kristo is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64060	You have violently secured Croatia's revenues through the Executive Law, and through HRT and the Council for Electronic Media. This, however, is distributed by the Council to various media, and of course these media should not report negatively on your ruling set. Due to these corruption methods in Austria, this is due to a much smaller volume than what is in Croatia, the office there had to step down, and some media employees were arrested. Are you aware of how much damage you do to Croatia, not only to Croatia today, but to Croatian development through the corruption of the media?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64061	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64062	This wasn't a question. This was a statement full of disqualification, calling for corruption, for I don't even know how to comment on these completely missed thesis. I do not understand, the Croatian Democratic Community has mastered the media and does not allow anyone in the media to write against it and to point to anything problematic about HDZ. If it's anything, then there's nothing... currently in Croatia as far away from the truth as possible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: colleagues Kristo not from the scene.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64063	Mr. Chairman, if a colleague wishes, I can clarify the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64064	Please don't leave the place, I'm asking you nicely. There is a way to react and a way to function in this House. Dear Representative Nino Rasdic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64065	Dear Representative Kapulica, I have raised my line at the same time that you mentioned the Rules of Procedure in a half-joint tone, and you have violated articles 51, 16 and so the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has made the decision that he has made and that is why we are talking about this today. So I wouldn't joke with the Rules of Procedure or even paraphrasing another Tito. You speak of 25 years of experience of candidates. Are you referring to 2008 and the ninth when he failed to carry out the order given to him and when HRT lost the right to transfer the handball championship, and the RTL with which he later cooperated and earned money? I find it strange that you invite HDZ people, so you think you're thinking the same thing, that I can't give you replicas and that there can't be at least nuances in your opinion. Finally, a photo published by Telegram's portal half an hour ago, where the editor-in-chief of the information service is setting up the frame for Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement. So I wonder if he had a powder and a nose and a chin and a tie?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64066	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64067	Dear colleague Rasdic, first of all, I've never joked with the Rules of Procedure. I mentioned the constant invitation of fellow Hasanbegovic to stick to the Rules of Procedure as a drunk plate, which is his favorite post-it. I apologize if I have thus made an impression of a non-serious representative and an unserious relationship to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you that the Rules of Procedure should stick to it. I am just as my colleague Kuzmanic said at the meeting of the disputed committee as we discussed, I was not aware that we had violated the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't him either. He then stated in the debate now that we can rightly decide there is no doubt that we will make such a decision or such a decision. So, I thought the same thing as him that we have the right to decide. I get it if someone thinks I did it knowingly I'm saying I didn't and I wouldn't do it. I've never reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Parliament knowing it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64068	Thank you very much. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64069	I really can't figure out how you could say that here you are proposing to the Croatian Parliament to support your candidate. What Croatian Parliament? For you, the Croatian Parliament is one of the despised institutions. You only recognise the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament. There is no opposition club or independent representative from the ranks of the opposition that agrees with your proposal. And why doesn't she agree? Well, because he hasn't even been elected in accordance with the procedures of the law and the Rules of Procedure. Your candidate has been elected somewhere in the HDZ premises, and this is evidenced among other things by a fact that has not been removed in this new attempt to convene a meeting of the Media Committee as much as your vote has been deposited before the candidate on that parliamentary committee was even known. If it's not a symptom of a corrupt, corrupt, corrupt competition, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64070	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Maria Kapulice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64071	Dear colleagues, I really appreciate you and appreciate you. I don't know what kind of voice depositation you're talking about. That didn't happen. That didn't happen, no. Just as it didn't happen that we in some room in HDZ secretly counciled past this Parliament and agreed on what we were going to do and how we were going to do. But I accept your thesis that everything you say is evidence and that I should what? Play a video of an empty room in HDZ to prove to you that when you say that we were in that composition that you're imputing that it was, that it wasn't there. And I apologize for inviting you to support the candidate. I thought you might think about it since you didn't have another candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64072	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64073	Dear colleague, how do you interpret that then everyone, if HDZ didn't know, everyone else in the state knew about HRT in all the halls who was future director of HRT. As they knew, and HDZ no one from HDZ knew except apparently the minister. And the second question, so here's a little bit sooner to remove the suspicion that here's your candidate having millions of business dealings with HRT. I invite him to the Supervisory Board to publish in a transparent manner what are the contracts that Mr. Schwebb's companies have with HRT and what are the values. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64074	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64075	So I'll repeat that I find it difficult for you to accept anything, which I would now say contrary to this claim of yours as it was known. We also heard I deposited the signature at least I didn't do it for some candidate I didn't know was a candidate yet. But I knew there were 13 candidates when all the members of the Media Committee knew, and I expected Krešimir Ćosic, a young man, in 1973, to complete the Faculty of Philosophy with a number of professional trainings that someone might suggest him. Gordana Grandov, an experienced manager with a focus of expertise, i.e. on financial business, resource management, structure, optimization of a corporate organisation, that you might suggest it. Marija Kraljević, a young degree in electrical engineering, head of EU-funded projects, an auditor of a quality management system that one might suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64076	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64077	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, we are parliamentary democracy, we have been elected and the people have chosen us. So in this House, every vote should be worth the same. However, from the opposition's ranks, we actually have such signals that our voice is worth less. We had a contest, 15 candidates came forward. The Committee has proposed, in the opinion of the Committee, the best candidate. Do you see anything that's controversial? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64078	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64079	I don't see anything controversial. I think it's a legitimate right of opposition to try to make an impression and a political impression that what they're saying has more weight than what most in the Parliament say. That's normal. I think our parliamentary system and democracy certainly do not exclude such efforts and attempts, and whose voice we will see when the vote comes. Therefore, I have no doubt that the candidate proposed by the Information and Media Committee will receive the necessary majority in the Croatian Parliament and that Croatian broadcasting at this sensitive moment when, and this is what the opposition pointed out as soon as possible, it will have its leader. That's why, we were even called to make it difficult with the contest, not to call it in time. We've called it in as soon as possible, conducted the procedure we need, and tomorrow we'll decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64080	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64081	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, through all the discussions on all the committees that have been held so far, it has actually been the impression that the opposition was not important here, nor were the candidates more important than this is evident from the fact that none of the 13 righted candidates have actually proposed, and I believe or read the programmes except We can who have proposed candidate Špelic, of course, with the observation that he is not their candidate, but will stand behind him. And that's not the first time. So, the opposition when it doesn't have a constructive proposal, then it can only be against it. Remember, that's not just the case with HRT. Remember all the current crises from the shipyard, Agrokora, the covid of the crisis, the earthquakes, the floods. When there's nothing to offer, when the ratings drop, then the target doesn't choose the means even if it's the performance of the other day. The most important thing is to draw attention to the opposition and draw some cheap political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64082	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64083	So here's the deal. Of course, the responsibility, even in this case, and in important matters related to the Croatian state lies with those in the position of the authorities. We have heard from colleagues of the Rasputic that those who make this decision tomorrow in the Parliament are responsible. We've also heard his statement of denial from the responsibility he's depositing for the future. With similar statements of denial of responsibility, practically the whole of Croatia is beautiful. And every time we're in front of a decision, so the opposition and the good and the right say you're responsible, we're not responsible, or we won't be responsible for what the Parliament or the Government decide, and that's fine. But that's why we won't give up making decisions and not propose to this House and vote tomorrow on the candidate we've proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64084	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64085	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Kapulica, candidate Schwebb's programme is particularly general, not specific, and his oral appearance in front of the live board was one of the worst. Let's not kid ourselves. He was embarrassed by himself. The press commented that he must have heard that he's still working on all these affairs won't work. That's all true. You're talking about his steering style. Well, he brought in Hlorko Novak Srzic, whose management style we know of. She's got journalism under every human dignity, let alone professional dignity. So what? Will they stick us under Katarina Perišić Čakarun, under Stipić, under Bruno Kovacevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64086	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64087	I assume you've read the candidate program we're talking about since you haven't discussed it at any of these sessions in the form of socializing, or in the form of official media sessions. You mentioned, though, that your candidate, Špelic, has the best program. It's okay. Unfortunately, you have failed to convince your colleagues of the opposition. Mr. Spelic, who you personally encouraged to run for office, received two votes on that committee. I can't at least in this part of HDZ can't bear responsibility for your candidate getting two votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64088	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64089	Thank you. I'm interested in the fact that you pointed out keeping quality personnel as your candidate's priority, would you invite him to withdraw the lawsuits that HRT filed against his journalists? And do you think that this would be appropriate given that your previous candidate, who you voted four years ago and then called him the best solution to censorship and silence, filed lawsuits to the extent that HRT had received a shameful nomination for the shamefully blind European award. It's the only European they got in those four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64090	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64091	You have never heard of colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community or any Croatian state institution for which HDZ is responsible for calling for a lawsuit against journalists. On the contrary, you could and I believe you followed the call that it did not. Therefore, no problem if you ask me, I can now tell you that I think you should call against the press not to press charges. I can't, of course, speak so widely right now because I don't even get into the core of the problem but it's not good. It certainly is not good for journalists to face charges because it interferes with their quality work and what they are in charge of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64092	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64093	I thank the chairman. I will begin shortly with my colleague Bedekovic's answer, who said that we had a performance day that was caused by the opposition. So the performance did not challenge the opposition, but you did actually challenge you members of the majority, members of a political organisation legally convicted of corruption because you made a number of mistakes in this entire election process of HRT directors. So we wanted to, and we managed to prevent, or produce, these errors in the procedure of the document. Let me talk to you about the status quo on HRT. Today as I said what HRT should be, it should be a public service at the service of all citizens of the Republic, not what today is the extended hand of the ruling and ruling parties. So HRT must not be the prey of any party. That HRT today is a mere government bulletin we saw last week. So on the day the Supreme Court reached a verdict on the Fimi-media affair, the most important political shows on HRT almost did not report at all. Let's remember the open night. So it was actually just a distraction. Until yesterday, Director-General Kazimir Bačić, who came out of the prison today, we replaced him not because he brought HRT to the lowest possible branches but here he ended his career as director by taking him out here in the Parliament because he ended up in a prison of investigation for corruption. The HRT programme today has been contaminated by revisionist outbursts. The HRT's information programme is called the government's newsletter. We had an affair of sexual harassment whose epilogue is still unknown, and in fact, the employee who reported this sexual harassment left HRT, she quit. The embarrassing lawsuits that have been referred to here against journalists and publishers, which are why Croatia is a common topic of European and international organisations that monitor the state of freedom of the media. Press protests in 2019. So nothing was enough for the Minister of Resorship to replace Kazimir Bačić and his associates and so we replaced him in this assembly because he was wearing bribes to Milan Bandic. I'd like to say a little bit about the subscription this was talking about. So should we cancel or not subscribe? HRT today has 2800 employees, a budget of 1.3 billion kuna. The profit in 2020 was €67 million which was twice as much as in 2019 while the comparisons worked in private television such as New TV in this period of income increased, i.e. the profits increased. Croatian citizens pay a subscription of 80 kuna. A while ago, Bruno Kovacevic quoted me as saying, "We would have done wonders with a monthly fee of 96 kuna." So there are little billions and 300 million kunas, and they already need to do some kind of miracle. I already told citizens in the meeting once at the director's shift that it should actually be abolished because Croatian citizens are burdened with taxes and taxes from which this public service can then be financed. HRT should be deeply reorganised, rationalised and then such public service should be financed from existing taxes and revenues of the state. So, change the HRT Act that you're all yelling at. In 2012, the SDP's government changed it. Since then, you've had enough time and years to change it, but to this day nothing. So I need to remove the policy from the public service and establish an independent body that will control its work. Here are some examples of how they do it in other countries. Sweden has moved to tax financing since 1.1.2019. In the Czech Republic, it is now proposed to cancel the subscription. Public television is financed from a fixed VAT percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64094	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64095	Here's my colleague, Puljak, you've called Minister Obliterate that she has not replaced Director Kazimir Bačić. Therefore, the resolution ministers do not set up or replace the directors of Croatian Radio Television and I hope that these amendments to the Law on HRT which you have now encouraged and ask not to go in that direction. Therefore, Croatian broadcasting does not work in a way that the resolution ministers determine the directors. That is exactly what we do, or we will do after this debate in the Croatian Parliament. And as for the performance as you called it, so the political actions of the opposition, I would say so, which you did to prevent the opening of the debate that we have today. That's where you should be careful because it'll turn out that you didn't lead to performance but HDZ, so that you're just dancing as HDZ plays, and judging by the public's reactions, I think you've done everything...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64096	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64097	So, a respected colleague, so we have not prevented the debate, but we have prevented this procedure from selecting a director who was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the laws to bring it after such a poor procedure, after being misimplemented to say the performance of the Media Committee, that such a proposal should come to the Assembly. If we hadn't done that, there wouldn't have been a meeting or a session of the Committee on Statutes and Rules of Procedure, there wouldn't have been a new session of the board if it had been all right, we wouldn't have rebelled, we wouldn't have stopped Parliament's work. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64098	Dear Representative Zeljko, I'm sorry. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64099	All right, all right. I just wanted to say about the shift of the former principal. So it was supposed to be replaced in the Parliament here, so by the procedures for all of that, the situation in which the HRT brought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64100	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64101	Your Honor, I don't know if you've been following the situation closely on HRT and whether you've been following up on Mr. Bačić. However, the ruling majority should have replaced Mr Bačić in late 2019 or early 2020 because Mr Bacic failed to perform the tasks set out in the Law on HRT. Among other things, the Director is obliged to propose to the Programme Council of HRT Work Programmes, the Programme Council should adopt the programme and thereafter publish the programme. I don't know if you're aware of why we have such a bad program? The HRT programme for 2020 and 2021 does not exist. And that's why Mr. Bacic was supposed to be removed a year and a half ago. But no one was doing anything. And even when we mentioned it on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, it was said no matter what, silence. And it says in the law. So he doesn't respect the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64102	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64103	Here, I absolutely agree with you. Another argument as to why Mr. Bačić should have been removed long ago, and here we replaced him because he ended up in an investigative prison because he was carrying bags to Milan Bandic. Now he's back from today, that action you remember before "From Fax to Work" is now called "From Remetinco to Work". Because Mr. Bačić is here today coming back to work in his former position, so before the principal. And here I hear there's a story going around on HRT if anyone's got a bag to throw at him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64104	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64105	Dear colleagues, I didn't mean to rephrase it, but since you've already called me in your debate, then I'll still have to answer you. Namely, you said I characterised your performance the other day as a performance. Yeah, yeah. It was a performance that, by my personal judgment, you actually did yourself a bear favor. It was a performance during which you unplannedly united the opposition or you thought that you had united it and of course got the leader of the opposition to Mr. Grmoy who actually imposed himself on you as the main screenwriter. On the other hand, you have a colleague, Zekanovic, who said this morning that he does not want to participate in the circus. Then on the third hand you have some other colleagues who say no, not the Grmoya leader of the opposition, we were there first. Personally, I was still too mild and I used the word performance, that I would say the performance that you did yourself a bear service and the people were looking at it and they knew who you trusted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64106	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64107	So I can imagine how sick you felt when all those people really came out for a pay phone and stopped the debate. Well, it may have been fun for you, but here's the opposition really united over one thing, united about defending the procedure and the Rules of Procedure and the Law because it's important So the opposition united that moment and will unite every time the interest of citizens is ahead of some of our differences. [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't leave the scene!]] There's a lot of things we don't agree on, a lot of things we discuss, a lot of things we replicate about each other, and you saw it very hard the other day and you spoke very hard. But about this, yes, and we were spontaneously united because this was the right way. Do not allow the majority of the members of the corruption-convicted organization here to carry out illegal decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64108	Thank you. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Thank you very much. Don't break the Rules of Procedure. I mean, we have time, please! Let's all stick to time. I'm asking you nicely both in replicas and in performances, please, let's stick to time. There's plenty of him. We can tell you everything we need to know. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64109	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The election of the director of HRT is always a good topic for discussion in this House, it has always been and is today. It marks what we thought would be marked by a conflict of opposition and authority that had its own in front of the prime minister or intro Thursday night, and here we were expecting the real force of that opposition today. But nothing, bad. In the morning, everyone got into a fight and now they don't know how to reunite. What happened? Well, what we expected would happen Thursday, that the opposition would remember what it did once when it was power. But she forgot. This is the general amnesia especially of the SDP we asked in 2012 not to do what they did with this law, we prayed here. You know what they said? We've got most of it, we can do it, and we'll do it. They introduced what we have today in law a public tender for director of HRT. By then, we have heard more than once today the Programme Council, composed of representatives of elected representatives in the Assembly and by the opposition and by the ruling committee of the Supervisory Board of Two-thirds, elected the three-member board of the HRT and was part of our negotiations on EU accession, part of the negotiations. They ran it over to score Thursday. Mr. Grbin, who was the leader of the majority then in the Parliament, was not president of the club, but led all the legal activities to adopt laws, to be part of that circus here at the invitation of Mr. Grumoja, to show what he thought of that law he voted. Of course he was against it. Why? Because it went wrong even when they made that same law. And then they chose a man that couldn't go through that 2/3 majority, so they put in a public tender. And the law is the same. And then today. Then why was he rolling? Why isn't it good today? Because the opposition has its candidate, if you've heard, they do. It's just that they have one mantra, we lose the election, and they're always ruling and making decisions because they're laughing, they can do it. What's true for us, we've heard of conflict interest, only for HDZ. Always. And for HDZ members. It's not worth the conflict of interest to them. counterpart Oreskovic said if her colleague has a conflict of interest it is nothing wrong. The man who's still running, he hasn't been elected. That's what President Milanovic told them, what they're protesting here on Thursday night, so no one's chosen, I put it politically and so. No shame at all. And today we are discussing a man who has already been pre-determined, not by the Committee for Conflict of Interest, but by politicians that is in conflict of interest, because he knows how to do something through public media. So that story I'm telling the finale we have on Thursday. When there's just a festival of kidnapped Rules of Procedure that Mr. Rasdic keeps high on his chest here, which Mr. Nikola Grumoja warms up as some kind of boiler of opposition energy here is putting them all together, you stand there, you stand there, you'll be nicer, we're together, we're destroying something. What did they bring down? They took down their own image of themselves on that same occasion. And today they apologize all morning that they're not guilty of anything, that it would all be, but if there was a little procedure, we hadn't adopted the agenda. Okay, then we can undo a few more committees if we want to, if that's what's most important. Yeah, okay, procedure, repeat three times if you need to. And what do we have today? Today we have the story of what bothers them the most, they care about public television, they want to edit an information program. You heard their argument that night before the gathering here. How can it be the subject, if I think it should be the subject of this. How in the diary can it be the first word, if I think it's supposed to be this one. Did you hear that from one of us? Never. But they do, they do everything, and it's censorship all the time. And today when this transmission is running, that HRT 4 is transmitting, that you tell them everything you think about them working there, that it's censorship again. It will probably be censorship because it is the only debate they are interested in, they care about the issue of agriculture, the sea, I don't know, Good morning Croatia or any other, just an information programme. Where they are visiting and there are always 5 of them compared to one of the ruling opposition on any show or 2, at least 3 times higher and they are always censored. Editors don't work, directors don't work. And the opposition that's wrong, nobody's right. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64110	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, one of the respected representatives of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64111	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague of mine who was on the board, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has solved it. However, I do not understand why, during the entire debate today, this thing is constantly repeating itself that is no longer the subject of this debate. There should be a debate here about the candidate and the program, but the fact is that we haven't heard about the program, about the candidate, but only the negation of everything that exists. I'd like you to comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64112	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64113	Thank you, dear colleague Simičević, so we heard the negation of everything and those who are the loudest, who stood as politicians on that HRT. The Rasdic family, they are the top critics of the HRT now, even though they were during a director who was not good for them now. It's probably not gonna be after this director anymore, either, because you've entered the space of politics. They're not your same positions anymore, but they'd still edit because that's all they know. I'm saying, what's the highest representative of the MOST here, you're expecting an intellectual debate on HRT. What are they doing? They're gathering here and saying you're not going to argue, we're holding a pay phone, and then there's that festival where I say kidnapped Rules of Procedure where everyone's saying, everyone's thinking, we let the people watch us see what we have on the side of that same opposition. Let's be happy to say, but the procedures are clear and the procedures have been carried out by this candidate and tomorrow they'll get support probably and we'll go...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64114	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64115	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Boris, I think you've noticed this well after this festival of democracy from this taken Rules of Procedure and everything has no opposition. Here I don't see the leader of the opposition to the bush who brought them together, there is no Mr. Grbin, I guess Mr. Hajdukovic has now become head of opposition this 32 of them has almost no one. We can do just fine when the best man appoints the director of the Srebrenica, but the standard procedure where it's a good practice that the Committee of Conflict of Interest has 30 more days to put all your obligations in order before handing over the property card, that's what they don't know, but in the end this candidate with experience and work on both the BBC and Al Jazeera, and it's all a real candidate for digital transformation, but we haven't heard anything about the program and the candidate, and here there are no objections, there are as many as 6, 7, 8 in the assembly, it's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64116	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64117	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, I personally expected here 74 individual discussions, over 200 replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure and the continued struggle of the united opposition. Nikola Grmoya became leader of the opposition. He also subdued Peju Grbin and Mrs Bencic and Mrs Oreshkovic, all of them. A little bit of his sovereigns got kidnapped up there in that corner. And that's a fact. He's the lead boiler boy and their negative energy from that evil workshop that needs to leave a picture of this assembly in a negative perceptional section towards citizens that we're all not, we're not.../incomprehensible/... there are also some colleagues who have joined us on the side like that, but they didn't feel comfortable, they knew what they were doing. And today's discussion of what he's saying? It's another conflict of interest. When you tell them that someone as your leader loses the election in a conflict of interest they say stay, it's great, it's great, it's only worth it to you. It's you, it's those standards and the values for which one stands. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64118	The following is the debate of the respected representative, or the replica of the respected representative Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64119	I'll try it briefly. So, it's better there's five, six opposition MPs who think for themselves than all of you together who can only think with your own boss's head. If we're talking about whether he's here There was an election in accordance with the law and procedure, no, no, no, it wasn't here nor the law, nor the procedure led to this candidate being discussed. [[Please don't come from the bench, please.]] The candidate won the party. And if we're talking about what you've won in the election, you haven't won the election, you've taken those elections with only 16% of the 4 votes of the total constituency. And if anyone's picture melts through these discussions, then it's an image of Andrej Plenkovic. See just what the article says today among other articles on the Telegram.hr portal. It's the public service we're discussing right now. Digitalized, of course, is how different. This debate has not shown that there is some leader of the opposition There is opposition, loud and clear... [[Intruder: Dear Representative Boric.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64120	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64121	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues Oreskovic are these double criteria, hypocrisy to you who participated in this festival of kidnapped Rules of Procedure here, which you finally saw after what was happening. And you say that's a party decision says and forgets automatically that one day you were brought here to the assembly to vote on Mrs. Oreshkovic as a candidate for the chairman of the commission or as head of the Committee of Conflict of Interest of the same party. And they choose her, we oppose her, we have already opposed her, we have seen political ambitions in you, and you have judged only members of the HDZ. And today they forget they did it, then they say we didn't, I wasn't party-elected, I was elected to the Croatian Assembly. These are all others of this majority, then it's party. These are the criteria and the citizens need to see it. And those 0.008% you got in Zagreb or in all other parts They're talking. As much as you're worth. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64122	Honorable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has been hurt by his colleague, Boris?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64123	The 236th injured Boris, but you injured the chairman, so you took away a few seconds from me, and you did not warn the complete HDZ who horned as I speak. So don't take the session the right way. And, Mr. Fighter, when I was elected, it seems to me that there were over 80, 82 votes. which means there were HDZ votes in those votes [[Intruder: No HDZ.]] And that's the key difference. [[We were out, we were out.]] One thing was to force itself on the basis of its own members, and it's one thing to choose someone in the Croatian Parliament with votes of opposition representatives. [[Intruder: Honored Representatives Oreshkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64124	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, as you were first listening then you would have heard that I was quite sure to say that please do not speak from the bench, from the place and that I said so. Secondly, this is a third reminder to you, and then, in the order of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear representative, honourable representative Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64125	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, Boric, was most impressed by this part of your debate where you spoke about amnesia. Amnesia must be the monster of the 21st century, and I must say that sometimes, sometimes it touches me here, I confess, but can you explain to me who hasn't yet been so affected by it, who is now actually the leader of the united opposition. I was here too, I thought it was Nikola, then it turned out to be Matko, then someone said it was someone else, so here's what I'm curious about, who's basically now to discover that secret, and you as a shareholder of that part might be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64126	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64127	Although the issue is a bit unusual considering the debate on HRT. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64128	I, by the way, apropo the whole thing, I'm begging you, back on the subject. Often, we've talked about everything outside the subject or most of it off topic, so this is also off topic. This one we talked about about programs, we talked about the past, about everything together, and then you can answer that, but I'm asking all of you and all of the following speakers, we're talking about the subject, and the subject is the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the head director of HRT. Excuse me, I've taken the time, please, now you can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64129	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Kolega Ivanovic, leader of the opposition, is Mr. Nikola Grmoja as the main boilereer and their energy. So he warms up to the strongest and then they gather, he deploys them, he hunts them under the elbows, and they all dance together. That's it. Those who offer to be leaders are left in the shadows. And those citizens had a chance to watch for about an hour and more. So there are no more doubts on both the left and the far right and not the center and the far left means they don't care too much about it I say. Like this law they made, so he gave the result. Today is the result of choosing by that law, there is no other. Now that we choose, they say we don't want it. We want someone else. And Mrs. Mrak, who's raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, she voted in favour of that law, today she's not doing well. When we told them that the law would reach them, they didn't do well, that's what it was about. So citizens have a chance to see who's standing on their line And who's running away from their... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64130	You've used your time. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of the bush. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64131	Article 238 was injured, I see how much you mention me to my colleague Boric that the warmth I produce as a boilereer attracts you, and also attracts Prime Minister Plenkovic who has some kind of sexual illusions, but as Miletic told you, you are not interesting to us, nor are you interesting to the Croatian people. So, as much as there is this attraction and I see you being drawn by that warmth that I I'm shining. [[I don't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64132	Thank you very much, you haven't even mentioned the Rules of Procedure you get Not you. [[I did, I did.]] this one, but in any case you get the basis of Article 240(2) of the notice by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. [[I did, I did.]] Honorable representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64133	Thank you very much. I refer to Article 238 where a representative is to speak on the subject under discussion, is not subject to discussion. The Honorable representative spoke about how I voted in the Government in 2012, it would have been much better if he had talked about why the Minister of Resort since 2016 so far has not changed the law, why you have not shown that you are good, democratic and everything else. That would be the real theme of speech, not about how I voted in 2012 Thank you very much, when I wasn't a minister yet. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64134	Comrade Dark Taritash, what you've been saying has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64135	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64136	If it's okay with you, that's why you get a warning. Uh, the esteemed representative Petyr has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64137	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You told your colleague Boric that in the election of the director of HRT some inappropriate appearances prevailed here in the assembly, from sitting on the floor, blocking the pay phone, not using arguments that would be rather expected from the MPs, so you rightly said that such a message violates the already damaged image in the eyes of the public when it comes to the work of the Croatian Parliament. But it continued today by saying that he had no need to hug others here because it was simply not his style. He was attacked by representatives of the other opposition party that he was ignorant and offended by further different inappropriate words. Can you tell me if then such a debate as we are witnessing in fact both last week and today? contributes to a positive picture of the work of the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64138	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64139	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr, this debate will help us choose a candidate, but we wanted to send clear messages. The first is that we disagree with their opinion on the results of the law passed by the SDP and that it cannot be as bad as they say because it was very valuable to them. Let's remember in 2012, he remembers 40 editors in one night, 40. Let's remember to shut down shows like the Open, two years you couldn't get on the show, it wasn't, it was just shut down. Not to talk about all the other information shows. And what could the opposition say then? Nothing, you couldn't have been anywhere. I was a member of the opposition never on that television you almost couldn't get there, you didn't. It's a very different thing today, but they still don't like it. Why? Because the message is quite the other way around, that we should forget everything that's happened, respect their candidate, that he's the best and that everything else is wrong. Well, it's not like that. And we're here to say we're doing what we're supposed to do and we have to choose the director of HRT. And what's he gonna do? [[Thank you very much.]] It's up to him to realize his program that he showed us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64140	The next debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64141	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have now heard a very inspired debate that I would like to look back on. First of all, I am very pleased that HDZ is dealing with who is the leader of the opposition. It doesn't matter if he has an opposition to the leader, it's important that he has the opposition, and he has it. And every time she does, she'll be united when you ecldently violate the procedure. And democracy is exactly what it is. Procedure. If some of you are not able to even appear on the board to deposit a voice that is a note of good unwritten practice, not a business one. And then you tell us about the kidnapped Rules of Procedure. And what can I talk to you about? Maybe 14.6 million you need to pay back if we're going to talk about kidnapping, if you're not taking the procedure. So if we were to talk about the bottom cheek, then perhaps some colleagues who were behind this speaker would be standing in the picture next to the definition of that expression in Klaic's dictionary. But the good quad of a facet hunts non-species like the old Latina said or if you need a translation of what's allowed Jupiter's not allowed ox. So just when this fellow Boris who was behind this speaker said when he was at HRT, I didn't have time to Google him and show him in this mandate where there was such a censorship of opposition that he dominated that HRT fellow colleagues and colleagues. I couldn't come to the HRT that I was from the ruling, he was constantly. And then the HRT was party television, now it's suddenly become very, very wide, now it's become a television that respects everything, now it's probably become a role model in the world. And that's why I'm telling you, this is where the BBC was mentioned, and the BBC was founded on yesterday 1922 with an acrylic that today should run public information services, says inform, educate, entertain. HRT is the only thing that can be entertained with this kind of editorial policy and this kind of base, and not in that positive sense. The only thing a HRT information program can take down is a remote control when you're looking for it to switch to another channel. And I'll tell you why? Because the BBC, which is state-owned, has seriously destroyed governments, prime ministers, and has done what responsible journalism should do. There are a lot of wonderful people on HRT who do great work, but editorial policy, management policy is something else. You had a chance to read the testimony of the very people who worked on HRT, who said they left there because they were ashamed. So I didn't invent them, not a united opposition invented them, not by Nikola Grmoya, and pushed them, but by the people themselves, they came and said. And then you object to an opposition that has no other mechanisms but to come out here and physically prevent you from having a debate on a decision that has not been conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What were we supposed to do? Let it go, write water management. I wonder if the debate would have taken place, and we didn't stop it, so I'm sure they would have voted on the appointment Friday and eaten the wolf's donkeys, nothing happened, you'd have challenged it in administrative courts, or don't, we don't care. But something happened, just the opposite. And now we can discuss the wrong choice both by myself and from the Social Democrats Club, you are told why it is a wrong choice, but at least the procedure is respected. That minimum democracy is respected. Until we learn that democracy is a procedure, you will have an opposition that obstructs because another mechanism simply does not exist. And those qualifications from my colleagues when I hear they're getting us that we've been dancing on a pleasure bike or something like that, I don't know how they're not ashamed. Those who step on Croatian law and Rules of Procedure tell us to dance in a pleasure car. Well, no, gentlemen, you're dancing a pleasure car under Croatian laws and by the Rules of Procedure. Step on what we brought. And at the end of the question to all your colleagues and colleagues on the right, you were six years old, so I guess at six years you're able to write a new law if this one's so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64142	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64143	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, so you know that drinking fairy tale upside down, now she's been drinking backwards. So, the problem is that the opposition stopped and said no, don't break the laws, don't break the Constitution, don't break the Rules of Procedure, do the right thing, and then come into the debate. So, the problem is that the opposition has stopped, but it's not a problem that two committee sessions have made decisions against everything I've said. My colleague Hajdukovic and I were, so tell me a little bit, maybe it's a good thing I didn't see it. Who was that dancing, who was hugging and who was that fellow Grmoya heating up? I didn't see it, but it might have been me with the glasses, that I took off my glasses, or at that very moment I wasn't there, but obviously there was something interesting that I missed, so here's a chance for you to tell me what it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64144	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64145	Thank you very much. Well, colleague, just before I answer your question, let me ask myself, so HDZ is in office 2011. - 2015 was against everything, if we had said that the sky was blue, they would have been against it. So nothing was right, and on the other hand nothing, 90% changed when they sat in chairs on Mark's square on the opposite side of the Ban Court. As for the other night, that fellow I remember, Nikola Grmoya lined us up here, said Anka you'd be there, Domagoj, no, no, Domagoj you come closer because you've got this bright suit, you know that looks nice on TV. That's how Nikola Grmoya lined us up, that's what he said, listen, now we're going to protest because if I could warm you up with my energy, I don't know what. So, I think it's tragic for me to talk about such qualifications. He who has not seen that it is an ecldent violation and the destruction of democracy, and that is what Nicola saw, both you and me and everyone who has been here, is blind next to a healthy eye.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64146	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64147	In my discussion on the board, I suggested one thing that might solve all the problems, which is that the director is appointed for 6 months, and since the ruling majority argues that the law is not right, that we change it within those 6 months and that the new director is elected under the new law. However, it was not accepted. I don't know why it wasn't accepted. They claim it wasn't enough even six years to change that law. We heard last time on a round table that there was a lot of work. Since you are already a representative of the 3rd term, if I am mistaken, you know at what rate the laws are passed, I ask your attitude and your thinking, is it enough 6 years to pass a new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64148	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64149	Thank you very much, colleague, so I think you've actually answered yourself. I would also reject your proposal, six months isn't enough, six years isn't enough, not six months. Because here I'll repeat that we on this side of the assembly then said that the sky is blue, this part of the assembly would be against it. As an opposition, we are not ashamed and we do not hesitate to support anything that we think is good, no matter who suggested it, even by ruling. If it's a step forward, why don't we support it. Philosophy is completely different from this side. Because you see all these laws that were on the most fierce criticism of this side of the assembly while she was in opposition, none of them have been changed, and six years have passed by a colleague. I understand there's a lot of work to do here, you know, so we've been preside over the Union, so here we are, running the state, so we don't get to write the laws. Six years a colleague is a very short time if you want to change something for the better. Because here's what the SDP government or some other government has brought that is wrong, but when we need to bring it in, we don't have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64150	Replica of Honored Representative Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm kind of always under the impression that you're a peacemaker, and now you're saying there's been no other way but to block a physical pay phone. I can't agree with that because if I remember correctly on Tuesday, there was a press session that you argued, a debate was scheduled Thursday afternoon. From Tuesday to Thursday, I think it could reach out to the business instruments and also request the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure or make a complaint that you believe that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I believe that in the same way we would get an answer like that and later after the board had delivered the answer that this session had to be annulled and organized new, so I'd say that maybe you ran a little before the ore, I don't know what the reason is, so here, if you can explain that, why didn't you use business opportunities related to that point?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64152	Before you answer, my colleague Miletic, I saw well, and you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, which is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64153	Yes, dear academic Rainer, you know that I do not quite reach for the breach of Rules of Procedure, 238, my colleague Petir is false because my colleague Rasudiæ asked for a written statement on the board because the injured were all procedures and processes, so it is not true that the opposition and our colleague Rasudiæ specifically did not do everything he could in his legitimate frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64154	My colleague Miletic, I strongly advise you to read the Rules of Procedure, although there is a lot of talk about the Rules of Procedure, says very clearly in the Rules of Procedure what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That someone is telling the truth or lying, and unfortunately it's not up to me to evaluate it and it's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure because if it were a violation of the Rules of Procedure lying in this House, believe me, the situation would be pretty dangerous. But therefore, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must give you a warning. Now, the respected representative Hajdukovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64155	Thank you, academic Rainer. As in most cases, I agree with you that this is an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, indeed one part of the assembly would be very quiet but let it go aside, so fellow Miletic told you, the opposition or parts of the opposition were misused by business opportunities, but no matter what part of you decided to hold the debate and when the committee met, he would meet or not, eat the donkey wolf and the finished thing. So, unfortunately, some things in Croatia work. After Thursday, the Committee on Business, the Constitution and the political system that I was on, I heard a debate on it, it was a whole other song, but I'm afraid that by then we didn't do what we did Thursday night, which I honestly didn't want to do because I'm a legalist, but that's why, I'm afraid it would never happen, and we wouldn't be discussing today, but it would already be a final thing, as it is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64156	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by honourable representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64157	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that the decision on who will be the headmaster is being made by the Parliament. The Parliament is a legislative body and I think that at the very least all our citizens and fellow citizens expect the Parliament to respect the laws and sublaws. Since we have repeatedly noted that this tender has been contaminated, it would be fair and correct of the ruling majority if tomorrow's director hadn't been elected. I'll explain why. If the tender says that a confirmation is needed that the candidate is not in conflict of interest, then the confirmation should be that he is not in conflict of interest and not that he will not be in conflict of interest. If a certificate was to be accepted indicating that the candidate would not be in conflict of interest, then such confirmation should not be sought but should have been written in the tender that at the time of entry into office, the candidate should not be in conflict of interest. And the problem would be solved. That was the first mistake, the first guff to be made by the supervisory board, let's not forget that the supervisory board voted most of them in the parliament, meaning colleagues from HDZ. Another problem we have pointed out is that some candidates have been eliminated because they have not been recognised by documents that have been recognised by other candidates. So that's another stain. We pointed out that, but it was said again, no, everything's fine. And the third problem that I think is, in fact, the biggest problem is that, when we talked to the candidate, we heard from his mouth that he got fired from HRT because he didn't listen to his superiors and didn't report for a handball contest. And at the same time, he had a contract with the television that got that transmission. And that's not good. So, the moment he didn't apply for a tender, he was actually in conflict of interest. He was working on HRT and he had a contract with another TV and we made that clear. As regards the first proposal or the first problem with this certificate, I asked the committee a few days ago what would have happened if, with confirmation of impunity, the candidate had made a statement that the rehabilitation of the criminal offence would have come to him two days after the expiry of the tender, would that file have been taken into consideration or not? If not, then it should not have been taken into consideration either this documentation because man is currently in conflict of interest. I'm not going to talk about Mr. Bačić, I'm not going to talk about the problems I've already mentioned, but just to remind you of one thing, which is that nothing was done at the end of 2019, not even in early 2020 when Mr. Bačić failed to submit the program on HRT's work, and we're all wondering why our program is bad. Here we heard on the Committee on Information, Information and Media something about the HRT programme, we heard on the round table something about the HRT programme, especially on the Fourth Programme, by employees of HRT who criticise it, who disagree with such a programme, who disagree with such an editorial policy. If we don't listen to the voice of the profession, the voice of the expert, so whose voice shall we listen to? It's not a good approach, and we have to change it. I said a moment ago, I suggested that the director be appointed to six months. and change the law. If the ruling majority thinks that the law is not valid, why, for the second time in the same law, do we choose the director in their term of office when they are in the majority? Let's change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64158	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64159	My friend, I'm going to ask you a question. Is Mr. Spelic, who was run by the Green-left bloc, a member of the HRT Supervisory Board? Could someone at the same time be a member of the supervisory board and director of the HRT? I ask that since I have no objection to this candidacy at all these board meetings, and I have not heard it in this Croatian Assembly either. So, as possible, is he now in conflict of interest, I'm talking about Mr. Spelic or would he be in conflict of interest in case he remains a member of the Supervisory Board and let's say he was elected director of HRT? Here, just explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64160	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64161	Representative Capula, if something wasn't clear, I'll do it again. If you wanted the Director to establish that he was not in conflict of interest at the time of his office, then it should have been written in the contest that at the time of his entry into office, the candidate should not be in conflict of interest. Since a confirmation has been requested that it is not in conflict of interest, it is now,... He's currently in conflict of interest, so he can't get confirmation that he's not in a conflict of interest. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So what I said and on the board, I confirmed here, and right now he's confirming that he's not in a conflict of interest he can't win. [[Intruder Reiner: Next...]] He himself said there was no confirmation, but that all rights would be given to others and that they would not be in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64162	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64163	Dear colleague Pavic, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I just wanted to look back on this idea of yours to six months. I know you've come out of the SDP and that now every law the SDP government has passed you want to object to, but under that law we're currently working on. The minister cited the very change of the law, the loudest one under that law was sitting in the government, Mr. Hajdas Doncic and Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, Mr. Glavasevic was an assistant, I believe you were a member then, so I'm confused with the opposition,... Mrs. Glasovac did not respect the defenders, the Law on Defence and is a conflict of interest, you see him where he is, Mr. Grmoja is your leader, so I think I'm a little confused but the citizens will probably know from what's true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64164	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64165	Dear Representative Marko Pavić. First of all, let me inform you, I didn't leave the SDP, I did a lot of work in the SDP, I did good work, I did quality work, and I won't leave if I get kicked out, I get kicked out. But I'm not going out on my own. Furthermore, I told the board, I don't care who passed the law, whether Sanader brought it, whether Milanovic brought it, whether it was brought by the SDP government or the HDZ government. If the law doesn't work, we have to change it. If it were in the Transport Act that red could be passed, would you change that law? Probably would, but you're not changing this, so why don't you change it, where's the problem? You've had six years to change it, and now we've given it to you again, here, the idea is there, let's temporarily, let's change the law for six months and choose the right man, meanwhile Mr. Spelic can deprive his businesses and all conflicts of interest, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64166	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64167	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Pavić, you've been there, we have no reason not to trust you more about the candidates or candidates we're discussing today said more or less what others have said but they're amazing discussions on this side of the assembly that can be summed up in the one you know of folk, do you believe me or believe your eyes or in this case your ears? So I can't believe that someone can defend such a candidate who's ecldently in conflict of interest, who's going to transfer everything to a commercial, pardon law firm, so there's... No more, I'm not in conflict of interest, I'm working with HRT and my God. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I find it very hard to believe in the credibility of such a team more of the ones they say and now they repeat to us repeatedly that the law is wrong and six years I can't change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64168	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64169	Yes, here's our colleague Arsen Bauk told Mrs. Bedekovic every time they mentioned a law that was potentially not good and was brought by the SDP government, that they would get an answer but none ended with a court epilogue and never should have paid the penalty, so here I was just quoting it to be clearer. As far as you mentioned this program that we discussed on the board, Mr. Kapulica was on that board, we heard very little about the programs, there were more presentations of our representatives and our colleagues who were on the committee than there were on the candidates. That's the truth. And we've heard little about what's going to happen and what's going to happen. You can listen to the tone record, I've asked the question of what's waiting for us, who he's thinking of doing it with, not just him, but the others, whether he has a consensus, whether he has co-workers to do it with. Others worked a little differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64170	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64171	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Pavić, you spoke of a conflict of interest and now I'm interested in him since we were all some kind of local officials, state officials, etc. and there is a time when you come to duty and a time in which you must resolve a potential incompatible duty, i.e. a possible conflict of interest, whether it's a business relationship or something. So that time exists. Why only at this point does it mean to the director, to the future director, it is a difficult circumstance because by voting he will become the director and is immediately in conflict of interest, according to you, while everyone else must resolve it in some time periods. How do you interpret that? That only one man in the Republic of Croatia responds because in a conflict of interest at the time of the vote, while all others who pass the election process are not? And as for the payment, I believe you paid that 2009 fine, i.e. I believe you've paid if you're not still paying. Since you say you never paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64172	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64173	I don't know what kind of flowers you're talking about here, that there was something to pay, I really don't know, and as far as conflict of interest is concerned, so let me do it again. So if we wanted to, or if the Supervisory Board wanted any candidate to confirm that he wasn't in conflict of interest, at the moment he took office, it should have been written like that. However, the tender states that a confirmation is required that it is not in conflict of interest now...... Now, so he can't get that confirmation and the gentleman himself on the board said I am currently in conflict of interest but I won't be. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So the man said it himself, those are his words, we can listen to the video maybe not those words, but the man said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64174	Honorable representative Petyr. ... /Invade Pavić: Ask the gentleman where he said it./ [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64175	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Pavić, here is your debate, but in fact, most of the debates have come down to the procedure and as we are aware of ourselves as representatives and the general public, it might be more constructive to discuss the candidates' programmes themselves, what they are offering to make HRT truly a public service that will perform a multi-functional role. I am interested in the fact that you have been vice-president of the Media Committee, have you discussed these mistakes that you consider to have been procedurally done, warned as vice-president of the Media Committee and discussed on the Media Committee these important topics, such as the programmes of these 13 candidates for HRT Director-General, what reforms they offer, and whether these programmes are realistic for their mandate?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64176	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64177	As far as observations and suggestions related to the competition are concerned, that was all said. It may not have been said of me because others beat me to it, I did not want to repeat myself, or I did not want to repeat others who spoke about it, but that was said. So we've turned our attention to the problems that exist in the competition, and we've called on the lady or the gentleman who's the chairman of the Supervisory Board, but the gentleman hasn't shown up, so he sent his replacement, so the lady didn't know much of the answers to those questions that we asked. Our colleague called to study the paperwork in detail, pointed to problems, didn't know the answer. So we've turned our attention to a lot of problems but it's simply not accepted or voted whether it's a problem or not. Of course, most have voted that these are not problems. As far as the program is concerned, we talked about them as much as we could in 20 minutes, but I have to tell you, the least we could do was talk about the programs, at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64178	Thank you. Dear Representative Bojan Glavasevic will now be the next speaker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. HDZ has shown consistency in several things throughout its history. For example, they indicated that the party's leader's change was either by dying or being kicked out of the party. Mr. Plenkovic might have to imagine something about that. HDZ has also shown consistency in avoiding responsibility for its mistakes, so it is also in this debate, on the day the news is published in the media that Kazimir Bačić is once again wandering the halls of Prisavia, I don't know, probably in search of someone who is willing to look into his eyes and return his greetings, HDZ flees from the fact that they have put Kazimir Bačić in that place, that they have just defended him in all his marifeluks and that they have just replaced the HRT Supervisory Board at the head with Anja Šovagović Depot selected the note from their quota because it warned against irregularities in the work of Kazimir Bačić and his adjectives on HRT. So we wouldn't even be in a situation where today we find that HDZ was able to listen to everything the opposition said about Kazimir Bacic at the time he was first elected. I know because I was there when it happened. I'm not talking about it. It was already known that Kazimir Bacic was the choice of HDZ not because of qualifications but because of similarity and obedience. They just got a little screwed up because it was a nice lamb sucking two mothers and this other one, Milan Bandic, was obviously more fond of HDZ. Repetio's six mother foolorum, showing an old classic joke. Mr. Schwebb is a HDZ candidate because he's decent not because he's the best. There's a few arguments for that. The first and most important fact is that Kazimir Bačić's successor began talking about him a few months ago before his programme, which his HDZ counterpart Ivanovic referred to, was written on. Clearly, ruling already had his other qualities in mind at that time. Another argument lies in the fact that if we are already talking about the program, another candidate had an incomparably better quality program. That's Mr. Spelic. The programme was operationalised with short, medium and long-term objectives, transformation and recovery measures for HRT and time frames for their implementation. If any of you don't believe me, just read both programs and compare them, I am. Finally, HDZ was willing to rape the procedure and Parliament's Rules of Procedure and then common sense to push his man into the position of chief director. Here's Nacional writes that Mr. Schweb has been to meetings in the government several times and is calling for more sources from HDZ, your colleagues and colleagues. Why is the candidate for HRT Director-General auditioning in the government, colleagues and colleagues? Except to kneel and kiss the hand of the one whose vase agrees to be. He could draw another more obvious comparison here, but, well, he doesn't want to insult the memory of one of Marlon Brand's best roles. We have warned you that Kazimir Bacic is a bad candidate and we warn you that Mr. Schweb is also a bad candidate. He will not fix the situation on HRT, but is now burdened with conflicts of interest which cannot be resolved, he is burdened with a contaminated process of choice, why you are guilty again and he is burdened with the fact that if you really choose, the whole of Croatia will know that he is not chosen because of the expertise which, by the way, I do not dispute him, but because of obedience and similarity. These are the mortgages you put on his shoulders and you put them on yourself for completely incomprehensible reasons. What you're doing, you're doing for the benefit of your damage, and it wouldn't be any harm to me if it weren't for the damage of HRT and the money of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the same time. Because of all this, I can tell you the same thing I told Kazimir Bačić at the time, you may do what you want right now, but you won't be able to do as long as you want. You can think about what you want. or But you know very well that I have an unpleasant habit for you, I think, to be right. [[I'm sorry, I interrupted you too soon.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64180	Excuse me one more time. Since this is how you took a speech break, I thought you were done. Yeah, he's fine, he's fine. [[Attack Glavasevic: This is my drama performance, Vice President of the Parliament, drama break, for the impression.]] Replication of the respected representative of Kapulice [[Intruder Glavasevic: To sit just like that message.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64181	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Glavasevic, you know when you're making an argument and you're stating the reasons why people should make your conclusion right, then be careful not to slip. So, you just declared our former President Tomislav Karamark dead because he wasn't expelled from the party, you said that every HDZ president was expelled or dead, so first. You're a little disbalanced compared to the truth. And secondly, what if we had listened to you in some previous situations, I wouldn't comment on it, but I'll tell you what you were saying about what you were pointing at and how better it would have been if we'd listened to you. But I'll tell you what would have happened if we'd listened to you now. It wouldn't mean HRT, you wouldn't have a director because of all these candidates I agree to have very high-quality, I've studied all their and their résumés and programs, you didn't suggest anyone. You didn't support anyone, you didn't talk about anyone at all, and most of the time you didn't ask them anything. So when there was an opportunity to ask them. So, I don't think we made a mistake this time, maybe... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64182	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64183	Thank you. I'm glad, here with my colleague Capulco to talk, but like this, I thank you for the correction regarding Mr. Karamark, I really have little to admit that I've been executed in your party conflicts, sometimes they're more complex, so don't mind me but thank you for the correction, mea maxima culpa. As for other things, look, first of all, I couldn't question candidates and candidates since I was no longer a member of the Media Committee, I was in the previous assembly of this Parliament and when I was a member of that committee, believe me that I took advantage of that opportunity and that obligation every time the situation sought it. But I think colleagues and colleagues who are now on the Media Committee have also taken advantage of it. However, look, you should have changed the Law on HRT because you have been talking about it for years, in several election programs HRT states. Your culture minister is already wearing it, she could have changed the law a long time ago and we wouldn't have been in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64184	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative, Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64185	... Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic in Dnevnik took a picture, which was in a tone of more than 50% of the daily journals that lasted 37 minutes. After he appeared in five contributions, he followed an interview with the prime minister for 16 minutes, and it was neither the first nor the last time. A lot of HTV journals look like this. This testimony has been published on the pages of the HND, only one of the many examples of how public service works, which, with the method of constant promotion of the prime minister, is often used and the method of censorship. But we don't really have to read the examples on the pages of the HND, it's enough just to turn the HRT on and open your eyes. For example, last week on the day when the HDZ was handed a powerful verdict on corruption, the most important Croatian political talk show talked about the situation in Kosovo and the day after it decided to make a possible show dedicated to the state of opposition. However, the minister in charge is confident: I do not agree that the situation is catastrophic. There are a number of problems on HRT, however, business data say the situation is good. I am sorry that the debate again, instead of focusing on the candidates and their programmes, went in a completely different direction, biding on some non-existent conflicts of interest and spic to the candidates. So, the competent minister besides asking us to trust her, not with our own eyes and ears when it comes to the quality and impartiality of the program, is also asking us to trust her, not with our own common sense when there is an apparent conflict of interest of the HDZ candidate. And this insistence to trust HDZs and HDZs, not their own brains, is the basic traditional value of HDZ. Well, let's remind ourselves. I'm ordering from here to all of Croatia, who are serving impious acts, today thieves, thieves and criminals and those who give and receive bribes will no longer sleep peacefully and that is a determined message from here in Cibona, dear friends. The hall was delirium, Ivo Sanader at the pay phone, and among the fans and some who are sitting here these days among us. These same enthusiasms welcome the words of the new president, the procedures that move for the mandates of our governments mean only one thing, this is the time of reckoning with corruption. The same one for corruption always prepared HDZ four years ago voted Kazimir Bačić as HRT director. At that time, respected HDZ deputies spoke of Kazimir Bacic as the best solution, and in the meantime, the best solution twice fired its editor and president of HND, Hrvojo Zovka, who talked about censorship in the programme. In addition, the best solution for writing about censorship on HRT has sent more than 30 media and journalists to the court and eventually, the best solution ended in an investigative prison for, guess, corruption. On the other hand, the new best solution will be, in all likelihood, a man who is co-owner of a private company that has been operating with HRT for decades and who could become a competition for public television in the luxuriant business of sports transmissions. So, the new best solution is to have an eclectic and permanent conflict of interest. I think this is the right place and the right time for me to quote a journalist and writer who has never been silent for 30 years and who has been talking about HDZ's crimes, and he says, "Since he sat down at the prime minister's office, Andrej Plenkovic has been uncompromisingly fighting corruption and corruption is booming uncompromisingly. Cleaning HDZ from corruption is like going surgically to remove cancer from cancer, flow is the main feature of the system. As the corrupt frames swell, Kazimir Bačić, so the corrupt frames reach. In this way, creative crime is permanently reflected in the atmosphere, or at the same time fighting a constant battle against corruption. The important thing is that it's circulating. Since sitting on the prime minister's post, Andrej Plenkovic has been uncompromisingly fighting corruption, and corruption is uncompromisingly booming. Just because it is impossible, the mission is inevitable." Unsurpassed Viktor Ivancic described perfectly what we are looking at in this election, which is how HDZ keeps corrupt, sorry, traditional values.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64186	The next debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no question that tomorrow morning the director of Croatian Radio Television will be elected because it has been decided in the office of the Minister of Culture, Nina Obulen, and all of this has been blessed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and it has been known for some time. However, regardless of this, we as the SDP Club will insist, or we will propose tomorrow that one lock be adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which is that the Croatian Parliament invites the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television to file a lawsuit against Croatian Radio Television Journalists on behalf of Croatian Radio Television as its first move at the place of the newly elected director against the Croatian Radio Television Journalist and for alleged violations of the reputation of Croatian Radio Television, former Director-in-Office Kazimir Bačić. We also expect this same proposal to support the conclusion. So much more so that Mr. Kapulica is here in response to one replica, when he had a question aimed precisely in this direction that he saw nothing controversial about why this new director, that we should actually do this, and we were already looking for this and when, now, the former director became former, we know why and when he was appointed a new v.d. Director. However, this whole story, which tomorrow will culminated in the domination of the majority over the parliamentary minority, does not mean that the congregation minority is wrong. The first fact, not an impression, is the fact that the entire selection process of directors in this Croatian Parliament is deeply contaminated. First, because in the competition itself he did not respect another Law that applies to many other places, it is the Law on Croatian defenders. We can think here whatever we want about this Law, but while the Law is what it is, it should be respected. Because of the non-compliance with the same law, about 40 competitions in the Republic of Croatia were annulled sometime after it was voted here in the Assembly, and I personally and my Club were against that part of the Law at the time. Secondly, the fact is also that this whole process of convening the Committee, the violence against the whole procedure was something that was absolutely unnecessary and today replace the thesis in such a way that here the opposition committed some kind of violence against the speaker, over the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentism is simply not true. You, dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, should actually be grateful to the opposition, because this is how she prevented you from implementing and passing a law in a procedure that can be annulled. This is how it was supposed to be cancelled, only the conclusion of a session of the Committee, and in which case an assembly of the Croatian Parliament, which would be precedent, should be annulled, I think, in the history of this Croatian Parliament. We're not asking you to thank us for that, but at least don't replace the thesis in your spin. Thirdly, when we talk about candidates for directors to me is an absolutely amazing fact, I mean, I don't even get into the expertise of the candidate you're proposing, I wonder what that man needs, but it's amazing to me that of all 13 candidates you've decided to encourage and support a candidate who's the only one who hasn't submitted part of the tender documentation, and that's a statement of no conflict of interest, amazing. Which means that the contest was not respected, but we have already seen it at the Council for Electronic Media, when awarding concessions, incomplete or part of false documentation, nothing to anyone. Now this reminds me of this one humorous, humorous little clip, which I don't know how long ago you've been driving a tube, produced in a neighboring country, talking about the fate of a tent clerk named Micah the killer. She was driving people crazy, FT1P, you're missing another piece of paper. So she talked about meeting a small man with bureaucracy wherever the service is going to look in the countries of the region, and even in Croatia, he's always missing another piece of paper, and that's the fate of our Croatian people, but when we have competitions, the laws in which it's prescribed what should be the tender documentation, then that one paper is not at all a problem for HDZ, even though it's equitably breaking the law, it's a matter of procedure, thus throwing a shadow at candidates who may be okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64188	Thank you, dear representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64189	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Sabina and the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. You're an experienced politician and you've been sitting here in Parliament for a long time and you know that a good part of what you've put out cannot be measured and valued equally. To mention 40 principals of elementary schools and this case which was absolutely not here, we discussed this on the Media Committee, this is also discussed by the man who came, whom we called from the Croatian Defence Ministry. Secondly, the Committee president apologized this morning for the procedural mistakes she made, not intentionally, not knowingly but unconsciously, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system said theirs. And third, tell me. Which confirmation and from which body should the candidate be brought, if not by the public notary, because he cannot be in conflict of interest while he is a candidate, he may be in conflict of interest when he becomes what he is. How to get him the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest to confirm when he wasn't elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64190	Thank you very much. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64191	Thank you very much. Every single one of us who responded to the job, any job competition, had to bring some kind of confirmation of impunity, no post-festum, but at that point when we're candidates to meet, and also some degree to show that we meet the conditions of the competition. The competition made it very clear that part of the tender documentation was a statement of no conflict of interest. Whether or not that part of the tender documentation was in the candidate, it was not. And he's the only one who didn't hand it over. Secondly, I cannot distinguish between any public or state institutions when we talk about the application of the Law on Croatian Defence. I will remind you that for this very reason, the Theatre Council has annulled the competition for the Croatian National Theatre, and it should have been in this case. It's just that, the law exists, now they don't need that grand interpretation, you're going to ask someone at the table, you're the defender, if you are, you'll get the advantage. So what does that mean? The next step is to ask me if I have a college degree, I don't have to give any confirmation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64192	Thank you very much, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64193	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have been here all day to discuss the director of Croatian Radio Television and would like somehow to bring his vision, his view of all this. I'm sorry that, here, by ruling there have reacted a lot, although I understand them, from their position diphimist towards gathering a position, because I think that based on all honesty and I don't care when one foundation, that habitat that makes us and when we feel injustice, I'm telling you now what I feel, what's in my heart. So, I don't care who's next to me, if we're fighting for honesty, if there's no freedom and if there's no honesty, then what am I supposed to build my life on, that's why I'm building my own country, where I'm building my own house, my family, if I'm not faithful in my family, how can I get my own kids and talk about something if I don't live. And that's why it's weird, maybe it's not common in Parliament, that's where I'd agree, maybe it's not common, but we've seen it as some desperate way to show that it's enough, that the water has come across the throat. Croatian television, which is the meaning of television at all, is now not going to talk at all, I worked in high school when I asked my graduates who watched TV, since I was 32 students, no one raised a hand. Because they are all, of course, on NET, eating, therefore, you tubes are watching, so no one is watching television, and Croatian television is in such difficulty that it is probably never going to recover because it is not going well, and on the other hand you have no atmosphere, you have to create an atmosphere where someone would come to work, burn for some idea, feel belonging. How can someone feel their belongings, when they're giving out to journalists, how can someone feel their belongings when they're driving people out of that house, how can someone feel their belongings when they feel the injustice at every turn? There's no sense of belonging, no one wants to burn for anything. And we're having a hard time. Let's not close our eyes in front of them. Where you're wrong, I too, to understand each other, so everyone, there's no one without sin who makes mistakes, admits, forgive me, I've made a mistake, we move on, we move forward, if it's criminal, then he's responsible for his sins. But this is amazing where the ruling eyes close, so conflict of interest is the lobby of any corruption and now we have a man who obviously has his own companies, and we will appoint him, or you will, we will not in opposition safely, for the head of HRT, and he will what, do against his companies that will transfer ownership to just some others. So I can't believe you didn't have a better man. Among all people, so by profession, amongst, well, that's just logical to me, logically, it doesn't seem to be, at all, at all. Here I have another question for you, I don't know if it's true, right now, so, but I got it from people who work on Croatian TV saying this, ask the ruling Marine, is it true that Bačić was returned to the place of technique, so to work in technique, to the 14th coefficient, at the salary of about 15,000 kuna per month without transportation and a warm meal. I personally don't care about pathetics, but one cameraman, ton master and journalist, who was in Banovina all day, his coefficient was 3-6%, and we who were there ten days, 15 days after the earthquake, slept there with people in that mud well know what the difficulty was, and at the end of that month I got twice the salary of those people. Well, then I don't get it, which means you mess up, and we're gonna get you caught, 'cause that's how it works. So, I'd make my own dad, that's what I was saying from this place, my bishop, I don't respect you, man, if you're not honest, be honest with me, that's the first thing. What's it worth to me to have a Pope if he's dishonest? What it's worth to me to have anyone if he's not honest, so that honesty is the basis of everything. We can build everything on that, and if there's no honesty, then there's nothing. Croatian journalistic society and the Croatian Journalists' Union have launched HRT action for all, not just them. I call on the Croatian public, let them look, there people write by name and last name, what insults, what blackmails, what bad situations on Croatian television and then really this HRT looks like a sinking Titanic, the orchestra plays nice and flowers in my company, and what sinks, we close our eyes and everything is fine. It saddens such behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64194	Stay here for a moment, Your Honor, we have a replica of the esteemed MPs of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64195	Just a little... You said we'd see how the private business of the future director of HRT would actually be spilled to his leadership, at the head of the institution. [[the speaker doesn't understand]] We don't know that, it'll show time, but what he could do, stop a hack of journalists, persecute journalists. And I hope, here I don't know what your position is about this proposal of conclusion to suspend all complaints against journalists, because look, if Croatian citizens give a billion and 200 million kunas a year to Croatia, whether they watch their programme or not, and another 100 million kuna is from advertising Croatia's revenues, it is not normal for taxpayers, majority, to be persecuted by journalists who point to censorship or not to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64196	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64197	My colleagues. I'm a small politician, I just got into politics, I've been here a year, and I'm gonna tell you something, so in my life, I'm only holding on to people who are criticizing me. So when someone comes to me and starts, how are you doing this, how, like, right now, I move people like that, why, I'm not going to be able to grow with them, but I can only do something wrong. So, because they're with me because they think that I could do something somewhere, so they don't know me, because if they know me, they know that my own mother, my neighbor, don't talk to me anymore because she called me and asked if you could call this, I said I don't talk to you anymore, it's over, because you insulted me, where you ask me. Well, it's not me, what's wrong with you, man. So I think journalists must be free, they must criticise, they must write, they must bring the truth to the Croatian public. I don't like it sometimes, and what to do, so the truth is true. It always disintegrates everything and brings everything out in the open. The truth is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64198	Sir, the next hearing is Mr. William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64199	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is quite amazing that you have decided, but only a few days after the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Corruption in the media for the corruption of the media, for the Fimi-media affair, after all that you have done the session, two people do not come, not thinking about the quorum, I even understand that you were here and that you have gone somewhere, so that, as you call it a good custom in the Green-Left bloc, you thought it was a good practice, it's a bad way to run and even a way of working on committees, which we have spoken of several times and the intention to change the Rules of Procedure. But you've done it very, very badly, very sleekly, counting on how it's going to go, not counting on this, not counting on what happened on Thursday, and you're not counting on this either, you're not counting on it today, but it's absolutely amazing that the entire critical public is telling you about that Schwebb being involved in these conflicts of interest, so that's 20 years on the wallpaper, so that's what they're telling you, but really all the critical media, journalists, are writing about it to you in the last few days. They've written before, but it really turned out that they knew exactly what it was going to be, and that it would eventually be because you don't have a better candidate to actually do the program. Well, you know that, and your minister knows best. If you didn't have such a candidate and with this status now that you have before this verdict a few days ago, you can't talk anyone out of credibility or talk him into reporting for such a responsible function, but actually under your political patronage. You don't have people like that anymore. Candidate Schweb may be a good candidate to report for public procurement and offer some of his digital products, digital content, perhaps. I'm not sure that domestic, second, younger, more agile in that sense would beat him, but to talk about how it's the best program, you're kidding. The first pillar of personnel, yes, showed, Hloverka, showed Bruno Kovacevic, then, showed. Second pillar, program, what program? Which, of all, of the children's programs, educational programs, scientific programs, art programs, of all these demanding programs, who, on the basis of which the experience of a man who dealt with the best option how to equip in Al Jazeera and to connect some technique to connect. What does he have to do with producing such a demanding program? Yeah, digitization. Maybe movie archives, ask what the directors think about it. Cancel the tender, set the v.d. The director-in-chief of television, and at the same time let him resolve Periš Čaarun, at the same time relieve Mislav Stipić, the moment when, that is, he, because you are not allowed to do so, of course, v.d. The director can do it, let Bruno Kovacevic get rid of it right now, and you'll be breathing for a while, give yourself some time, change the law, you don't even need to change that article a lot, all of this stuff you've been talking about for six years, so you have six months, maybe you need less to do it, so you can do it. Change the Law, someone may contact you afterwards, but if you do not give up on the candidate Šveb, what is new in HDZ Andrej Plenkovic, except for what is new in HDZ Gordan Jandrokovic, and that we are not moving on, Ivo Sanader. It's all already been seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64200	Thank you. And now it's Mr. Erik Fabianic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64201	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So we are discussing the selection of director of Croatian Radio Television. I'll just give one in short sentences one introductory part. So, the Law on Institutions says that if the institution is founded by the Republic of Croatia then it is established by law. Otherwise, the Law on Institutions states that the founder, in this case, is a solid and unlimited liability for the operations of the institution to which he is the founder. So, because of the business of Croatian Radio Television, it is extremely important that we choose the director, because of our business. Why am I saying that? Because it's about a conflict of interest that's recommended, because we can satisfy potentially some legal, formal-legal conditions, we can also bypass them with various, different statements, but it's all divorced if we look at the essence. If we're looking at the point. Because it will always remain with that director because it is enough to prescribe, or hand over the company into other people's hands to manage, but it is also known on whose behalf, and no one can prove it and that is what is extremely difficult to prove, these are the causal and consequential links that may exist now, and therefore perhaps in this law it is good, or conditions of the competition, and it is written that you cannot today be in conflict of interest, and not that you will not be tomorrow. Well, we also need to make sure that for the next six months, a year, neither can we be in conflict of interest. We must not be in conflict for six months after our term of office has expired. So, okay, we can interpret it in the way we interpret it, but depending on how we interpret it, we give a message to who we are and what we are. Who we are and who we're gonna be, and that's the fact. If it's SDP's law, let it be, let it be. We've got worse laws than the SDP. I suggest we write in the National Journal, write down whose law it is, whether it's SDP or HDZ, and then we'll find fantastic things on that National Journal. The law on privatisation, the law by which de facto war criminals are amnesty in this country or people who have committed aggression against Croatia. I know it may have been some other political interests, that it was something that was imposed by the international community, but you see, I'm very pleased to look into the National Journal of HDZ laws. If that's what we're gonna talk about. If that's what we're gonna talk about. I've had enough privatisation, I've had enough privatisation. While people were killed on the battlefield or what the late Zdravko Tomac would say, someone got shot, and someone got property, right during the war. Yes, the procedure is not respected, because if the procedure was respected, then we wouldn't be discussing a new proposal today, and I was looking for one thing, I was really looking for one thing in the Rules of Procedure. I don't have a voice deposit, there isn't. Did you find him? Then I looked the wrong way. There's no such thing as a voice deposit. Apropo and the wages he spoke of and fellow Miletic, I think what you have to deposit, you have a salary for your job, do your job. So, and it matters to me, it's important, because in one part of the law, it's not about the law, you see the part where journalists have the right to state their views on the selection of the editor-in-chief, if you see this paragraph I'm proud because I've been involved in this since I was in the Croatian Journalist Society and it's among the leading people, or a member of the Executive Board. It's a time when Jadranka Kosor was still a colleague. So some things are good, some things are bad, but I'm saying if we just point the finger at who wrote the law, you can have a parliamentary majority, but you're not writing well. Well, I'm interested in one other thing, and that's a fact, and that's what the principal does, not the editor-in-chief. So the software content, and that's the issue of internal structure and other things, so I'm going to do it eventually. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Fabianic.]] Finally on behalf of the club. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sandra Bencic is now starting with final presentations and, of course, in front of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64203	I thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues I think that this time in, out of opposition, we have done absolutely everything that could be done to indicate that the ruling majority is once again making the wrong decision, but this time doing the wrong decision that you are not alone paying, you will not only pay it, but will literally pay it every month for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay the fee to HRT. We all agreed, and I believe you agree, and yes, I mean, it's simple because it's impossible to deny, that the situation on HRT is both human and institutional and programically bad. And that it's bad not now in 2021, but that we've had a long series of years of one drastic drop in criteria, a quality criterion that follows, of course, the drop in ratings. I wanted to say a little bit about the vision of public television that we talked about yesterday on the round table. Yesterday, it was very interesting to see the diversity of visions expressed by the former editor-in-chief of HRT and later by the chairman of the Agency for Electronic Media Mirjana Rakic and what your Minister Nina Obulen said. And in fact, you can see all the difference not only in the visions but also in the one whom someone would choose as a candidate or propose to be a candidate. Mrs Rakic reiterated that the role of Croatian public television is what all public services in Europe play, and that is to inform and then educate and then entertain. What the culture minister said first said was the role of HRT to help Croatian cultural production. And what I see in that is that, in fact, the culture minister's first priority is that HRT through part of its production, largely externally finance what the Ministry of Culture cannot budget in the field of audiovisual art examples. And that's exactly what HRT is for today. He's a flow water heater. The flow water heater for money that goes largely into external productions that we don't mind when it comes to, whenever it comes to serious, serious documentaries etc., but we have a problem with what journalists and journalists HRT were saying yesterday that five-minute contributions that should otherwise be done by some beginners at HRT are paying for external production and it's being put under those European minutes on TV. Next, the important thing that was said yesterday is what was seen, which also shows differences in vision and differences in candidates, what is the core, what is core business of HRT. Whether it's his program or it's a technique and an improvement of technique and entering that area of modernization at technical level. And what was very good yesterday was said, less important is how big the studio is, how well it is equipped, much more important what is said and how it is informed. I think that's what's getting out of sight. And that's what was only emphasized by the candidates the HDZ gives, and that's his expertise in the field of actually technology and technology in the media. What else was stressed yesterday? The position of workers and the position of journalists on HRT was highlighted. We actually had a lot to hear about today, but it can't be better when all three bodies we have in HRT, the supervisory board, the program board and the head director of HRT are chosen by the same majority. So, all three bodies of which each other should be some kind of brake and balance, choose, choose who, in this case HDZ or the parliamentary majority. And that can't be good. I say, after today, all that happens next is your responsibility. And most of all, a minister who is obviously very all-compassionate. [[Thank you very much.]] I supported this candidate. [[Thank you, ma'am. Bencic/]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64204	Thank you, too. Mr. Nino Rasdic will speak finally in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64205	The Honorable Chairman and fellow MPs. Last week, the ruling majority pushed the wrong person in the wrong way, poured ash in the meantime, and this week they pushed the wrong person in the right way. in a way that at least does not violate the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure although two things are legally questionable. First, whether the text of the tender itself is legal in the sense that there is no link or transposed provisions of the Law on Defences, and the second thing is that the Supervisory Board has missed the candidacy and documentation of the candidate of Sweden although it does not comply with the text of the competition, so no statement has been given as prescribed by the text of the invitation to tender is that the candidate is not in conflict of interest. But about that, about that one. It was interesting to hear Mr. Pupovac today, but I don't know what Mr. Radin thinks, is he still having second thoughts today, like Mr. Pupovec? Pupovac said he would monitor today's debate and that on the basis of the arguments offered, those from the club will be dragged away, there are three of them, whether they will support candidate Schwebb. Here's the argument he heard, he heard some counter arguments. The question was, why didn't we point out the other candidates? The board member William Matula pointed out candidate Špelić, I at least 6 candidates provided a much better and better programme than the candidate of Schweb and left aside that candidate Schweb is in conflict of interest and that he has serious past sins at the expense of the public service, but we simply felt that this competition should be repeated. And the best solution would be to convince Mr. Pupovac that these arguments stand, that tomorrow you don't have a majority of 76 as prescribed by the HRT Act not to choose a new director. In the meantime, HRT will be in the safe best man's hands until the election, namely V.D. is the godfather of Minister Koržinek Obuljen. If nothing terrible has happened since the day Kazimir Bacic went to prison, nothing terrible will happen even if we wait another two months. In the meantime, a tender which is legal, which will contain provisions of the Defence Act, the Supervisory Board will not miss out on invalid candidacys and will receive the head director of the HRT as it should be. The long-term solution to these problems in which we have all found ourselves together because we are responsible for the work of HRT and the Director-General, we receive reports from the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, which are fully in charge of amending the laws mentioned, is the amendment of the Law on HRT. In that sense, we from the Bridge Club will offer a new different legal solution as soon as possible that will prevent such situations from happening at all. We'll be there tomorrow, we'll see what happens and I repeat, I'm particularly interested, and a lot of internal bets have fallen over how Mr. Pupovac's thinking will end, and I'll be especially happy to see the on-call moralists and the underdogs of the "News" weekly issued by the Serbian People's Council, so Mr. Pupovac, how he'll write and look back at Pupovac and the new head of HRT, if Mr. Pupovac dares to deny that the arguments of the rulings were stronger than our arguments that Mr. Schweb was not in conflict of interest or that it was quite fine in 2009, which he did not do what his superiors told him and applied to the rights for the transfer of the world handball championship than it was lost and went to RTL for which the companies later. So, if Pupovac refuses to, as I say, do not stand and what the documents say from the text of the competition, Schwebb's statement by the public notary until that record from 2008 from the session of the Croatian Programme Council and the minutes of then chief director Vanje Sutlic. So if, however, Mr. Pupovac decides that Schweb is a good and acceptable candidate and that there is no problem with him then, together with the rest of you in the ruling majority, he will also bear political responsibility for everything that will happen in the coming months and the next years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64206	And now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn in front of the SDP Representatives Club, also final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The HRT Act prescribes the role of HRT and what to do, how to do, how to work, and how to read these provisions of the law and compare with practice, I think that somewhere after 13 seconds, at least the left side of the assembly would be smiled open, and you'd laugh if you couldn't do so much, and you'd know in fact that I'm right. So, what is the role of HRT under the law today, the HRT does not do, and it is also said by the representative of Mrs. Martincevic on, at least on the N1 tour. The law, as you often like to respond to criticism, passed by the SDP government in 2012, and the next 5 years. You haven't changed it, so we've come to a metaphysical situation that you, in fact, feel like the SDPs from 2012, and you don't feel like HDZs from 2008. It's a complete identity crisis, now I don't know if you'd put it in a drama program or this science science program. The public service of the HRT therefore managed to achieve its public service role at least briefly Thursday evening because it was able to gather on the subject of the HRT from the far left to the far or slightly less far right. Hand in hand or shoulder to the shoulder to say the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the Croatian Parliament in a way that we may or may not like but it turns out to be effective protected by opposition MPs, and you from the ruling ones did not break up too much to choose Mr. Schweb on Friday. Now that we're looking at the historical depiction, it turns out that you certainly didn't have 76 votes on Friday, you don't have them today, you may have them tomorrow morning, at least according to what the ruling majority representatives said today in the Croatian Parliament. So we had a united opposition and a divided majority. It's a momentary situation. And the divided majority currently do not have enough votes to elect the head director of HRT. And there are two possibilities. Or to bring your coalition partner's purpose, it wouldn't be the first time he's had leprosy views before the vote, and in a vote to vote right, it once cost him public controversy with the president of the Republic, and this one or you find someone from the opposition who will support the director of HRT, you need two MPs 77-3, 74 and 76 missing 2. But I'm sure if you don't have a majority that it won't work tomorrow, it won't go to the vote. The united opposition even motivated this one by the Prime Minister to understand yesterday's, that yesterday's one, in one of the statements he tried to convince voters or at least gave them one pedagogical advice that they should understand, so the voters should understand, it is one of these enlightening notes that the Prime Minister has very often started to use that, I will quote Bencic and Hasanbegovic too. So, he created a mythical creature, Hasanbencic, and so he said, wanting to describe how Vasil Tupurkovski is here, if you remember that, said a non-principle coalition against him. So he considered how wrong he was when he succeeded when he turned everything against himself. So he succeeded the entire opposition and another tiny piece of this ruling majority. So that's why he's a kind of union of the opposition, and as he said a long time ago, Comrade Lenin could only have heads in his own ranks, and that's not exactly us, either, so that we can teach someone lessons. So the next time you say what kind of law the SDP passed and what the SDP was doing, then you'll get an answer to what we were doing in 2008, no court epilogue or in 2012, and what you did in 2008, there's a court epilogue. So be careful using these, these metaphors who did what, very, very careful about it. And to conclude, in the end, if Mr. Prime Minister assured the left and right voters that Bencic and Hasanbegovic are the same, we can return them to the same measure in ten. Let him understand both right and left that they're the same as Andrei and Ivo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64208	I will continue your prose and invite Mrs. Marijana Puljak to speak finally on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64209	I thank the chairman. Let's conclude that HDZ can't do without corruption. They've proven this through this violent selection of HT directors. One director who has been removed because of a corruption affair is being replaced by another who is immersed in conflict of interest. And all of this in the week in which the Supreme Court confirmed that HDZ was responsible for corruption and the withdrawal of money in the Fimi Media affair. If there was no corruption, HDZ would simply fall apart into the components. What kind of HRT when we're already talking about HRT that we don't talk about the director anymore and which director is good or bad, let's say what we expect from HRT. Therefore, HRT should be a dam or can be a dam and a powerful weapon in the fight precisely against this corruption. So, a public service that needs to be informed how we heard yesterday on a round table, inform, educate and entertain. Today, HRT has 2800 employees, manages a billion-dollar budget and 300 million kuna that collects through a subscription, 80 kuna subscription. And what's happening and what's her condition today? It's an institution that's long since become the party's voice in power. There has been a lot of discussion here before about how many HDZs have been on TV is, has not, I have not, I haven't, etc., so let's look at the activities before the parliamentary elections either last year or now local elections when there are increasingly frequent guests of prominent HDZ and Government not only in informative but now and in mosaics such as Good Morning Croatia. It's interesting if you remember we had one live show of Croatia that was shut down because it was supposed to be too much politics on HRT and they wanted to relax the program, but now they're bringing politicians from the HDZ to such mosaics. Research journalists have made statistics very precise, here before the parliamentary elections, here I am now reading exactly that statistics, so in Good Morning Croatia 29 times from March to June, only in the central Journal in the form of guest shows with significant minutes of ministers and prime minister performed at least 25 times, during the same period of the day more than 30 times. So much for that, there's no HDZ on HRT. There is no or no show on HRT that critically talks about the current political situation except depending on the guests here and there on Sunday at 2 or this program Labyrinth which is broadcast on HTV 4 which is not so watched. After researching the Agency for Electronic Media the viewers of this HTV, HRT-4 is smaller than RTL Cube and Nickelodeon, so the channel that was designed as a news channel Pandan N1 is unambitious, unreal, unsightly. HRT, which lives out of a billion and 300 million kuna a year not only does it not have a department of investigative journalism but there is no research magazine such as other televisions, and of course it is done on purpose because HRT today doesn't reveal anything, journalism is forged, the system is successfully transformed into a news agency, it's not being analyzed, it doesn't put into context, and here we've heard whether it's from the ruling that they're thrilled with this candidate's résumé because they're going to make a digital transformation, so there's only talk about digital transformation as if it's important, I'm not saying it's not important, but it's not the most important thing that our kids don't watch television anymore, there's a lot of people who don't even have a camera and you don't know how you't even charge them, so you need to know how to steam it, but it't really be the most important characteristics and the most important thing. We heard yesterday from the minister on the round table that she was satisfied with the state of the HRT because the finances were excellent, excellent. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, she spoke when the topic, the thematic session on the situation in HNK, also said, the HNK in Zagreb, also said that the situation is excellent because finances are excellent. So here's the HRT running the errands on the grandmothers whose pension is below 1,000 kuna, and that's what HRT turned into today, and this man isn't going to take him forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64210	Thank you. Mr. Erik Fabianic will speak in front of the Social Democrats' Club, also finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64211	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to pick up where I left off in an individual debate, so there's one thing that's also in the law of rebellion again, and it's totally atypical because it's generally state-run, but not just state-run institutions. However, the Law on HRT does not govern the Administrative Council but manages the Supervisory Board. Maybe it was done on purpose, maybe it was done on purpose because the Supervisory Board is a body that is essentially provided for by the Company Act. Although HRT should be a public service, it is, unfortunately, also acting as a commercial society, perhaps it is good that we do not have a council, but rather a supervisory board. However, I will return to the office of director or management. HRT management has been in desperate shape for a long time. This is not just a matter of working disputes, we know that there are situations in which contributions to pension insurance were paid at the time the HRT employee would retire because it would be seen through the fingertips as much HZMO demand as possible towards HRT. Some remember that and those times. Whether the Work Regulations or the Systematization of Jobs are really applied then we will see that what is reality in relation to what is written has one huge disproportion, and also when it wants to be applied also on the basis of internal competitions, then these competitions are in any way invalidated if the person who administration would have not applied, let’s say, so convenient. And what's also a legal catch, and that's just a simple contest ending in the election. Well, you see, that's what I suggest we do, so the contest ends in the election and it's called and a new contest is called. Of course not, it will not come because the modus operandi is unfortunately very well known to us, and we forget that this public service should grow to us because of history, because of tradition, because of the cultural heritage which, in it, which, which is in it, is in it, but unfortunately, there will be nothing. The market position in which this market position today is located HRT at the end of the day is seen through ratings, especially through ratings, through ratings, through the ratings of informative, informative emissions. Although it is not the responsibility of the director, that part is the responsibility of the editor. And I think that what is happening in any case is not good because we are still part of Europe and that Europe is looking at us as we look at it and this is still proof of one non-transparent work, formally perhaps satisfactory, but certainly not, it is not European. Is there any damage? What's the damage? It's a shame what the system of democratic values is, that's where we get the damage. With HRT as such, unfortunately there is no harm because unfortunately no one is looking at it anymore. The Social Democrats Club will not support the appointment of the director from the arguments we heard in the debate, but in any case it will support the SDP's conclusions. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64212	And now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn to finally speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here, you can come, Mr. Ivanovic. No, not at least 2.5 minutes does not work, please, I mean, it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure, but it would be a little bit, but if you make a deal like that, I mean I don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64213	You decide, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64214	No, if you want to do that, you want half?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64215	I'd give half my time without a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64216	Well, it's a precedent, but there's nothing in the Rules of Procedure, there's nothing.../incomprehensible... that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64217	But Mrs. Martincevic is here, so she'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64218	No, well, go ahead, speak up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64219	Okay, good. Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are a few final thoughts regarding the selection of candidates for head director of HRT. First of all, thank all the candidates who made the call. I've had opportunities with everyone to be and hear their proposals for the program and what they've offered as a vision of a solution on HRT. There were all kinds of programs, I've already said that in a row. What needs to be highlighted here, and that the Croatian public knows that we are here now discussing the election of the head director of HRT under the law passed in 2012 and there is no dilemma at all. He makes it clear that the majority of parliament will elect the head director of HRT on the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. And that's what we're doing right now. 7 votes from the board were for a 13-man candidate for Mr. Schwebb. And I think it's both legitimate and legal. But I'm surprised at the amount of some kind of negative energy and even in some parts and disgusts, the hatred of what we do, and some are in the term of Kazimir Bačić, whom everyone here calls as some man who carried some sort of bag, for it ended up in prison, they'll probably be punished, they worked on that same HRT, that same HRT of them created, created politicians sitting in this high house today. A part of the parliamentary MPs spoke about how politics should not be meddled in the media. And I just for the fact that politics doesn't need to get mixed up in the media at all, and then again on the other hand we have representatives who have a list of people who need to be expelled from HRT, who should be replaced by ad hoc right now and right now. And that's the solution to HRT. Who are we? Who are we Parliamentarians to cut heads of anyone, anyone? It's our job to respect the law, and the law says give the candidate who has the parliamentary majority, a new director of HRT will be elected. I think that's the fairest thing he can do. If I could influence any director of HRT, you know what I would ask him to devote more programs to the traditional culture of the Croatian people than like, Dalmatia, Dubrovnik, Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, that's what we are. It's us, it's Croatia. I would ask him for it, he wouldn't ask for anything, because I don't need anything in that sense. And I don't know what kind of editor and I don't know who that editor is on the phone with, who he's calling, who he's calling, who he's asking questions about, I don't do it, and I'm never gonna care about it, but I'm not gonna let anyone throw a stone at the HDZ who's here honorably defending what the law requires of it. We witnessed here on Thursday a historic unification of the opposition, to find out today that the unification is no more. No, Mr. Zekanovic said that he, I quote him, would never, ever participate in that circus. Madam President made it clear here that she made a procedural mistake, apologized, but each of you had a need to re-absorb. As for what's most important. What was required in a public call? That a certified confirmation is not the case from the public notary, as it states here, that there is no conflict of interest within the meaning of Article 20(3) and Article 25(5) and (6). HRT law. But here the man says that he has stakes and he honestly admits, no investigation has to be made, he honestly admits that if he gets elected, if no one knows yet he will be elected tomorrow, if he is elected not only will he transfer his stakes but he will give up absolutely will sell, he will not own any more. Therefore, I am not any legal expert, constitutional expert or anything else, all candidates had such certificates. And I'd like to maybe if they could get confirmation from the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, but it can't give them away when they're not chosen for the function they're looking for, they're just a candidate. So, thank you all very much, we've heard a lot. I was hoping we'd stay here until morning, the united opposition guaranteed it. We're prepared, but from that [[Thank you very much.]] Almost nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-19-0.u64220	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue our session tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. vote on this point and we're done before we thought and saved the power. Thank you. Session interrupted at 17.33 p.m.
