ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71546	Dear colleagues, here today, the day after the International Anti-Corruption Day, to warn of one, two cases, I'm not going to talk about, I don't know, wind power plants, windmills and some other cases that may have been media access, more present, but two cases, here from where I come from. One is Vruja, which means the devastation of the maritime goods that lasts for twenty years. At a session on December 6th, the County Assembly took away for the second time the concession to Pointi and its owner Stipi Latković, who in the area of the bay, once hidden, one too late cove between Omis and Makarska, which could once be reached only by the sea, and when he took over that concession for 20 years has spread freely in all directions, spreads to state-owned countries, building despite all inspections, all the controls that have so far banned countless times its construction. He breaks through the roads, sometimes fire-fighting, and now they're the two-way roadways to his castles in that bay. So, here's the county recently taking that concession away, but here's what happens if it takes away the concession? Nothing, he won't edit a little of that salary, it's a concession on the beach and that's part of the maritime goods, but all its courtyards from that coast to the top of the road remain, it stays that way, so nothing destroys what was wrongly built. Let's ask ourselves why. But the second case that shocked me yesterday is related to the proposal of an amendment that I have proposed here to the state budget, which was the amendment of 15 million kuna for the recovery of hazardous waste or hazardous waste, the cost of whatever you want to call it in the area of the former Dugi rat factory, so Ferrolegura Dugi Rat Factory, which is currently an investor, the Uvala project, had a rehabilitation program approved in 2015. and should therefore be taken within four years until the end of 2019. Recover this area. As they did not do so under the Environmental Protection Act, the area was to be rehabilitated by the state and then charged by investors. Of course, the state has done nothing and I am now in the amendment's proposal to say and book some starting amount of 15 million kuna, but the Secretary of State answers says the recovery programme is approved and we can't accept that it will resuscitate the investor. And now I'm surprised, so maybe there's a new rehab program, but here's the press who were faster asked the ministry a question and yesterday came a response from that ministry, so which is the recovery program might have some new one. No, that's the one from 2015. which had already expired once, on which the investor had already had to resuscitate it on which it had come to the obligation of the state that it should have been rescheduled from the end of 2019 to the present day, so it did not. Now, they're back on that expired sanaci programme and they promise to re-promise the Invela project, so you'll have the right to re-recover a factory that you've never released before this year, but here's what my moms told me, they've made a promise somewhere, I don't know which pocket came into which pocket that pocket went through, but here's the same investor I don't know which time. So here you have in the region of Dalmatia, you have a Vruju that 20 years devasts the maritime well-being and no one at all. Why is he devasting? Because it can, because no one can do anything to a man. So why obey the laws of this country when there are some similar and suitable ones that do not need to obey the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71572	Following is the presentation of the position on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71573	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues on this day of 1948, the UN General Assembly adopted a general declaration of human rights. This is why today we mark the International Day of Human Rights. I hope I don't have to explain to some people what human rights are, even though I sometimes get that impression from some debates, but human rights are universal and indivisible. Unfortunately, we don't enjoy them all as human beings, either. People are injured in their dignity and rights in Croatia, on the edges of the EU and in countless other places in the world. It's something we can't and can't tolerate. Not only as politicians, not as advocates, but as human beings, and we must speak clearly and loudly about this. Why? Because there are no equal and there are no equal in human rights and human dignity we all need and we need to be the same. In Croatia, unfortunately, human rights are being violated in countless ways, I'm just going to count some as much time as I can. For example, the human right to a dignified age, little if you walk the streets of any of our cities not only of dignity, I'm talking about a dignified life, you'll find a lot of our fellow citizens in an older age who dig through garbage cans looking for plastics that can then be returned to the store for some minimum fee, and that's how you deepen your very thin budget. If we're talking about the right to work, the right to an honest salary for work, I don't think I have to explain it specifically. If we speak of the right of fostering children or adopting children, we are not the same as there are more equal because some colleagues and colleagues cannot give their children a warm home because of their sexual orientation, it is not and must not be standard. Also in the light of the pandemic there are equal and there are more equal colleagues and colleagues. Although I am for vaccination, I have been vaccinated and I have repeatedly mentioned it to citizens who have not been vaccinated for either their subjective or objective reasons, should not be discriminated against and should not be denied access to certain services simply because they are not vaccinated. There must be a clear alternative in this case that is testing, if tested must of course be negative, they must be treated the same as the rest of us who have Covid certificates because otherwise we create a great inequality in society we create covidconfirmers and they without, we create vaccinated and unvaccinated. In our already divided society, I think that such divisions are unnecessary that we must not allow them. In any case, human rights as I said are universal, indivisible. Today we mark the International Day of Human Rights and we at the Social Democrats Club think that at least one debate should draw attention to this. And not only that, but also to say that unfortunately human rights are not yet universal value in all parts of the world, and I'm afraid they're not in Croatia either. It's something that we all need to work on together, and that's why I invite you all colleagues and colleagues from all sides of the assembly, regardless of the political colors and worlds, to stand together for all human rights, to point out where they are being violated and not to keep quiet about human rights violations because silence is approval. And if we approve of human rights violations, then we didn't deserve our respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71609	Following is the statement on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71610	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the meeting held on 6 December, the Governing Council of the HZZ decided to supplement the Action Programme on the detention of workers in the activities of reduced economic activity for November 2021. It complemented the list of eligible support activities and included urban and suburban land transport of passengers and other land transport of passengers. Employers from these activities demonstrate a fall in income according to existing criteria, but only within the business of occasional transport. Also, caterers are exclusively employers who make most of the income from catering in the event industry and whose main activity is that. I remind you, for the programme of detention of workers in activities of reduced economic activity for November 2021. requests shall be submitted via online application at the website of the measure-zrmhzz.hr until the end of 22 December 2021.g. At the same session, a decision was taken on a new measure A programme for the retention of workers in activities of reduced economic activity for December 2021. The eligible activities remain the same as for the November period, and the requirements will be accepted from 27 December to 20 January 2022. The employer may be granted the use of 100% support for all workers for whom support is sought if 70% and more workers for whom support is sought have EU digital covid certificate or have obtained the conditions for obtaining the same rules on the issue in the Republic of Croatia. If less than 70% of workers own the EU digital covid certificate will receive a proportional amount of support, the amount shall be equal to the percentage of the covid of the total amount of support. The target groups of employers other than those mentioned in the supplements are employers from the sector covered by the November measure. They are detailed on the website, and now because of the lack of time, I do not have time to quote them, then employers from areas where disaster has been declared to be caused by an earthquake, regardless of their activity and when, for objective reasons, their business, business production processes have been reduced or disabled. And employers who are partially or entirely prohibited from working through civil protection decisions regardless of activity. I would also like to congratulate HZZ on the special recognition of the effectiveness of the implementation of measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to preserve jobs as a result of the Covida-19 epidemic. It thanked all HZZ employees who have done and are still working on the overall process of transfer of money to employers, as well as employees of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy that have created the necessary preconditions and provided the funds that have made this possible. Since the third month of 2020, The staff of the Employment Office shall work in a committed manner to ensure that the requests are processed and the funds paid to the users, continuing all regular activities and measures directed at employers and unemployed persons. It is significant that the requirements with the accompanying documentation from the first day were received digitally, meaning the unconnected route, so that employers did not have to come to the offices of the Employment Office but were allowed to surrender 24 hours a day from their computers, which significantly reduces the risk of spreading the virus. Through the operation of many activities in 2020 and 2021. without measures taken to help and pay nearly 19 billion kuna for over 600,000 workers and 120,000 aid workers would be significantly difficult, and rarely unsustainable. Therefore, the role of HZZ was and is invaluable and I thank them once again for their efforts, enthusiasm and commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71745	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club is a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u71746	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today we mark the Day of Human Rights, a day that we want to talk once again about the idea of human rights that many today are called upon, unfortunately, more often when their own rights are at stake, and much less when it comes to the rights of others. And so today we will talk about our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who see human rights primarily as a need to stand up for others, I will talk about this year's winners and winners of the Krunoslav Sukic Peace Prize, a small reward, but for the great people who are still not well known in our public. So the Krunoslav Sukic Peace Prize was founded in 2009. The Association of the Centre for Peace of Non-violence, Human Rights from Osijek and the prize carries the peace activists and humanists of Krunoslav Sukić whose education, knowledge and action was motivated by the recognition and respect of dignity, integrity and rights of every human being and beyond, every living being and everything created. This year, Mira Bilopavlovic received the award for her 27-year contribution to building peace in the war-affected Western Slavonia area of protection of vulnerable groups, promoting a culture of diversity and equality and advocating the rights of national minorities. Lora Vidovic for the outstanding contribution and personal stamp given by the Office of the Public Advocates in the term of office of 2013-2021. Center for the Culture of Dialogues from Rijeka for the campaign and the program "My Place Under the Sun" for a step away from a palitative, humanitarian approach towards inclusive, development and peaceful work with children from the family of weaker property and successful cooperation with the community in which they live. The Peace Institute from Ljubljana for 30 years of uninterrupted creation, affirmation and practice of cultural retirement for a key role in the start of an anti-war campaign in the Republic of Croatia to link peace policies with the human rights strategy. The recognition of Krunoslav Sukić's book in 2020-2021 won Ivana Bodrušić for the novel "Sons and Daughters" and Elvis Bošnjak for the novel "Where the Kir is Gone". The recognition of Krunoslav Sukić "Peaceful School 2021" was awarded to students and professors of the first high school in Zagreb because for years the school has been working on projects, programmes and activities that strengthen personal and school capacities for non-violent conflict resolution, conduct civic education, contribute to the awareness of sustainable development, connect with other schools, civil society associations, various institutions, and conduct solidarity actions in the community. One of the recent examples is certainly aid to the students of the school in Clay. The award was awarded to both students and teachers of the Glina High School. The recognition is assigned to promote education for peace, non-violence and cooperation and to cultivate open communication of volunteering, and solidarity to the needs of the community. And especially since the difficult circumstances after the earthquake when the tenants were in Topusco High School or now working at a modular school for them were not an insurmountable obstacle but an opportunity to live just that effort. The recognition was awarded posthumously and Melanija Mesic, members of the Roma national minority that brought down prejudice. This way the Green-Left Block Club congratulates the organizers and all the laureates. Your work is a great inspiration and responsibility for our political work in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81763	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before we begin the session, I would like to remind you that today we are marking the 22nd anniversary of the death of the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Franjo Tudjman, and I would like to say that thanks to his vision and tenacity and courage of Croatian defenders, a free independent, sovereign and democratic Croatia has been achieved and we are sitting here thanks to him and them. President Tudjman was a historian, he was a scientist, he was a statesman, he was a leader in war and peace, but also a visionary who was able to achieve the eternal aspirations of the Croatian people precisely in, I dare say, the darkest night for the Croatian people, the age of Serb aggression, suffering and destruction. His policy was based on the unification and reconciliation of all Croats, regardless of ideological orientation. On the return to the Central European Civilian Circle, which has always belonged to Croatia's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, as we have achieved, as well as the restoration of Croatia's national self-awareness and Croatian traditions, cultural identity and languages, as well as the integration of evicted and native Croatia. For everything that he has made generations of Croatian citizens will be eternally grateful, and we who have had the honour of cooperating with him in the creation of the Croatian state will be proud of it for the rest of our lives. I would like to ask you for a moment of silence to honor the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Francis Tudjman. - A moment of silence - May it be his eternal glory and thank you. And now, as predicted, we're going on our agenda. The first is, first we will talk about: - Final proposal of the Law on adult education, second reading, P.Z. No. 168; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Tomislav Paljak, State Secretary at the Ministry, of course, science and education, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81764	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education. As we pointed out during the first reading, the adoption of the Law on adult education in 2007 was the first time a system of adult education in the Republic of Croatia was separately arranged. After that, other normative and strategic documents were adopted at national and European level, which pointed to the need to adopt a new law with a view to harmonising with the normative-strategic framework and with a view to eliminating the shortcomings observed during the application of the existing law. It is also important to stress that the new Law on adult education is also adopted with the aim of developing a quality adult education system and is expected to encourage citizens to participate in lifelong learning. The EU's strategic priorities, while also the Republic of Croatia, stress that lifelong learning must become a reality in the EU and that by 2025 at least 47% of the adult population must participate in education, and one of the objectives, by 2030, states that 60% of the population should participate in education each year. For this reason, Member States are called on to create quality, passing, flexible and inclusive adult education systems because only such systems can encourage adults to engage in education and skills development, which will enable them to face rapid technological, social and economic changes. In the Republic of Croatia, the number of adults participating in education for the time being is not satisfactory, so one of the important goals that Croatia needs to achieve in the next period is to increase the number of adults participating in lifelong learning, especially those with a lower level of education. It is this Final Proposal of the Law on adult education that goes in the direction of quality upgrade and improvement of the existing system, so that every adult in our country will be given education that will give him a better position in the labour market and therefore better social status and personal well-being. Let me point out once again the key changes made by the new Law on adult education, which will directly affect the quality and relevance of the system. Under the existing law of the adult education institution, solutions are given to the implementation of formal programmes of unlimited duration, leading to the implementation of programmes which are materially outdated and do not meet the needs of the labour market. As a result, there is insufficient compliance of labour supply and skills acquired with the needs of the economy, which is reflected in the relatively high lack of the necessary qualified workforce. Therefore, the new legislative solution provides for the obligation of continuous harmonisation of the education programme with the qualification standard or the learning outcome sets of the HKO Register in such a way that all institutions will, within 6 months of the date of the change of the qualification standard in the HKO Register, be obliged to comply with the education programmes, thus ensuring the relevance of the programme in relation to labour market needs. Regarding the debate during the first reading, I stress that although there was no obligation so far to bring the programme into line with the HKO Register, a large number of institutions have continuously introduced changes into their programmes. For example, during 2020 a total of 90 programmes were amended or completed with new learning outcomes, methods and forms of work. I also note that not all programmes submitted by the institutions have received a positive expert opinion from the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. In 2020, an expert evaluation of 844 programmes was carried out, and positive expert opinions received 647, so almost 25% were rejected. Furthermore, it is important to note that the final proposal also significantly improves the quality assurance system of institutions which includes a publicly available quality assessment. In this way, it will be possible for institutions that work in quality to be recognised as a place where students can acquire quality education and qualifications of the relevant labour market. Also, with the aim of raising the scope and strengthening the skills of the workforce, this legislative solution provides for the development of a voucher system through which education programmes will be financed for the acquisition of skills needed for work and for persons employed and unemployed. I particularly stress that, to this end, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, family and social policy has so far defined 130 skills required in the Croatian labour market, and in the context of the financing of education through vouchers, there is no room for negative thinking that we will finance skills programmes for the needs of an foreign labour market. I point out that, for the purposes of the voucher under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, up to 2026, an amount of 300 million kuna for the participation of about 30,000 users is foreseen. The maximum cost of an education programme covering an individual voucher is 10 000 kuna. A very significant shift in the education system is considered both recognition and evaluation of previously acquired knowledge and skills. This legal option on the one hand will allow for the acquisition of a public instrument for continuing education, and on the other hand, the acquisition of a qualification that enables employment. In addition, this way will have a significant impact on the removal of two obstacles to adult education. The time to acquire qualifications will be shortened and the cost of education for the individual will be reduced. It is particularly important to say that the evaluation programmes will be carried out only by those institutions for adult education that have been evaluated in the external evaluation process by a high or very high level of quality, which I had previously talked about. As regards the national information system for adult education, it will contain data on programmes, participants, teachers, public documents issued and the financing of accredited programmes. So-called ... The system will also contribute significantly to the administrative discharge of the system as all relevant documentation necessary for the issue of expert opinions and solutions will be stored in the system and the submission of applications for institutions will be much simpler and faster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final draft of the law in relation to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in HS has introduced amendments related to compliance with the Services Act, in order to allow EU citizens the freedom to provide services on an occasional and temporary basis. Certain provisions of the final draft law are further in line with the HKO Regulation to ensure the full compatibility of the two regulations, which will be a guarantee for the adoption of quality and relevant education programmes and evaluation programmes. In addition, the final draft of the law explicitly stipulates that the working experience to meet the conditions for employment at the workplace of the Andragogian Head refers exclusively to the work experience acquired by performing educational work in institutions in the system of education and education, and not as so far as it has been stated, working experience in institutions in the education and education system. In addition, the comments of the HS Legislative Committee relating to the nomotechnical arrangement of the normative part of the bill were also included and the texts were completed in language with a view to a clearer understanding of the text, which did not affect its content. I also note how the 4 nomotechnical amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives are being adopted on the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education. The Ministry of Science and Education considered and analysed the other proposals and opinions of the day in the first reading, so it was also considered that the external evaluation of adult education institutions was carried out by the NGO rather than by the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. The Ministry remains in the position that the quality assurance system is in the responsibility of the Agency, as is the quality assurance system in higher education entrusted to the Higher Education Agency. I point out that external evaluation will be carried out by an independent expert commission composed of experts with appropriate competences to know trends in adult education and experience in implementing quality assurance procedures. In addition, Article 25 of the final text of the law stipulates that the institution has the right to comment on the proposal for a level of quality, and the second independent commission appointed by the Minister in charge of education is the basis of the objection. A proposal relating to inclusion in the quality assurance system and schools of foreign languages established as companies, crafts or associations has also been discussed. I note that these schools cannot enter the quality assurance system because this process involves professional administrations and inspection supervision carried out by the Agency for Professional Education and Education, the Ministry of Science and Education and the independent sector of educational inspection, and they do not have the authority to supervise companies, associations or crafts. However, those schools established both as a company and as an institution for adult education will be able to enter the quality assurance system according to these laws. As regards the proposal to enable teachers to be engaged in adult education institutions under an act contract, I note that the provision of Article 18(1) of the final proposal provides for teachers in adult education to establish a working relationship in accordance with the provisions of the law governing working relations or to cooperate in accordance with the provisions of the laws which are governed, which provide for mandatory relations, which show that the conclusion of an act contract is not prevented. The proposal has also been considered and concerns the determination of penalties for infringements of the provisions relating to the financing or co-financing of the programme of education by means of public funds and the prohibition of the collection of the same from the students, however, I would point out that this is already regulated by the Penal Code, so it is not necessary to additionally prescribe this law. As regards the proposal relating to the employment of the Andragogian Head for part-time, I draw attention to the fact that the tasks of the Andragogian Head are prescribed by Article 7 of the final proposal of the law and given their scope, it is not possible for the Andragogian leader to be employed on part-time because this is also a quality assurance of the work of the institution. With regard to the proposal that the period for external evaluation of institutions now proposed for 5 to 7 years is limited to a maximum of 5 years, I note that a large number of 630 institutions will need to carry out an external evaluation and the ministry remains in the position that the optimal time limit for this process is at least 5 and 7 years at the most. And finally, I want to point out that we are convinced that these changes will significantly contribute to the development of a quality adult education system and will encourage citizens to become more involved in lifelong learning. The Ministry of Science and Education and the Agency for Professional Education will also provide all the support needed for adult education institutions in order to successfully implement legal provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81765	Thank you very much. We have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81766	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, adult education according to data in the Republic of Croatia is carried out in about 600 institutions where around 11,000 different adult education programmes are implemented, many of which are both of which are more and less old and, of course, we all understand that the adult education system is complex and fragmented and, in this sense, I consider myself primarily in the adult education system, but we are also opening up to the future and new trends. When I say that order is introduced first of all, I mean the importance of introducing a quality assurance system into institutions that educate adults through internal and external evaluation. And when I mention a twist in the future, turning new trends, I certainly find it important to stress that the new law provides the possibility of recognising competences acquired by information and informal learning, which has not been the case so far and I find it extremely important for adults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81767	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81768	Thank you very much for apostrophe that is exactly what this law is about, and I think that a quality step in terms of the recognition of informal and information knowledge and skills is very important and especially in the context of development and standards that institutions will have to meet in the future in accordance with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81769	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81770	Thank you, Vice President. You yourself have noted that one of the important goals that the Republic of Croatia is seeking to achieve in the next period is to increase the number of adults who will participate in lifelong learning, thus equating the rate with a European average of 10.8 and with us is 3.5%. Experience can tell that people find it difficult, difficult to decide for a lifetime of education, and that the planned number of people involved will be difficult to reach. And now I'm wondering if you're aware that it's going to be necessary to animated and motivate additional potential users, and here's how I come from Licko-Senj County, rarely populated county, and there's still an additional problem with the arrival of people, informing groups, it's hard to form a group, and even in educational institutions, although there are almost 600 of them, they find it difficult to implement educational programs in such areas because the name is and financially invaluable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81771	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81772	Thank you very much. Yes, I understand, of course, that coverage will have to be bigger. These data from 2019 are quite significant, we are well below the European average in terms of the willingness of our citizens to engage in lifelong learning. One part will, of course, be made possible by the consumption of vouchers prescribed by this law, and the other part, of course, by shortening these administrative procedures that have been quite complicated so far. Of course, there in demographically devasted and rural areas it will go harder, but we think that this law also allows quality adult education institutions to be formed in these areas, and since recognition of informal knowledge and information learning will encourage people to use their skills in new upgrades in terms of adult education. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81773	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81774	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well congratulations and pleasure to see the vouchers start, I think it's a real example of co-operation between the two ministries, but it's also a real example of cooperation between the education system and the labour markets. The idea of a voucher has started since I was a minister, I'm glad to see that 300 million kuna was secured in the NPOO, congratulations to Minister Aladrovic, I'm sorry there is no Secretary of State See. But what was the point behind that? The point was that by lack of labour, wages are growing because of labour shortages, not to increase productivity. These 300 million kunas will ensure employers to raise their productivity, so that the team can pay higher wages and will lead to the growth of wages in the wage system, but based on the increase in productivity... so congratulations once again that we have in the implementation of this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81775	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81776	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, you have all said well, the vouchers are here to get this result from this law, but it is particularly important to stress that they refer to all categories listed in the Croatian register, so that all educational groups and employees can be included and not employees, so that the campaign will probably be very intense when all this starts and here I call on everyone to follow and contribute to the public that as many people as possible and that here is using this opportunity that will be available to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81777	Dear representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81778	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. To sum up, we have 630 registered adult education institutions and more than 11,000 programmes, and we are fat at the beginning and below the European average. Tell me what needs to change the number of institutions or the number of programs?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81779	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81780	One and the other respected MPs, because by law so far when you have acquired the qualification to teach adults, you were practically no longer supposed to update it or complete it on any basis. And then very often it happened that these programmes were out of date that they were not in line with the labour market, they were not in line with the register, and it was simply piling up so much that we were trying to put order in the labour market that way, and on the other hand, to enable it to be monitored and to monitor market needs. That is why Croatian employers have also been involved in the ranking of those professions that are our priority so that we can follow through this system and enable people to educate themselves on those jobs that the market needs and which are current.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81781	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81782	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is certainly to welcome any improvement in the education system, even for adults, but what I am interested in talking about harmonising the education system with the needs of the market. As far as I know HZZ issues recommendations every year or a list of deficits, or how much employment is needed in which category there is, or whether there is, or whether there is, or whether there is, or whether there is, at the Bureau, what we would like to talk about high school. I'm glad to talk about it when we talk about adults, and I'd like to talk to HKO, who we lost out of focus that's not really mentioned anymore, who hasn't lived properly, and who should have also played a role in adult education or learning skills through informal education that would certainly help people and the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81783	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81784	Your Honor, you've opened up and you're aware of a very broad subject yourself, I can't give you that in one minute you might answer it properly, but that the vertical link should be that way. We are working intensively on the issue of secondary education of vocational education, but also on the attitudes of vocational education programmes and high school programmes. Just as they have implications for higher levels of education, then, of course, adult education. We are aware of this and we are aware that some interests simply need to be refreshed in the sense that they are re-acceptable and attractive and current, and yet on the other hand, market needs are what they are and labour imports are what they are, so here is a complex problem. But I agree with what you're about to say and how you actually touched this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81785	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81786	Your Honor, Secretary of State. The law imposes the need to bring all programmes of adult education into line with the HKO, or the HKO register, in which there should be standards of occupation and standards of qualification. Despite the fact that the HKO Act was passed in 2013 The situation in the register of HKO is visible and devastating and has been introduced into it until now by a negligible and insignificant number of standards and it is impossible to pass a new law on that basis. However, my question is this, the register was spent through a terrible amount of money last year, of course from the state budget, and the result almost nothing. The professional councils that have been working on the assessment of standards so far have not made any shifts over two mandates, but members have been given more fees neatly. Can you tell the public how much money was spent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81787	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81788	Well, I don't know how much money is spent now, I can tell you how much funding and adult education costs total and how much of it is within the state budget. Let's say that if we talk about what our obligation is, which is basic education, then it's 4 million kunas a year, but since you mention funding that has multiple sources, and among other things, there are European funds that go towards fundamental skills and vouchers. So it's going to be 300 million dollars for vouchers and 10 million kuna for basic skills, and then you have a whole series of alignments with this law that will refer to the education of andrological workers, the promotion... and the quality of an institution of 70 million, synchronising programs with... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The production of 30 million kuna programs. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if I'm on to the answer, but these are the data I have now, if we need to give you an additional answer to your question, but of course there are costs and any procedure in the legislative framework. Whether in reform of course it costs, but we're lucky this time we can... [[Intruder: Thank you]] with European funds. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81789	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81790	As regards modern trends, therefore, the law speaks of material and technical conditions that institutions must meet for teaching, rooms and similar things, however, the conditions for online teaching and online programs are not the subject of whether we are here and at the time of the pandemic we are witnessing the increasing use of such teaching and are increasingly frequent, so what must be the conditions for the implementation of such programs and who controls them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81791	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81792	Yes, of course it must be made possible in light of today's business and online business and it is normal and natural and to enable digital nomads and business entities in the EU area to, to work independently on so-called. establish their own and register their companies. So there are basic, basic preconditions in the technological sense which are, which are very visible when it comes to e-business in terms of their effectiveness, but I am here by heart cannot tell you now what it is and how it is prescribed, but we can see. But mostly of course this law provides for this way and work and business and registration of business entities because they are simply the living opportunities that are today standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81793	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81794	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, we have already heard that the Republic of Croatia is quite deviating from the European average when we talk about adult involvement, in the adult education system, and if we talk about persons aged 25 to 64. Then we're here somewhere at 3.5% of the adults involved in the education system. You are now talking about the availability of large EU funds for vouchers, which I welcome and what is right. However, my question to you is how do you intend to popularise adult education and encourage the interest of adults to engage not only through the campaign, but I ask you if you have made contact with other ministries, would through the Labour Act and other tax laws ensure the same assumptions and reliefs that would motivate adults to spend their whole life learning or inclusion in the adult education system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81795	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81796	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, the most visible and concrete example of inter-resorship cooperation is this one with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Science and Education, which is why, he brought out these vouchers. Of course, the system implies in terms of popularity not only through public campaigns and what is available to us but also intersectoral cooperation. The work is done, the departments at the Ministry of Science and Education have contacts and with other ministries how and what it will produce in this sense, which you have listed in the IRS, etc., we will see that, at this point I cannot tell you, but the fact is that we will, of course, have to, and we are, interrestically, because this is a very big story, there is 30 thousand people, it is a given 30 thousand people, a strong increase in percentages, participation in lifelong learning, and it is a great challenge to agree and here I call on you to, to follow how this process is going to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81797	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81798	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. Here I am looking forward to any change in the system of education and education because we know that in addition to the security and health of the nation education makes the country different from others. So it's always worth investing in knowledge. I have two questions about the external evaluation of education. Since there are 600 institutions in which to determine quality? It's a question of one. And question two, where are the high school stories in this story? So far, secondary vocational schools have been able to provide these services, but by reading these laws, and I have not noticed whether they remain in the system or have been expelled, and only these specialised educational institutions remain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81799	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81800	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course they're not out of high school. These standards will have to be met in terms of quality, but secondary vocational schools will still be able to educate adults in no way at all. As far as supervision is concerned, it will do as I did in reading the Agency for, for vocational education and adult education with the fact that, at the time when an external evaluation will occur, it will then be carried out by an independent commission and, of course, will be able to object there, and then the minister will put another level of control there so that this is the supervision and external evaluation of the quality system of institutions that will conduct adult education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81801	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81802	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Croatia has provided 6.3 billion euros in the segment, of course, for these vouchers and for adult education throughout the lifetime. We know that there are some conditions, especially for the acquisition of green and digital skills, and that this must be directed towards vulnerable groups. Given that we are 20th in place of economic social digitisation, and there is a particular kind of impact or sensitive village. our rural environments. I would like to put on your heart especially this segment because it seems to me that additional programmes should be designed to ensure that this entire life-long education is provided to the inhabitants of the village. Namely, some of them do not have a fast Internet available, and in addition the institution where they could be educated are 50, 60 km away, so I ask you to take this proposal into account in this planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81803	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81804	Thank you very much. Yes, it's a challenging task, we're aware of that, and I also think that I especially don't need to put it on my heart because I know what rural prostate is, I know what it means to come from such environments and what it is that bothers people who are trying to develop somewhere, educate in the country, perfect their skills, acquire new skills, and are practically physically and communicably away from larger centres. It's quite challenging, but I think, given the communication towards HZZ and other institutions when that campaign starts, I think it's going to come to everyone and we're going to bridge this communication and spatial gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81805	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81806	Thank you. Your Honor. We support, of course, this law and we support and we will always support every kind of education, of course, and life-long, but I would just like to do one thing. Distracted. The final proposal of the Law on adult education does not stress enough the acquisition of basic digital, mathematical and reading skills for adults with a low level of education or low level of fundamental skills. So, in this context, it is not enough to finance adult primary education because we are wondering what about those eights who have completed primary education, and yet do not have enough of that basic skills. They will, of course, have great difficulties, they are almost inability to get involved in the labour market, they can't even get involved in further education under these programs, so we're interested in how you've thought about this very sensitive I'd say to the group that if it didn't allow it some kind of the program to stay on the sidelines of society. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81807	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81808	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The registry is also designed to be updated and to be in line with the needs of the knowledge market, and the way life-long learning is not only directed towards basic education, but according to the categories it allows for all levels of HKO to consume what it wants to get, or those competences that a person wants to consume, and that includes, if we talk about green and digital technologies, of course and involving people with higher education, so it enables them to acquire new skills in parallel, and in that sense, if you think so. So nothing of this law has been prevented, and the way it will be implemented of course will be constantly updated and will have to be aligned with HKO.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81809	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, he's going to speak to a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81810	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, before us is the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education, which seeks to address the shortcomings identified by the application of the existing law in order to bring the whole system in line with those legislative normative solutions and strategic proposals. Certainly, the primary problem here is how to reduce the unemployment of a working-age population. Systematic adult education contributes not only to the development of individuals but also to its participation in social, economic and cultural development, which is certainly very important to highlight. It is also necessary to make it functional in order to enable flexibility and to ensure the quality of the labour market programme that enables greater participation in lifelong education programmes. The current system of adult education definitely needed certain changes because the market is inexorable and requires constant adaptations of individuals, which unemployed people rarely need to be helped by themselves. For this reason, it is necessary to insist on raising the quality of adult education programmes to ensure better flow of the system and to facilitate access to qualifications. However, more than 630 registered adult education institutions, as I have said since 11,000 education programmes, must undergo a transformation because they have obviously failed to meet their basic goal. We are aware that already the labour market is crying out for some occupations, and at the same time we have a large number of unemployed people, or we do not have enough personnel in deficits. As said in the debate in the first reading, it must not be overlooked that these are labour market needs or that it is pointless to educate adults in those professions whose labour market lacks demand to just satisfy the form and balance statistics. We also talked about the specificity of the environment and specificity of the programme, or of the interests for which adults are educated, and they must certainly not be and cannot be identical in all adult education institutions. It is important to see the structure of adult education in relation to the EU, as we stand, for example, with regard to additional education of highly educated people who want to gain new knowledge and better position themselves on the labour market. In this legislative proposal, there are not many words about highly educated people who want to continue to educate themselves. The good way to control the quality of adult education is also the fact that institutions will be required education and evaluation programmes to continuously comply with the qualification standard of the Register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which will completely change the current practice of implementing outdated programmes. This is certainly one of the important newspapers that needs greetings. Using the tools of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and according to it, an accredited education and evaluation programme, the most important prerequisite for the introduction of a quality assurance system for which reliability is based on external evaluation. It is also commendable for the obligation of permanent professional training of teachers in adult education, but not only of them but also of Andragogian leaders and directors. In my first reading, I spoke positively about the pilot’s project of issuing vouchers, considering it to be a good step but only if the assignment is meaningful or if the voucher is reached by those who really need it. And it's important that those funds don't end up in the wrong hands. This is the only way we will contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and the economy and improve the social blood count through the employment of more employable groups. It is indisputable that we are under European average when it comes to adult education, which is why we should certainly aim to raise awareness of the importance and benefits of adult education, but also attract them to benefit from the benefits of such education. In an economic dictionary, we must improve the visibility of this type of education, and this will certainly not be possible without one active action by all stakeholders, the state, employers and workers. The key changes adopted by the new law through a different approach to financing lifelong education with the aim of raising the quality and relevance of the education programme are the reason why the SDSS Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81811	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the following will speak to the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81812	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, as we heard the Law on adult education was first passed in 2007 after which it was changed slightly twice, and now here we have new and major changes to this law, this law with some here and good things. The good things in this proposal are the introduction of order into a large number of education institutions, a large number of programs, we have heard whether more than 600 institutions and more than 11,000 programmes. The introduction of a quality system into, into the entire system and the voucher for education. In Croatia there is indeed a low, low level of adult participation in education. According to Eurostat data, only 3.5% of adults participate in one of the educational programmes. The EU average we heard is 10.8% and the intention is to reach that average, the European average by 2030. According to research and Eurostat data, the most involved in these adult education programmes are the highly educated 7.5% of higher education students who participate in some form of adult education, and at least those without a primary school, although they need education the most. So, according to these data, only 0.5% of people without primary school are involved in adult education. Adult education is also recognised in the Education, Science and Technology Strategy adopted in 2014. Some of the main objectives in this strategy that are highlighted are the acquisition of transversal competences to an individual, initiative, entrepreneurship, learning as a teaching, culture of expression, social inclusion, volunteering, environmental, political and similar activists, parenting skills even creative artistic evaluation, expression and development of basic economic, financial and media literacy. And secondly, the adoption of knowledge and skills that aimly enable employability and greater flexibility and mobility on the market, on the labour market. This law is being announced and is expected for a long time, it is now being passed because obtaining funding from a series of European programmes depends on the adoption of a package of laws and so on. In principle, here's what I said. It wants to bring order into a very chaotic situation in education. Many registered adult education institutions are even fictitious without material and technical conditions to carry out their activities today. At present, there is no defined quality assurance system. According to the existing legal solution of an adult education institution, they are given a solution from the Ministry of Science for the implementation of formal programmes for adult education of unlimited duration, which leads to the implementation of programmes that are methodologically outdated, not in line with changes to the rules in individual areas, and therefore many programmes do not actually satisfy the current level, quality level, and now whether this programme will be implemented, this problem of the current chaos of poor quality may not depend on the law itself, but rather on the implementation and inspections that will be carried out on the ground. In principle, in this Law on adult education, it is defined as being related to training, training and formal qualifications, but the modern concept of adult education includes many other dimensions besides ensuring employability itself, e.g. personal growth and development, solving certain and social problems and the like, so in this law is whether or not it is about the development of whether or not it is. health competence of financial literacy, competence of active citizenship, which is particularly important for some marginalised whether groups which are insufficient levels of education are. It's getting more or less down to programs that ensure employability, but that's important, but not only, not only. Like I said, what's good through this law is the financing of adult education through vouchers is whether to assign and HZZ. It will be important to monitor whether the criteria will be to assign these vouchers. The criteria will be set out here by the Minister responsible for working with the consent of the Minister responsible for the economy, entrepreneurship and crafts and the Minister for Education. Relatedly, here is as I asked in the replica, for modern trends today here and at the time of the pandemic at the time of this crisis we saw a lot of programs being performed online, so online teaching, online programs that are increasingly common. Here's what's important to stress that... and such programmes should control or set the conditions for the implementation of such programmes, and it is important, therefore, who will control such programmes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first reading, what is the greatest number of remarks that have come to this law in the comments on e-consultation was precisely the obligation to hire teachers for full-time if programmes from 2 or 3 sectors are implemented. For many institutions, this was financially unsustainable because they have few participants and different programs that change from year to year. Therefore, such institutions should employ several people in a permanent working relationship for teaching, and it is not certain that such persons will have a full hour each year. Simply put one year can be a rush on programs I don't know the cobbler, the nurse, the other, the second year for some I don't know... operators and the like, so if these programmes are going through several sectors then they should all be employed by permanent teachers and many institutions, it is really financially unsustainable because they are more worth taking external people to contracts on a limited amount of time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The argument heard here is also in a law that says that the employment of permanent teachers will actually affect the quality of this program, in fact, this argument is not standing here because so far they may have been able to contract work and hire university professors, teachers of some who could, who would have been happy to teach, then provide a quality teaching process, and the institution would have been able to submit it financially. I say here it is now in the second reading that changed, so it is put to a minimum if programs are implemented in 3 sectors then it is necessary to hire a permanent working relationship teacher. Actually, here's what we'll see. We'll see what it looks like. The additional problem is that teachers who enter a permanent working relationship at an adult education facility are almost impossible to find on the labour market. In particular, remember we have problems with math teachers, physics, ITs, that is, some professional subjects, so the engineers of these professions have several times more pay in the private sector than in continuing whether or not these institutions themselves are the problem is where they will find permanent employment personnel. So here's what we're going to see with these changes and this restriction on, say, 3 education sectors that, if the 3 education sector programmes are implemented, will that be enough for these institutions to, to accept such a way and be financially sustainable. Most of all, all of this law brings order into this whole, the whole system, brings some improvements to education, the adult education system, and what it really needs to be, should be the goal of this is to raise the level and the average of whether adults who participate in one of the educational programmes and indeed this goal that we set for ourselves by 2030 is about 11%, in the meantime Europe will probably, as we reach Europe will go forward, so that we may be a little bit more ambitious in achieving these objectives. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81813	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81814	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed state secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Law on adult education, the Final Proposal of the Law, has already been mentioned that in the case of adult education in Croatia, the existing law was first passed in this House of Highers in 2007. changed several times. So, as we have said, according to the available data in Croatia today, we have registered somewhere more than 600 institutions conducting adult education and implementing more than 11,000 different adult education programmes. There are very valid reasons why this situation in the adult education system is improved, to pass a new law, primarily because of the fact that there is no currently defined quality assurance system that would ensure a quality and efficient adult education drinks everything on the needs of both the individual and the needs of the labour market. Under the current current law, and I say we are now making a new one, a solution to approve the work of adult education institutions is obtained from the Ministry of Science and unlimited duration, and that is a big problem. This also leads to the implementation of programmes which are primarily methodologically and materially outdated and which are also not in line with changes in the rules in certain areas, and which are also not in line with the needs of the labour market. And certainly what is a big problem for me is that there are no mechanisms to ensure the quality of the implementation of the education programme. And also, in my view, a major problem, various programmes are implemented by different experts in certain areas that are not sufficiently educated in one specific area, in particular discipline, which is an andragogy that deals with studying the way adults learn, and certainly in the existing regulation, adequate andragogical education is not prescribed for directors of institutions that educate adults nor for Andragogian leaders, nor for teachers who implement these programmes. And of course, in short it is necessary to really introduce order in the adult education system, and of course it is necessary to open up to the future, according to new trends. And as I have already said in the opening line to the proposing representative when we talk about introducing order into the system, it is certainly necessary, above all, to make the adult education system functional, to make it flexible, but also to make it high-quality. And what is important is to introduce a quality assurance system in adult education through internal or external evaluation, to enable a certain evaluation of previous learning and this is an opening to the future and new trends. So, what does previous learning mean? Any kind of learning that has been acquired in formal, either informal or in the same informative way that this new legislative proposal allows, and I personally consider it very important because it is also the intensity of encouraging and motivating adults to engage in lifelong education and to engage in the acquisition of new qualifications, and certainly all of this is accompanied by the introduction of adult education through a voucher system, which will facilitate the inclusion of adults in lifelong education. We also discussed the new Law on adult education at first reading, indicating perhaps additional moments that would improve and contribute to the better quality of the law in the second reading. And so I'm just going to say here what's important is the difference between the first and second reading, just here with the intention of reminding us of the difference we've made qualitatively with our observations either on different committees or on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, whether through individual discussions on previous readings. So some of the important differences compared to first reading, namely in art. Article 5(2), which provides for the conditions to be met by a person at the workplace of an Andragogian head, has been completed in a way that is explicitly prescribed that the working experience for meeting the conditions set out in this Article relates exclusively to the work experience acquired by performing educational jobs in educational institutions, therefore to institutions already in the system and I consider this a good formulation. Also in Art. 17th is added to the new chapter 6 which is prescribed that the award of vouchers for the financing of formal and informal education programmes for the acquisition of competences needed for work is not a administrative matter. Also in art. In Article 32(2), the reference of permanent members of the advisory section appointed by the minister was amended in such a way that instead of the words of the Croatian Employers' Union, the words of the representative association of employers and trade unions are higher. In the whole text of the final draft law in articles relating to the integration of qualification standards and education programmes or evaluation programmes, study outcomes are added, which I think is very important because in order to determine the qualification of the standard of interest, you need to start from setting out study outcome sets, and in this way these provisions are actually in line with the provisions of the HKO Register Regulation. Of course, when I mention the Register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the Croatian Qualifications Framework, this law is very much in line with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and I therefore consider it to be a major progress and a great opening to the future and connecting to the practice that we have in Croatia, but rather with the practice of EU member states. And on the basis of all that has been said so far, the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support the Final Proposal for the Law on adult education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81815	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative and vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, Sabina Glasovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not that I am not glad to see the secretary of state here with very valuable associates, but I would also like to see and hear the Minister of Science and Education more often in the Croatian Parliament and on the board. Because I think in this year and some of the mandates of this government, it seems to me that we've seen it on the board, and here, perhaps once or twice, with the exception of the current, current watches or hours, which is actually not, it's not very simple, and especially when a budget is proposed. I think the minister should also be more involved in the work of the Croatian Parliament and in the presentation of laws that come from the government but actually initiated by the Ministry of Science and Education. That's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, as the SDP Club, we will support this law because we believe and introduces a sort of order into an education system that is undisputed. Here we are today in replicas hearing legitimate questions as to how it is possible that for more than 500 educational institutions, pardon, which conduct adult education with more than 11,000 programmes, which are implemented with significant resources, which are generously singled out as from the ministry itself for the basic education of adults and the units of local administration for some other programmes, but also from the users themselves, the effects are not really what we would expect, because only 3.5% of adults aged 25 to 64 are involved in the adult education system, and it is the impression that this adult education system does not really communicate in the way that it should be with the market, the labour market. We think it is commendable for those 3.5% of people who are involved in lifelong learning, and thus also in the adult education system as one of its organised parts, that they recognize actually the reasons why they are involved in what they are because they will have a better chance of employment, because this will affect their personal or professional development. Likewise, to acquire some transferable skills such as the ability of critical thinking. Likewise, we must be aware that adult education actually has a great share and great importance in social cohesion, but also in promoting active citizenship. Because the moment it comes out of the formal education system, you can't actually fall asleep because the world is changing at an incredible rate, the labour market is changing at an incredible rate, and it's the only way you can in some way not only stay in trend but remain competitive, feel satisfied and that you can contribute to both yourself and society. But what, first, should I say what is good for us in this law, and then I will highlight just a few more things that I think there are still open issues that I would like to say to the end of this plenary session, to answer this question and to clear up first and foremost those who are in the field dealing with the system of adult education, and then to those who are users of the same. We support the content and intensity of this bill especially in the quality assurance part because this is what we are talking about and what we are talking about. If we are guaranteed more than 500 adult education institutions, more than 11,000 programs are actually quality, not and that is one of the key reasons why we are passing this law and that is something that is good. I would not reject the idea of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in some future becoming a roof organisation that will cover an absolutely whole system of external education evaluation regardless of what segment of education it is or what level of education it is concerned about. I know that at this point, it is not possible for the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education to still be perceived as a primary institution, and then externally values the system of pre-tertational education, but I would not reject an idea in which, in some future, it would become a truly roof institution that will both externally evaluate education and institutions and employees in those institutions from the beginning to the end. So from preschool to high school education. I think he can do that if we decide to strategically do that. We also support this law and develop a system of recognition and evaluation of previous learning with the implementation of HKO and the overall harmonisation of adult education with HKO, where it is fortunate that it has been before. The HKO law we have in 2013, we had 7 years actually to start with, but well, it's never too late. Also, the step of this law to allow recognition of informally and informally acquired knowledge and skills. That's what's good and that's what we support and we need to focus all our strengths and capacities on achieving that legislative framework and the goals that we set through it. I'll repeat what I asked the secretary of state in the replica. I am interested in ways in which we will popularise adult education, encourage adults to engage in it, and to actually raise this level of participation of citizens in the adult education system to the level at which many countries are in the EU. We are with Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Poland, Greece and Cyprus alone below 5%, 5% while we should, say, strive to be like Sweden, which is 28.6%, Finland 27.3 or Denmark with 20%. I think we can do it. Vouchers are a good thing, but what's not good is that we ignore this one, so that's where we're going to do a more powerful integration of the system of adult education and labour markets through strengthening deficits and through vouchers response to the labour market. However, I was personally opposed to this year's budget shrinking by nearly 500 thousand kunas, the means to develop the adult education system. So through the Ministry, I have also invested this amendment that has been rejected, means through this system, through the item of the Ministry of Science and Education is de facto funded by this primary adult education and training for simpler jobs and professions. In a situation where we go with this law, we show the will to do something more. When we go with the vouchers where we are going to address the problem of labour shortages in the labour market through the vacuuming of the deficit programme, it is inadmissible that at that time in the state budget we are reducing the resources for this part for the students of basic adult education and training for simpler jobs in the interests financed by the ministry. It doesn't have to be like that. Thirdly, I also believe that you need to communicate more strongly with other ministries that both through the Labour Law and through tax laws see how we can, through relief or through support, encourage employers and employees to lifelong learning and to engage in the adult education system. And lastly, what continues to worry in some way is our field of application. 18. who says that every adult education institution will be obliged to work full-time at least one teacher on every 2 or 3 education sectors depending on the programmes it has and the number of participants. We now have this situation, we have a situation in a mere open school or an institution of adult education where the Andragogian head is a professor of Croatian and history, a professional associate in education is an economist with a laid pedagogical PPD, and the director is a professor of Croatian and French language. What is asked as a key question will people who have pedagogical competences be able to be treated as teachers or employees, even those who have not completed the primary study? If it does not mean that this will mean new employment that goes to JLS, the same thing that we will later ask of them and through the new Preschool Law that is extremely good, but it is a huge burden for JLS financially and any other which may question its implementation. And lastly, what is also afraid of the institution that is on the ground is that it is actually yours to specialize in adult education institutions in order to specialise in certain areas and warn them, to the danger that in the smaller environments, if that is the concept, if that is what you want to achieve, and to get the impression that yes, it will be quite unsustainable because the programmes carry out periodically depending on the interest and the projects within which certain programmes are sought. So you have so I don't know the examples that actually they run in 5-6 areas, programs cost from 1,300 to 9,000 kuna, and it won't be possible if they specialize in each of these schools to ensure that they adapt to that concept. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81817	Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative, Plasimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81818	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. Although the law lays down some provisions that will affect improving the existing situation in the field of adult education, and we would like to thank you for your efforts, unfortunately it does not solve some important things and we would like to set aside four points that we at least think we should discuss further. So like this, in the area of education under point No. 1st adult government of a paratrooper or person who does not have formal Andragogic competences. Look at Art. The 7th century of the 5th century, which defines who can be an Andragogian leader, is sufficient to complete a graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate or graduate study or a specialist degree study plus 4g. working experience in adult education institutions, the law does not prescribe andragogical competences. Therefore, all profiles of professions, economists, lawyers, politologists and others can work in adult education despite the fact that there is an andragogy as a separate science dealing with the legality of working with adults and what is different from that of example. working with children or from pedagogy. The quality of work of the institution and the implementation of the programme rests primarily on professional staff. This should be an integral part of the quality assurance system in adult education. It is no good that the new law does not prescribe the obligation of formal Andragogic knowledge, and therefore it is impossible, and that is impossible in any profession. Point No. 2. The law imposes the need to coordinate all education programmes for adults with the Croatian Qualifications Framework or the Register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework in which standards and professions and qualifications standards should be. Despite the fact that the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework is what I asked the Secretary of State, adopted in 2013. a devastating situation in the register of HKO and has been introduced so far insignificant and insignificantly small numbers of standards and it is impossible to apply a new law on this basis. And now we're interested in the next framework, so let's see the ratio and the framework, so exactly the number of standards of interest, the standard of qualifications or the sets on one side that are in the register and on the other hand of all interests in the Republic, let's see that ratio. The register was spent through the previous years a lot of money, of course from the state budget above all, and the result is not good for it. The professional councils working on the assessment of standards through these two mandates have not made any shift, but members have been properly given increased fees and that is the information we have not received. Introducing a voucher, point No. 3 is a special question. Note the article. The 17th law, which states, will be for programmes implemented for the acquisition of competences necessary for work, and the criterion will be based on an assessment of the state of the labour market No 5 of that article will be evaluated on the basis of the evaluation criteria in accordance with the rules governing the labour market or other specific regulation. Therefore, not as other formal or informal programmes that will be based on the Law on adult education are subject to professional valorisation and, after expert opinion of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, will have to seek a solution from the Ministry of Science and Education to implement the programme. These voucher programmes will not go such a way that the law prescribes for all other formal adult education programmes. The programmes for vouchers will not be subject to such a procedure nor will they receive the expert opinion of the competent agency, nor will the solution or approval of the Ministry of Science and Education for the implementation of the programme be subject to some other rules governing the labour market." What are these regulations? Why is that an exception to the law? Because of the 300 million kuna from the EU, which will be shared by the Ministry of Labour and HZZ for programmes without professional valorisation? Point No. 4, the external evaluation of adult education institutions is carried out under this law by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. This is contrary to the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, which says that it only participates, I repeat, only participates in the implementation of external evaluations, and not explicitly implements it, and it is contrary to the NCVV Act, which explicitly states that this institution is carrying out external evaluations in the field of education and education, which includes adult education institutions because the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and institutions includes in the system of school institutions. Unfortunately, this law favours the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education despite the fact that the agency has a lot of employees and does not have any andragogics. The ministry shows contradiction with this bill, but also opens up space for issues of hidden intentions that want to achieve the proposed changes. In the activities of the NCVVO in Art. 4. The center law prescribes that the centre conducts external evaluation in primary and secondary schools and other institutions dealing with professional education and training. Implementing details are prescribed by the Implementing Regulation on how to implement the external evaluation and use the results of the external evaluation of school institutions which are in 2011. I brought no less than Minister Fuchs. The proposal for a new Law on adult education is set out in Art. 25. that the quality assurance process also implements the external evaluation of institutions and that this evaluation is carried out by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. That change includes a series of contradictions. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 88th century of 2nd, 3rd and 5th. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools in the section prescribed by external evaluation and self-evaluation of school institutions writes, point No. 2nd, No 2nd, No. The 2nd annual plan for the implementation of the external evaluation of school institutions is brought by the minister. The external evaluation is carried out by the national centre in No. 3. External evaluation of the NCVVO of this No. The 5th way of implementing the external evaluation and using the results of the evaluation of school institutions is prescribed by the minister. We would like to further ask these contradictions, and after the meeting of our club, we will make a decision in terms of support or not supporting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81819	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81820	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor. The adoption of a new Law on adult education is of course extremely important because in the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to ensure a quality and meaningful education of adults who will make it possible for each individual to improve skills and acquire new skills that are really necessary today. So these new skills that we need are not only important for the needs of the labour market but also of course for everyday life. For this reason we welcome the adoption of a new law that makes several significant positive changes but we will also try to warn about some shortcomings because in the time that comes, which is before us mainly think about the recovery process and, of course, the digital and green transformation of adult education will be a driver of change and therefore, other than what needs to be quality, must be flexible, must be inclusive and must be available to all. It's obviously not right now. We know that in Croatia the very low number of adults participating in education is only 3.2% while the EU average is 9.2%. And that poor education structure of the population is clearly related to poverty. And in addition to quality education programmes for children and young people who are, of course, our social role for the future, we can and must act now. The lifelong learning of adults is really something that we need and must become a reality in Croatia. In addition, the first principle of the European Pillar of Social Rights stresses that all have the right to quality and inclusive education, training and lifelong learning in order to maintain and acquire skills that can fully participate in society and successfully enter the labour market. In addition to formal education programmes, there is a greater need to support informal adult education, which is not only implemented on adult education institutions, but also implemented in libraries, is carried out in associations, local communities and the like because it is the only way we can make Croatia a society that is truly learning to benefit individuals and society as a whole. For the start of the Green-Left bloc, the state should participate more vigorously in financing the lifelong education of adults. According to this proposal for a law in the state budget, funds are provided for the implementation of a basic adult education programme and training programme for simpler jobs in professions, which we still do not think is sufficient. In practice, it is clear that public institutions which are primarily involved in adult education, so I think of the mere universities they are financed from the area of the budget of units of local and regional self-government. And that closes this sad vicious circle where the population of the weaker education structure lives in poorer areas whose local self-government units do not have the resources to invest in improving the education structure. And that is why the role of the state in these areas is crucial that the financing of adult education institutions depends not only on the local community but also on the state budget being actively involved in the establishment and financing of adult education institutions. After that, we believe that precisely because of this clear, clear relationship between the correlation between poverty and poorer education, all institutions dealing with adult education should have a commitment and scholarship and, of course, socioeconomic criteria. So, the scholarship of the poor but of course by the criteria of excellence. In addition, institutions financed by public funds must not charge for education. The law makes that clear, but we believe that the law should also lay down clear sanctions for breach of that provision. Valuation of informally and informally acquired knowledge and skills in order to allow recognition of previous learning without attending an educational programme itself, we consider it extremely important because it reduces time and costs of only education because we know very well that adults are often limited here, which is time and of course finance. In addition, the development of a system of recognition and evaluation of previous learning will improve flexibility in educational and career paths, vertical and horizontal passing and will encourage citizens to lifelong learning and actually continuously acquire knowledge and skills. Article 16 does not specify that possibility enough, so here we strongly advocate that it be concrete and then empowered by law. On, but this law fails to regulate and formalise the education provided by associations and other holders of informal education programmes and our proposal is to make such forms of education more flexible, inclusive and, of course, more important available through this type of partnership. Cooperation between associations and other institutions of informal adult education programmes with institutions of lifelong education would simply bring a wider range of programmes and would open up even more opportunities for more citizens to improve both their skills and skills needed on the labour market, of course, and also in participation in all aspects of modern life. Education, of course, and adult education in a globalised world are the only guarantees of progress, growth, development and certainly what I always repeat with science and culture should be priorities for both the Governments of the Republic and all local communities in order to be prepared for the great challenges that are evident in front of all of us. Increasing the quality of education and increasing the level of skills acquired are smart investment and an effective way to fight inequalities in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81821	Next on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, adult education is no longer an abstract category, is no longer something we talk about when we talk about education I would say on the margins. This should and must become one of the key discussions in planning our education system for a number of reasons. First of all, because the education that is acquired formally at the beginning of life can no longer serve the purpose that it used to serve. Things on the market, the requirements of the profession are changing too quickly simply for people to be educated for life, which implies, of course, adult education whether they work or not, whether their interest has become unrequested or not. So adult education has to become a standard, and I wouldn't say maybe some upgrade. Also when we talk about adult education and when we talk about new labour market requirements, they change rapidly. Some occupations disappear, die out for various reasons, because of the progress of technology, due to the collapse of a particular industry in Croatia, etc. And people have to be given the opportunity to requalified to continue education, to acquire knowledge and skills that will later serve them in life. As far as the second reading of the law ahead of us is concerned, it is basically good because it brings some newspapers that we consider to be steps in the right direction and that can qualify as qualitative shifts towards a better adult education system. Of course, there are still a lot of things that should be done. What makes me unhappy as a legislator is that some things will surely have to be further prescribed by sublegal acts, and that always leaves a lot of doubt, questions about how some things will work. Coming from the education system and I know very well that the law says one thing, some sublaws often say the other, sometimes they're in collegiate with each other, sometimes they're inconclusive, etc., etc. But let's think optimisticly that this is going to be right and a bona fide that the intention is good in purpose here I have no doubt. But I would point out a few things, a dilemma that would still remain for us to think about, either in future amendments and additions to the law, or in sublegal normation. First of all, because of the importance of adult education, I will join my colleagues and colleagues who say that the financing of this system cannot be left to local self-government units alone, that the state must participate much more actively, and here is the French from the debate on budget and voting on it, I also think it is not good that the funding items of this system in the budget are shrinking precisely because we think that there will be much more needs for this in the future. Quality control is also a very good thing. Something that should also become a standard in this system precisely because of the very diverse quality present in the system, somewhere better, somewhere worse, as much as possible should be standardised or ensure that some minimum quality exists in all adult education institutions. There are also dilemmas about the Andragog or who it may be. For pedagogicals, we have clear criteria, clearly prescribed education that you must have, with the andragogics it is not so defined, my colleagues quoted the exact provisions before me. I would also like to think about this segment in the future, not only of you as a ministry but also of the entire education system, because theoretically each of us with, with high expertise, can be an andragog, but whether it really prepared us for adult education. Well, I'd say hard to not. I've finished, say, teaching pedagogicals and I'm prepared for the education of young people, children, students, students, but I don't think that's what's qualified me for adult education. So the approach is completely different. He can gain experience, but it's a different story now. And here we come up with one more thing you'd like to talk about, and my colleague Raukar mentioned it in a different way before me. And this is a lifelong education and education that is acquired outside the formal education system. It's not regulated by this law or subject to the law, but I think it's good to say, and that's the National Qualifications Framework that as I said in the replica is kind of dead, it's lost our focus, and I still think since I was also one of the loudest discussions about it that this is a very important tool especially when we talk about adult education. Why? Because the National Qualifications Framework would actually allow adults to be educated and not just adults, all of them, but to be educated through informal ways, which would mean if someone started working as an andragog, now I'm setting an example from this law, doing this job for years, so I guess he's acquired some skills that, experiencedly clean, which can qualify him or can qualify her for such jobs. Also, colleague Raukar mentioned associations and other institutions that carry informal education, let's say the Croatian reconnaissance alliance, people who volunteer hours and hours, who work with children, who also those children who develop some skills through the work within the Croatian reconnaissance alliance acquire some experience, some knowledge, some skills from those I would not say banal, but simple types of binding knots to those who are still a little more complex organisation of work, teamwork as regards adults who work with them and pedagogical experiences etc., etc. So, the National Qualifications Framework is something that should be a very, very useful tool in adult education that we don't use enough. I, in my experience and subjective impression, at least we don't use it at all, and every time I talk about it, that's exactly what I'm talking about, and it always convinces me that we have enough money to implement it, but I don't think so. Why is NKO important for adult education? Because it can save us a lot of money. So when we talk about adult education, what this law regulates is formal education. So you come to the course, you come to requalification of classroom-controlled conditions or the same with practice, etc., etc. But what about those who acquire themselves outside the formal system, which is acquired in informal ways, and all of us acquire them in one way or another? If someone is, I won't say it, but for various reasons it does something that isn't in the profession and is not in the formal profession, let's say a waiter who's an assistant in the kitchen gets some experience, some knowledge of why he can't be qualified through these skills and knowledge at some point as an auxiliary chef, so formal, and maybe as a chef, if he's working on himself, he wants to advance, learn, etc., so these are all the things that should be dealt with by the National Qualifications Framework and which should be our main leverage and leverage in adult education except, of course, this formal education whose meaning I'm not diminishing but I'm just saying that at least by me should be. Finally, the vouchers in education are the same step in the right direction, but for a few more minutes I would like to spend my discussions on another problem, which is the synchronisation of the labour market or the need of the market and our education system. The formal education system is a strong trom, at least Croatian, in changing and adapting the labour market. We have innovative approaches by different universities of the school are much more rigid and are much more difficult to change, school programs etc., but what we should bear in mind is that HZZ every year comes out with a list of deficits, exits with a list of professions or qualifications with which people are largely on the bureau and these should be indicators of the entire system how and where to change. I'm afraid there's too many of us here, that these communications are gone, that the most common ministry that's in charge of the school system, above all high school doesn't take care of it so much, I have to be a little critical and say that we don't seem to be fast enough here. I don't think you're following it, but we simply can't implement it so quickly, and that's exactly why we should be a tool because it's much faster and more flexible and people who gain knowledge say outside of formal education or not necessarily in the Republic of Croatia, and yet by work and so on. So I can come up with some qualifications, I can jump into the labour market, so to speak, picturesquely, and then I can be employed in the deficitary professions that are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81823	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81824	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with Associates. So I'm not going to say any big news, no big thought when I say education is extremely important. We have, when I say, shown me this left hand side through the budget or amendments to the budget that were not long ago where we showed with a series of amendments that we went to the budget because we felt that certain items in the budget should be increased, improved, especially we went with the requirement where it was related to adult education. Adult education, especially at this time, is important. So, sometimes not long ago you educated and got a job, worked your whole life in that workplace and ended up and there were no additional educations or anything else that should have happened. Today just isn't like that. Some things that people are educated for, for which people have even passed and completed a certain school today are jobs that aren't and that's why it's important to make a move. But we're doing a shift in the law and all of us who we've been discussing and who we're going to discuss in that sense that what's in the law compared to first reading are improvements, but what we need to do is a step in reality. The step that is then seen from the financial part of the state budget is there for the state to do the job and the question of whether we are ready for this step and whether we are simply satisfying the form, not content. My kids used to say often at our mom's is always important and always asks that when anything we go to finish with the paper, so if you go to the dance class, then she asks you where your diploma is, where's that paper that you're done with. Likewise and here, it's always important that you end up living in such a world, living in a world where you have to do any process, the process in which you enter and which you do end up with some kind of paper. Now it's always that paper that finally qualified you for something. And here we come to the fact that at this point we have 630 institutions dealing with entire, therefore, life-long education and there is a key question of the quality of these institutions, the quality of those people who work in these institutions, the quality of the programs and the quality of really those who do this work. So, and there we always need, I always distinguish form and content as I distinguish in any law. You'll have the law, the form will be satisfied, but then let's see the content we need to satisfy. So, and it's always that relationship with the labour market. I always talk about those things that I kind of open up to myself to understand something. You in the labour market at this time in Croatia have a terrible shortage of people who are engaged in tourism, we have become somewhat attached to tourism, and I would say that I would not say that, but are facts, you have a terrible lack of labour that is related to construction. And regardless of the hopes of our government that, and through this budget, has said that there will be renovations, so there will be a refurbishment, and there will be an increase in VAT, it will not be if there is no one to work. Look at the workers who come to us and who are dealing with it, even we're the only workforce we're making is not the highly qualified workforce, our carpenters and our armymen are working somewhere else. We even have problems with that basic labor with the builders. Now, here you have the option of this lifelong education, which is extremely important, and it is important that it responds to the labour market, to respond to those needs that we have, for the needs of the work that we have. We don't need to educate people for occupations we don't have. When it was the subject of shipbuilding I said several times behind this pay phone we want to survive shipbuilding, if we want then they have a sense of both colleges and high school where children will be educated for it. If there's no shipbuilding, then we're educated for someone else. And I'm gonna end up with something that I've always got left in my mind and I'm always gonna mention it. There was one meeting after Croatia joined the EU that Mrs. Angela Merkel, who will certainly leave a mark on these premises and who turned to a delegation that was from Croatia and said the following. Everything that's worth it we'll take from you for the simple reason we can pay more than you can. What do you do to educate people?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81825	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81826	Thank you. Dear Representatives Mrak-Taritash, this custom of telling your children that it must end with paper, that it reminded me, of course, and I support it, even though you are aware that there are then people who only produce these papers, but now you have also mentioned to your children also fra Merkel, the mutti, which I am not quite sure now that it was for hers, but I know that in Germany the next amazing thing happened, and that is that people in lifelong education in the development of skills when they came to the degree of mastery, means when they passed from apprentice to the kalfa what was once called to the mastery and when their fellow masters from the dam told them that you were a master, at the end, they did not get to one ceremony of that master's degree but they had to print it from the internet to save them from Germany. I'm asking you to do that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81827	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81828	So things change. What was worth it and changing so quickly that the question of how much you can actually follow it all together. But one thing that doesn't change, you have to sit down, learn something, do something then and get some skills to keep them going. So let's go all the way, if someone wants to be responsible and consciously do their job as a parliamentary representative in order to be able to discuss something, I think all the time, you need to read something, you need to know something, you need to get into some kind of data, so I think that and anyone who does their job responsibly he needs to be educated for the rest of his life and get some new experience. I always like to compare it somehow with things that people are absolutely clear. A good ceramic who was good 20 years ago. He needs to know today that different glues and different ceramic tiles are, so he has to be educated for that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81829	Thank you. Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81830	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you said that in fact our educational programs that those in the adult education system and others in vocational education and higher education are not in line with the labour market. But look, we have recommendations every year for the education enrollment policy issued by HZZ. I don't know if there's any scientific educational institution or institution in our country that respects them. On the other hand, you have higher education institutions that say it is affecting their autonomy. We abolished the vocational education of dual models from cosmetologists, butchers, hairdressers who listened to theory one semester, second term went to practice, immediately after the end of their education they had a secure job. What exactly do you do? So we can say that institutions that work in the work ministry's work area issue one recommendation, and then actually our education policy doesn't follow that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81831	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81832	Thank you very much for this question. I often wonder if I'm dreaming or if it's real. We're the country where we are, he says this is going to show $3 million and 800 grand. We know exactly who he's dealing with. You don't need to be, some kind of big research to make you know that we base our economy on tourism and that we should also have tourism workers missing. I remember at one point he was, they were looking for cleaners. 30 reported, so a private hotel was looking for cleaners, which I read, so the baratam information I read, 30 cleaning girls or maids, 30 of them reported, came to talk to 2. You don't have to be that way to know that we need to be in construction now, but what we need to know is what politics is, and if someone doesn't respect something, let's just put a warning away and some kind of So financially punish him because we've been punishing him all along. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] talks between form and content, the form is satisfied, and in content [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] We're somewhere else. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81833	Now he will speak to a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a few more thoughts I'd share with you in an individual debate because I've been able to say a lot in the debate on behalf of the club. So, listening to your colleagues and colleagues, you have to distinguish what adult education is, which is lifelong education and what is informal education, so let's not constantly mix pears and apples. Although this is an opportunity to open up a lot of topics they intertwine, but they're not identical. And when we talk about adult education, and today we're talking about a whole other topic, we're talking about formal education, we're talking about education that's regulated by the state, and we're talking about education that is funded by local self-government units, but we're talking about a formal system. As far as adult education is concerned, so I said this law is a step in the right direction for the reasons that I have stated, of course there are some doubts, some things that might still need to be fixed. From what I've heard, some amendments have been submitted, so we'll see until the end of the debate in which it will go. Some things will, of course, still be normalized by sublegal acts so that we have a step in the right direction, at least for me. The aim of the promoter is to organise certain things more clearly, regulate, and that is good because we are talking about a set of formal education and, if it is an adult education system. What's certainly a topic that we can open on this occasion, but not to interfere with this legislative proposal is the relationship between the labour market and our education system, that's something I was talking about on behalf of the club, maybe a few more words about it. I still think that the formal system is difficult to change quickly, and the opportunities on the labour market are such that they change so quickly that it is impossible to track them. So, with the best intention and to evaluate, evaluate and think about it each year, simple curricula set whole new programs and so on. It's not exactly a job that's a piece of cake and it just can't be set up that fast. Where we need to be more flexible is systems of informal education, lifelong learning, etc. which can compensate, which can jump in, which can help the labour market to amortise this need by the time we have formal educational modules for these professions or for already some other skills that the labour market requires of us. And that is why I also stressed in my debate that I still think that the National Qualifications Framework is a very useful tool for this because it helps us to use all the other, all the other informal educations that our citizens acquire so that as I said, we can get to the rapid needs of the market, on the one hand, and on the other hand, so that we can also strengthen that so-called professions or needs of a new need created through the practice of certain professions. Now I find it difficult to explain this in general, but in some professions, and it's usually IT professions that change so quickly that it's simply impossible to follow them through any formal programs, so we have to jump to the informal system of education and in other ways, whether the profession itself is organised through different seminars, etc., whether people are learning about it on their own. You have a whole series of examples where people are self-taught, so people with some basic programming skills take and learn some programming language, take and learn a part of the work that needs to be done on the market. I'm in this layman I can't tell you about it professionally, but when programming applications, let's say I have a friend who's so prominent in the labour market it's completely informal. So the labour market doesn't even ask them for some formal qualifications, asks them to know their job. So when you take the job forming some app that you know how to do it all the way. It would be very good if such informal knowledge could then be categorized or formally recognised, it would certainly help them, and also the market itself, and that's actually the point when I'm talking about informal education, the qualification framework, lifelong learning, and this law as a law, I think I said that a step is in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81835	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81836	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague. I'm glad you actually said one important thing, you made a difference between education and lifelong learning. We have here the Law on adult education, which is carried out in five levels, it's important to say, and everything else is lifelong learning. So a man from birth to death should learn, but only at these five levels can he acquire a certain qualification for the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81837	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81838	Thank you very much. So when we talk about the law, that's one thing, and that's some formal ways, when we talk about everything else, it's another thing that's not regulated by this law, which doesn't mean that maybe it's not an opportunity to open up some issues and that the representatives of the promoters now hear us here, the secretary of state with their associates, maybe the general public who's interested in thinking about it, because the whole system of education was formally informally intertwined. But yeah, when we talk about adult education, you're right, so there's nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81839	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81840	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, on the basis of the experience from the discussion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, this is one of the few laws that was adopted unanimously that was really in the first and second reading discussions was very constructive and in this sense I welcome your debate, especially the parts where you clearly separated and explained the difference between lifelong education, adult education and where you emphasized that adult education is actually one possible form of whether involving adults in the process of lifelong education that has been going on through me since man was born, until he finished his life course. And it is very important to clarify and explain all these different forms of learning as formal and informal education, information learning, etc. and it is very important to explain the law itself to imply the levels of the Croatian Qualifications Framework from 1 to 5, so the last level is the fifth level, which includes secondary education, learning through formal, informal, informative, until the system of higher education is covered by the Law on adult education, but is covered by another, therefore, by a fundamental law, which is the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and this should be further explained to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81841	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81842	Thank you very much. My colleague, I may have missed it, but that's what I mean. We may have some who are usually involved in education or come from that system to some things are understood. But I'm saying, I'm not surprised by the unanimous support of the law because I'm saying that, I think it's a step in the right direction. Of course, no legislative proposal is perfect, there are doubts or holes to say figuratively that need to be completed yet, but this does not change the fact that this is qualitative progress from what we just had to put things to rest, to introduce quality control that should provide minimum conditions or minimum quality in all programmes, which is absolutely good. We'll see how the law applies, of course especially in the education system... The system, surely there will be even more changes and additions not because perhaps this proposal is bad but simply, practice will show that some things work better, some worse, and we hope to fix that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81843	Thank you. He will now speak to a respected representative, Ivana Posavec Krivec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81844	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am also one of the parliamentary deputies who will positively show up on this proposal for a new Law on adult education. I think that whenever we are able to talk about any form of education that we should talk about it affirmably and that it is actually our common duty to point out that society will develop, that it will move forward, that it will be progressive only when it absorbs new knowledge, when its population is more educated and when we can actually understand all those processes that are happening around us. And that's why when we talk about adult education, then we need to be aware of some facts. These facts are already highlighted several times in the Croatian Parliament here today, but we are again below the European average. And when we talk all the time in the assembly about the great funds coming from the EU, then we need to know that we are always talking about cohesion funds, that we as an EU member need to and want to catch an average with developed EU countries. And then we have to hunt that average in all segments of society. It is not enough to catch the average only in the economy, it is not enough to catch it only in some parts, it is important to catch it in all segments so that we can finally at one point be who we think we are, and that is space, space indeed European, European, European average. And then I worry about the fact that there is a low level of participation of our adults in education in Croatia, so we are about 3 times less than the European average. The contingent of our labour force is very limited, it has been shown by everyone, all statistics, it has shown, this labour market simply shows, so we lack labour force, and at the same time we have people who are still unemployed because they are largely inadequate to the needs of our market. The same people could acquire new, new qualifications not only through adult education, but also through other programmes. I am therefore interested today in how this good story, which is the story of vouchers, will actually be implemented in society, in which way will these vouchers be available, by which criteria, who will ultimately implement them, and will they be the fruit of cooperation and of precise guidance where the labour market has indicated the need? In fact, if we already see today that we have a need in the health system, that we have a need in the tourism system, then can we in some way predict certain possibilities if we allow the vouchers to have that very education so that these people will be part of our labour force's contingent tomorrow so that we don't have to import other people from other markets or that this voucher ends in a way that we can provide a new, new job through it, means that we don't spend European resources, not to throw them into the wind, and that people remain inadequate on the labour market after a certain education. We are a society that should be more pro-pulsant, a society that should be, we are small, which should be transformed faster according to the needs of markets that should be reacted faster, this showed us last year when we all found ourselves together in Covid circumstances and when the economic scene should have changed. We had a lot of problems where people, for lack of skills and competence, couldn't react quickly enough, some companies failed, and as the government reacted, reacted by helicopter means to the economy and saved jobs. The way she kept them, we'll see in the time ahead. Many have been able to reorganize new qualifications and change their production program.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81845	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81846	Thank you very much. My colleague Posavec, I think that regardless of these efforts, we will not be able to escape the fact that we will have to import the workforce. That's what's happening. So, for the purposes of our market, to work in tourism, we import for construction works people from BiH, or the labour force of BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia. I think it's already spread and we've exhausted these pools to keep importing. And for some other occupations for more and more of them unfortunately. But you're right when you say that we need to be as flexible as possible, as quickly as possible to meet some market requirements, to allow our people to requalified or acquire some other qualifications, but I'm afraid it won't actually reduce the need for labour or that the need for import will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81847	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81848	I fully agree with my colleague Hajdukovic. Here's one example of your recovery, a reconstruction that we already know we can't respond to in the workforce, that we don't have enough, enough contingent in the construction sector. I am very concerned when I hear these announcements about the rapid construction and restoration of Bania, about the large number of houses that will follow this public tender. I do wonder who will build it, what capacities in Croatia are the dry and montage building factory, all those masters who will perform these final works. And that we no longer only import labour from our neighborhood but also from distant countries. But also, at the same time, we export labour. Our people go back to their stomachs after bread to some other countries not only because it's better there, better wages than because their qualifications are there, more appreciated there and they are better, better respected workers than with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81849	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81850	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Posavec Krivec, I think you have well targeted this question in which way, according to which criteria, the vouchers will be directed. Because the adoption of this must have accelerated the fact that significant funds from European funds are at our disposal. However, it would not be good if these 300 million kunas available to us for vouchers or encouraging 30,000 users for certain professions should not be regarded as sharing money but smartly directing money. And I warn that precisely because Croatia has a chronic problem with managing human potential. So starting from the creation of education policies, from the local level where admission policies are planned in high schools in a way that preserves peace in chambers, and not taking the development potentials of a particular county, to the university where we look at years where we don't have doctors, where we need to invest, where we just don't do anything but give everyone a little bit, and we know that it takes us 15 years and 600,000 kuna to get at least for specializations... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81851	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81852	Yes, fellow Voter, and when do we get to those specialized doctors where they end up? Unfortunately, they end up on someone else's market. You've well noticed that this problem from the local community is still present everywhere and that's what I'm actually afraid of. In fact, we have now had a large number of unemployed persons on our own, at the Employment Service, who were allowed some extra education, some qualifications, etc., but it was mostly such a few programmes that were offered to everyone and then these unemployed people would go through some programs but still remain unemployed. So these programs didn't take them to the labour market they'd still be at that employment office and they'd just pile up their own, and their kind of, kind of like, how to say graduates that they are, so they're not the fuse that these people are going to be on the labour market tomorrow and they're going to be Economic independence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think this is our moment... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81853	Dear representative Puljak. Slowly, slowly, you have two more lines. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81854	Well, here's an esteemed colleague I just wanted to comment on that, this percentage of adult involvement in the adult education programme with us and in Europe, we said that three times, we're three times worse than Europe, and we have a target by 2030, is it in about 10 years to catch up with Europe? However, Europe will certainly in that period as we catch up to it, it will continue to run away from us, but it may not help us to catch up with it. The fact that the level of emigration is greater may affect these percentages. And just one more comment, here these financial resources provided for these programmes from the state and budget of the units of local self-government can also be used for third-country nationals who are on a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81855	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, yes, that average we're constantly hunting, but you've just said it's gonna be hard for us to catch him because the more developed countries to have the same rate of growth, let's say economic growth will be much faster, so that's how it is in every segment of society. The fact that people are evicting has reasons that are hard for us to accuse. When we were entering the EU, we were always talking together, and we're going to open up a big market. That's when everyone looked at it, we'd open up a big labour market, but we opened up a big market of opportunities, the education market, so our young people today can finish their education in some other countries, get competencies there, and I believe they're also coming back to us and they're actually developing society here. It would be our joint task to try to develop and influence the need to learn over and over again and again. And that getting a formal education isn't really enough. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81857	Honorable representative, Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81858	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. You've created a series of topics through your discussion, and one of the topics is, therefore, what I'm very happy to talk about, which is between form and content. We have the law in the law we all talk affirmatively about this law and we don't say, we say it's good, it's a step forward, it's everything and then we talk about content. And the content tells us next, which is that we have a terrible problem with labour shortages. One, two, three years ago when I said we had a labour shortage of about 70,000 people, I really thought I was out of line and talking nonsense. Turns out you didn't. You have shown through your discussion a fear, who will restore the space of Bania or Banovina, who will do so, where these building materials factories are who will work in them. And what should be and what will surely be in the future so those who have come from third countries and here and have no The competence that we're going to have to use some of the funds to educate them. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81859	Thank you. Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81860	We don't need to be afraid of that. It's a very natural process. So there are opportunities in this area and there are potentials and it's good that someone can recognize them and it's good that someone can come here and that can help us further develop and that we in some way fulfil that function that is here, but it's very sad that our government doesn't see what opportunities it currently has, that it doesn't create one vision and that it doesn't say that this could be a priority for Croatia. We could now determine this, this and this programme behind this and this program to vouchers and these people for this and that qualification that will then be employed in some new manufacturing industry, whether it is IT, whether it is a building, whether it is some third production, and tomorrow they will bring Croatia new added value. That's what I'd like to see as some new form that will come out of this law. Let this be a framework to create new preconditions for the new "Industrialisation" in Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81861	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81862	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable State Secretary from Varazdin County, attended. So, I emphasized this from Varazdin County, so we can really encourage ourselves to have an example of a good functioning of the University of Puč where a number of people acquired their additional education and became employable and contributed to the competitiveness of the county itself. However, what is not good and I therefore point out that in those areas, especially in rural parts of Croatia, this same service will not be equally available. So, this availability is perhaps what is the lack of this system because not all of the popular universities are equally qualified, equally good, and in that part we still have to be fair as a state in order to develop Croatia evenly through education, and this is the foundation and beginning to be available. So, that availability is what worries me in that law which is otherwise very difficult to understand, I must admit and... especially those who will be users of these services. A user who will, by means of a micro-qualification and by definition of the work definition of the European Commission, be able to carry this micro-qualification is to acquire knowledge and skills within and later within the qualification. So this micro qualification will lead to someone being justified getting a voucher, and we heard from previous statements that it is also unclear who will and how they will actually get a voucher. Voucher's going to divide HZZ and some other body and that other body, I don't understand why it wouldn't be clearly defined what body it is. So the process will go therefore, the employer will determine who will be able to be further educated or be the worker. That's unclear to me, so I'd like people to know that, and those who will be employees of an employer, and they don't get along well with the employer to be also in a good position and can be employable and gain additional knowledge from other employers who may be better for them. Of course, the law is welcomed, it is not welcomed that there is no foothold in the state budget. It is welcomed that it will also touch that part of education not only within the fifth grade of education, which Mrs Bedekovic pointed out wonderfully, but also concerns higher education in the part where it will be possible to acquire and learn foreign language. Right? It's a great thing, so it's also about these degrees of education and it's being hailed and it's welcome. So once again I welcome the role of this law in everything that Croatia needs, which should be improved, but only education and existing professions and within the school system I will tell you that within the professional professions are what students learn from, so textbooks at such a low level of modern time that today there is indeed something that is disastrous. For example, the builders learn those materials used 30 years ago, which are young people who come to the labour market, and I hope that this will be compensated in the mere schools or institutions of learning or physical students who will teach these new skills in this way. However, it should not be ignored in that part of the existing system of education that the part of professional professions should be adequately improved and with textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81863	Thank you. Comrade Bedekovic, are you mistakenly insinuating a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81864	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81865	The replica, yes, I assumed it was a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81866	Thank you very much. I must have turned the wrong way. My fellow Members, you spoke in your presentation on accessibility and you are somehow not convinced that through this law a new law will allow the equal availability of the programme of lifelong education throughout Croatia. I would not agree with your opinion here, because I believe that when it comes to the availability of the programme and in general about adult education, first of all, a network of programs should be considered, not a network of institutions. We now have 600 institutions, over 600 institutions, over 11,000 programs. When you look at it, it doesn't say that these programs are not available to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, throughout our country, 600 institutions, 11 thousand programs. What I need to think about through the law is the quality of the programme and the quality of the service we offer to adult education users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81867	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81868	I've been watching your entire law from the beginning of those who will attend these programs. So, since someone from a remote place will have a possibility where there is no public transport, there is no money to buy a ticket, there is no possibility of getting to where de facto that education is made possible, purely for the sake of that network, and those universities that have so far not had enough great staff, or now the new law allows them to actually hire teachers, but they do not have the capacity to report at all and become a system of adult education, so in that part I wanted to point out that the fact that they will be quite certainly made it difficult to get to those programs in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81869	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81870	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Barbara, you have mentioned here your fear that users may not have the same availability and equal opportunity. Now, did you only think about this regional approach and that something is only physically remote and that it is impossible to come to this, or did you think about this need for the quality of equality that these vouchers will be on the whole of Croatia, or that this high quality of uniformity is achieved and that this qualification would be uniform and it would offer new competence. For example, there are many women who are currently unemployable, and on the other hand there is a lot of need in the system from which you come and where you have, you have knowledge of social, social care and care for the elderly and the powerless, how do we achieve the balance that in all parts of Croatia we have the same quality to achieve a sufficiently qualified position that can respond to labour market needs?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81871	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81872	Thank you very much. So you can see that the entire area of Croatia does not have a system of providing accommodation for the elderly and the powerless. So, I can say from my own point of view, so also in that part where you need carers, you don't have enough of them, and it would certainly be necessary to sort of and direct over other indicators where the need is not only for the employer to have more people educated from a particular system there to create conditions for people to have where to put their older and powerless, to have where to put people in or to open up some new occupations through entrepreneurial programs or to run those, those crafts, those d.o.o. which would create new jobs in areas where it does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81873	Thank you. Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81874	Thank you. Dear colleague Antoliæ Vupra, we talked today about the tromility of the system here. I'm interested in your opinion, namely the SDP government is still in 2015. published a document called ‘Recommendations for the development of the quality of adult education and lifelong learning systems in the Republic of Croatia’. When making the document itself and these recommendations were passed throughout Croatia, local stands and workshops were created where local participants participated and where the problem of lack of local partnerships for the development of programmes that would meet the needs of the labour markets was listed, but already in 2015. Talk about the need for a new legislative framework, so I'm interested in your opinion on why it was waiting six years. to the adoption of actually a new proposal for a legal framework and the tromitude of the entire system to which we are witnessing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81875	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81876	I think that, that the answer is that the EU's funding has been waiting where it will actually be able to finance this programme, which is actually about the reactivity of our whole, our, our, our, our, our, our view of the education system where we, with a proactive policy, do not act in a way that we create new opportunities, but only react to when some of the funds we find answer and offer them the qualities to at least withdraw some of the funds we have at our disposal. Creativity, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81877	Thank you. Now she will speak to a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81878	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we've said a lot here so far about adult education, I believe that all the discussions were constructive and what I think here is still in our individual presentation to emphasize the fact that it is necessary to raise awareness of the importance of involving adult education in the system. It is necessary, as stated at the outset, to edit this complex and fragmented system. It needs to be opened up by new challenges due to the fact that we really live in a turbulent and challenging time of uncertain future, the time of other careers, the time of need for requalification, the narrow specialisation in order for people to adapt to the needs of the labour market, and at the end of the day it is also an important existential issue of the citizens of the Republic and certainly the key to involving adults in lifelong education or education during their careers is actually motivation. To motivate adults to participate in lifelong learning, lifelong education to reach European standards in some way. And here we had the opportunity to hear that Croatia is unfortunately lagging behind on this issue three times compared to the European average. And what may be important I need to stress that to practice, quality adult education requires a profession. And the profession that deals with adult education, or discipline, is an andragogy. We haven't talked much about andragogy, so I need a few words to speak. So why is it important to put emphasis on andragogy when it comes to adult education? First of all, because of the fact that older students or adults have different experiences on which they base their learning in later years which are very important and therefore learn in a different way than they teach children in the educational system, and of course I will remind myself that somewhere up to the beginning of the 20th century, the only known term associated with learning was pedagogy while andragogy as a scientific discipline begins to appear about the 50s of the last century and of course begins to be used as a term for learning about how adults learn. And I certainly stress the fact that adult education institutions should first and foremost be led by Andragogian leaders and directors who are andragogically further educated and teachers who are trained to work with adults. So these 3 profiles, three professions, means teachers, directors and Andragogian leaders who have adequate andragogical education. Now, what is the situation in Croatia with the andragoz and teachers working in the field of adult education? So maybe there should be some analysis. What we can see, I'm sorry my colleagues Troscott doesn't have he spoke about the Croatian Qualifications Framework and that there is no registration in the register, I disagree with him. I have reviewed the Croatian Qualifications Framework and you in the Register of HKO have enrolled interests, professions, standard of the profession of andragog and standard of teacher's profession in adult education. In 2019, the interest of the andragog in the qualification framework was entered with 10 sets of competences and 8 key jobs enrolled, and the interest of teachers in adult education in HKO was entered the other day, more precisely 17.11. this year with the corresponding 7 sets of competences, 8 key jobs. So, we in Croatia currently have a defined standard of profession and and andragog and teachers in adult education, where teachers should teach, andragogues to be heads of institutions, Andragogian leaders, etc. This entry will just remind me, mentioned in HKO's Register for this is due to the Faculty of Philosophy in Split who worked for 4 years a major project funded by the ISF. So we have a basis, but what is important to point out for practice and for the future and put an emphasis on it, so we have a standard of interest, but what we do not have, we still do not have the opportunity to study for teachers' profession in adult education for the profession of the andragog. That's where I see the opportunity and the space for colleges and high schools to open specialist studies, to open postgraduate studies. study in the area of andragogy. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81879	You have several replicas. The first is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81880	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bedeković, we come from different parts of the Republic of Croatia and we will agree that the Republic of Croatia is a country with prominent regional differences in all areas, as well as in lifelong learning. I'm going to look back at something you mentioned in your previous line that when we talk about the availability of both spatial and accessible educational programs. We often face the situation here in Ličko-Senjska County that we have a poorly developed network of institutions but also available programs. What has been repeated for many years, some new programmes are rarely introduced to monitor the state of the labour market. And it is up to all of us to help and motivate existing and new institutions to turn to creating programs that need to be created on the labour market, and not as often as it happens that education is created, programs are created according to the possibilities of the institution, not according to what is sought on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81881	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81882	Thank you very much. My colleagues absolutely agree with you, which is why I said, so I am stressing again now in Croatia in the system we have over 600 institutions and 11,000 programs. You know what 11,000 programs mean? The part of which, with all due respect, is probably, has, not likely, but certainly great programs adapted to the needs of the labour market and the current moment at which I live, however, we live, but there are a large number of adult education programmes that are methodically non-adulterated and that are totally out of date and are not in line with the needs of the labour market. So what we should put an emphasis on, I repeat again, on the network of quality adult education programmes. The institutions have, as far as they're evenly distributed by the Republic of Croatia, I don't have an analysis right now, but we have 600, but what we're predicting by this law, these are vouchers. So our user will be somewhat less important where he will go to the training program. It's what he's gonna be like because he's gonna get his funding. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81883	The next replica is a respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81884	I thank the Vice President and the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues here you yourself have said about education in Andragogical, we have said over 600 institutions, do you think that we have enough educated people who can be heads of these institutions, whether in the course of the study of pedagogy, since you come from higher education you could acquire certain competences. And number two does it seem to you that we are promoting enough to attract people without qualifications to be educated in specialist institutions so that they can be competitive on the labour market or they are satisfied with leaving Croatia without this education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81885	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81886	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, these questions are very, very important and I thank you for them. So, as far as opportunities and sufficientness are concerned, let's say the current formal education in the area of andragogy you mentioned well, so, according to my knowledge at university studies of pedagogy at different universities or universities in Croatia, so listen, listen to a college called Andragogy. So, within the entire study program that lasts 5 years. If we want to talk about serious adult education, then we need to work harder on it. That's why I said this is now an opportunity for high schools, universities to think about specialist study programs that will have an emphasis on Andragogic training because I'm stressing again we have a standard of profession. Andragog and the teacher in the adult education system are therefore the basis here should now be worked on in practice. And... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81887	The next replica is the esteemed representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81888	Thank you. Here you go, because here's a part of my question, actually, and it's part of this, but I think your debate can agree that the current law certainly wasn't at the level of today's needs that it is. Education should certainly be followed by the labour market, and it is important that we also touch these vouchers. I consider it a good step. However, if the vouchers were to be effective, we should carry out a good campaign and you mentioned the motivation of future people who will be lifelongly, adults who will be educated, and I am interested in other than the institutions that will carry it out, and you said that here they are in answers and more quality programs intended for the labour market, perhaps digital, green technologies that follow us because more and more people are actually focusing on it, for example. smart intelligence, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81889	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81890	Thank you very much, dear colleagues, for asking the question, and then, by the way, in response and colleague Simičević, who I have not arrived. Yes, it's a very important motivation because I'm going back to the beginning of my debate. So adult education, the possibility of requalification, the acquisition of additional qualifications is a very important existential issue. We are facing the fact that people are going to work abroad, so they remain empty jobs for which we need additional competences of narrow specialization, etc. and in this sense is involving adults in lifelong education as a process through adult education, acquiring additional competences is actually very, very important for filling holes in our labour market, and this requires an extremely important motivation. Among other things, through vouchers, but also through other public campaigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81891	Next replica, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81892	Dear fellow Bedekovic, I very much like what you have opened up to the subject of the Andragog, people who should actually be qualified to educate adults, whose profession it is. I think that in Croatia it may be too little in the general culture of knowledge that to educate an adult is not the same as to educate people in the regular educational process. The most difficult thing in my opinion is to get a man back into the education system, to get to the stage where the very person who needs that qualification will have to break with himself and find out I can, I want it, I need it, it will allow me a better quality of life both for me and for my family tomorrow. But when they return to the education system not only are they older, not only are they harder but they and some basic qualifications are missing so that they can monitor this education system. How much do we need to adjust? to make it all work. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81893	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81894	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I thank you for this question. Yes, this is a very, very important topic, and that is why I opened the issue of andragogy in the end as a young scientific discipline that began to develop within the framework of systematic pedagogy during the 50s of the last century, and that is to say, if you add it up only 70 years ago. In order to develop a scientific discipline with its own methodology, approach, the subject of research takes a certain time only to 70 years of development of andragogy and time will show in which direction it will go. I agree, in fact, I'm glad that you agreed that, therefore, andragogy as discipline and expertise and staff in the area of andragogy needs to be given extra attention. We don't have enough andragogics, I don't think a college in pedagogy studies is enough to be an Andragogists. And here's more about the way they learn adults, about the importance of andragogy there's a beautiful monograph of the Faculty of Philosophy in Split called "Back to the Future", so which considers and describes the results of this research. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81895	Next debate, respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81896	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of HS, respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today is the second reading of the Proposal of the Law on adult education, I will remind you that the first legal framework in this area we received away in 2007. the vote of the Law on adult education, and therefore this continued on the adopted Strategy for adult education in November 2004. It took many years, decades and more to finally have a new policy framework for adult education and lifelong learning that we can say all together today is quite outdated. What bothers us all here as much as I have heard in the debate, of course that the low participation of adults in education is because according to Eurostat data only 3.5% of adults in Croatia participate in some of the education programmes while the EU average alone is 11.1%) according to the latest available data. However, what is even more worrying about statistics and data is certainly that adult education and education are the most involved in adult education and education, with the fact that only 0.5% of people without primary school are involved in adult education, and we will all agree that this is actually the group that needs adult education and lifelong learning the most. Another issue concerns the data and research carried out by the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults itself, which is in fact a great proportion of the possibility of participation in lifelong learning towards types of education and learning, given the degree of urbanisation. Today, in Croatia, subjects of densely populated areas who participated in this study participate to a greater extent in lifelong learning than subjects of medium and rarely populated areas. We can therefore testify that the result of this is, of course, the existence of a number of institutions providing education services, a higher number of courses, seminars, a higher number of workshops, a greater possibility of private lessons, learning centres and, of course, a greater number of foreign language schools. What's really bothering me, and that's what I was talking about in my replica, is that we're still 2015. We have made recommendations for developing the quality of adult education and lifelong learning systems in the Republic of Croatia, and we are still in 2014. The strategy of education, science and technology which has brought itself HS defined adult education as an integral part of a whole system of education based on the concept of lifelong learning. However, it had to be 6.7 years ago that today there would be a new policy framework for adult education. What I personally think is that in our country, a long-standing strategic agreement is needed in all segments of education from primary, secondary, tertiary, pre-school and to this adult education and lifelong learning, not to change policies as the government changes. We talked here today about the experiences of good practice from Scandinavian countries, so, yes, they are just successful because there are strategic agreements that last 20 years, especially in terms of education, health and social care, and it doesn't matter who's in power, it shouldn't matter. What I would like to stress today is that it is certainly the comments of the profession, since I have been approached by several popular universities in the Istrian County and universities involved in the work of the community for lifelong learning at HGK, so I repeat these are joint comments and those universities that are financed partly from local, therefore urban and county budgets, but also those that operate on the market. They are particularly concerned by the article. 17, which they say is very wide and unclear, is an article that refers to funding through vouchers and as such says it gives the possibility of a diverse and broad interpretation. They also stress that the renowned universities supported the adoption of a stricter law, a law that defines the conditions of establishment and lays down the correct rules of the game. So far, we have had the situation that almost all legal forms of providing education services have been the easiest way to establish an institution. They stress from those universities that they have advocated that not everyone can do everything and that the law must clearly stand by the profession, define who should deal with education and what conditions it must have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81897	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81898	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. I'm going to look back at something you mentioned in one of the previous replicas and I'm glad you mentioned it, which is a recommendation for education policy and a scholarship policy for HZZ, which also mentions deficits. And you wonder if anyone's using them. So that's what I'm asking myself because for many years as an employee of the Employment Service, I've been involved in making them, and I know how focused they are, how detailed they are, even at the level of cities and municipalities. So, indeed, everyone has a chance to look at them and build an educated policy on them. And now I wonder if the responsibility of education institutions, schools, local self-government units and regional administrations that often create educational programmes according to some of their own capacities is both material and human, and thus creates an even greater proportion, disproportionate supply and demand on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81899	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81900	I thank you for this question. Yes, I'll agree with my colleague Hajdukovic, these are pears and apples today, but we've opened that topic. So I think, in fact, that the key problem is to ensure quality in the area of higher education itself, and we need to change the law itself in that direction. I repeat, I do not only know how the issue of the constitutional category of university autonomy will be resolved because whenever high education institutions are tried to comply with issued recommendations for the HZZ education registration policy, all universities have called for autonomy and this is a question that must indeed be dealt with legally and therefore all together should work on finding a solution to this problem. Of course, those participatory actors must be local units, especially regional ones, which must clearly indicate in their strategies the study programmes and quotas for which they have needs, as they therefore issue a licence for a specific study programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81901	The next replica of the respected representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81902	Thank you very much. My colleague Radolović, I didn't even know this information that out of 3.5% of the people involved in the education we treat as adults is one large majority of higher education students, and 0.5% of people who don't actually have finished primary school. But so much more, this also confirms that one part of my debate and disdain for the refusal of amendments in which it was asked for stronger financial assistance from the Ministry of Science and Education, which in principle singles out or finance basic education programmes because it is crucial, that is the elemental part. And now what I'm still interested in, except for this extra financial support, which are the ways in which we can actually make people aware that there are programs of how they can come to them and how to make them somehow available to citizens who may not even know where they can attend and what are the conditions to join.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81903	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81904	Thank you for this question. Yeah, that's a big problem, but what I haven't yet been able to say is that out of those 0.5%, 90% of them said that their basic problem is not even the availability of the programme, that they know that there is a price problem for them, and that's where we get the key problem. Some progress took place when these programmes from the European Social Fund were financed, and therefore gifts from European funds. However, we must be aware, you yourself said there has been a number of amendments, quality amendments from the opposition benches, I don't think it should have been done because I repeat, these research participants themselves have said that their availability is not even a bigger problem for them, and this is a key and basic problem for the adult education programme itself and it simply begins to be a greater representation of the attendance of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81905	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81906	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've opened a series of topics, but one of the topics that is particularly interesting is that continuity to us after 3-4 years. From the moment we actually have the consciousness that something needs to be done by the time we have the law, then there are some options being changed, so it takes a certain time for one option that inherited another to realize that something that's left behind is good. I think you can see that continuity behind one government when another comes in all the pores, but what you can see is in this education. You see, adult education, that we're all here no matter how we stand up for it and everything. Therefore, it seems to me that this is all going slowly together, it seems to me that the time and changes that are going much faster than we are willing to follow, and then it is no wonder that Croatia is really at the bottom when we look at other EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81907	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81908	Thank you for this comment and question. Well, yes, we can bear witness to this discontinuity not only in the area of adult education and you yourself said you remember only the curricular reform that has received the European Commission's green light, it has been praised by the European Commission as actually the best educational reform in the EU area to be carried out by a member state, but with one move of feathers it has been deleted. And that's what I'm talking about, so we've come down to the issue of education on whether or not religious science is going to be in schools. I don't think it's a topic, that any compromise on everything must be made and repeated, in all segments, types and levels of education Croatia should have a strategic agreement, not at 4g. It's 20 years old. as the Scandinavian countries have, and this is the only way towards success of any adult education, any preschool education that we will later discuss, any issues of higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81909	Next debate, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81910	Dear Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking adult education, other words of mind to the head. Smart in the head for what reason? Because in some things, we're out of control, and we don't know what we need, we don't even know how to formulate, we don't know. I'll go with one, and if I get a little more specific examples. I'm afraid, too, that the introduction of vouchers is the same as it is that it won't turn de facto into a money laundering factory, as well as all kinds of donations. And I am not worried at all that the voucher will end up with a worker who is looking for a job that is on the desk so that he can requalified himself as a ceramic and I don't even care if he's going to work in Austria if he has a residence in Croatia, because if he has a residence in Croatia, so we're talking about the system and we're part of the EU, it's one country and one labour market only because many of these conuktures haven't gone into the head yet, and let alone the smarts and doesn't realize that by keeping the residence here he'll have to pay the difference from the income tax of the Republic. That doesn't even know who's going to work there. So I want to say the money that's been spent will come back on condition that it's a ceramic. But we have another theater of absurdity. We are talking about a recovery plan so on a recovery plan, resilience, etc., we will have a bunch of European projects looking for a bunch of competitions for people who understand themselves in European projects. Does the EU ask for a qualification in the award of money from the Republic of Croatia that these projects must be guided by someone who is a certified head of European projects? No, I don't. And one more thing. If we are talking about European projects, how can you even be qualified as the head of a European project? One of the programmes is reconstruction and energy efficiency, it is a kind of highly specialized when we talk to European projects. And the other thing is, let's say, getting and implementing money for this law that we're talking about today. A completely different story, a completely different story, so you can also find specific names and last names if necessary that people who went through Erasmus Placement from this country to work at European Commission agencies when they come to Croatia cannot work in, cannot work in, on European projects because they are not a leader, and before that must go to a private institution de facto buy it for 9 to 12 thousand kuna. That's our reality. That's why I say brains to the head. And then people go where they take these projects to other countries because thank God it's about young educated people who know more than three languages. That's what's happening to us, gentlemen. This isn't just about ceramics. At least we'll lose at the ceramics, I mean every honour to the ceramics, and I'd like them to stay here, but it won't depend on whether they get a voucher or not, but it'll depend on the price of the work I think I've talked about in this assembly more than once. And now I'm moving on to the Croatian Qualifications Framework because I but related lifelong learning de facto will have to study for how to find on the website of the Croatian Qualifications Framework what are catalogues or what are knowledge, skills and abilities when someone acquires, acquires this qualification as a leader, so let's say that if I'm an employer, put on a tender, the law obliges me to have a leader, a head of the European project and see what that man knows. And if I go to look for it on the web pages what this man knows, what he learned from an institution I don't know because I can't find it in the Croatian Qualifications Framework, it doesn't mean it doesn't exist, but I can't find it on official websites. Why? I'm not saying that this one, but the fact is that it also had IT experts but those IT experts obviously don't do user-friendly, user-friendly pages. Di is our reality, so we on websites generally don't have the availability of information but we only have them to have them. If we're going to deal with.../incomprehensible/... then this is the law we're going to talk about reforming something, we essentially did something for this country, we didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81911	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Rade Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81912	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, here we are, we like to say that winged knowledge is power, but when we look here at the assembly, then we couldn't quite say that about us MPs and even question that saying they said long before smart people. The final proposal of the Law on adult education just wanted to say before we make the difference between lifelong learning and adult education. So through adult education we acquire a certain qualification within the Croatian Qualification Framework from level 1 to level 5, meaning from primary education to level 5 professional studies where less than 180 ECTS points are achieved. In the section relating to the professional special training of the Croatian classification framework, qualifications standards will be proposed in accordance with the regulations regulated by the HKO. The Agency for adult vocational education will adopt expert opinions on the compliance of the programme with qualifications standards, and a solution to the implementation of the programme will be made by the competent education minister. Also, institutions that will be required to continuously align education programmes with the Standard of Qualifications of the HKO Register, which will completely change the practice of implementing outdated programmes so far. The quality assurance of adult education institutions includes internal, internal and external evaluation. The internal quality system will be provided by the institution itself, and the external evaluation of the institution will be carried out by the Professional Education and Education Agency on the basis of an annual plan or at the request of the institution, or if there are reasonable reasons for that. The institution, which will be reassessed twice by an unsatisfactory quality level, will permanently prohibit the implementation of approved programmes. We in the Republic of Croatia have more than 600 institutions registered for adult education and implement more than 11,000 educational programs, so whoever wants an offer and can obtain a certain qualification. There is no defined quality assurance system to ensure quality and efficient education aimed at the needs of individuals and the labour market. Since many institutions implement an extremely large number of programmes from different sectors other than human resources, some of the conditions for teaching are also questionable. One of the goals that the Republic of Croatia needs to achieve during the upcoming period is to encourage and thus increase the number of adults participating in lifelong learning especially those with a lower educational level. National development strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030 aims to reach a rate of 10.8% as currently in the EU, and unfortunately in Croatia we are below that, we are at 3.5% of the population being educated for life. One of the most significant changes is the introduction of funding for lifelong education and adult education through vouchers for those programmes that are in line with the needs of the economy. 300 million kunas and 30,000 users' participation by 2026, I hope we know and can use it. The most money an individual can get under the voucher is 10,000 kuna. Here we have perspectives, we have opportunities I want to encourage all our citizens and citizens to engage in education, to acquire certain qualifications or requalifications so that they can compete on the labour market. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81913	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81914	Thank you again, dear vice president of HS. As we did in the opening argument at the club's point of view, we said that we would support this law, which I will finally determine here. Why are we going to support this bill? Well, because we believe that the policy framework for adult education and lifelong learning has become extremely outdated in teaching the law that was passed away in 2007. However, we believe that although this bill introduces some order in the chaotic adult education system that the bill itself should be further updated, as we have warned at the meetings of the Assembly Committee on Education itself, and this is evident from the results of the public consultation carried out. What is particularly worrying throughout the adult education system is certainly that the system of adult education and lifelong learning is financed mostly by the students themselves. In addition to these, fewer programmes are financed by state and local self-government employers, and state funding was implemented most on the basis of competitions from the European Social Fund. However, we are all aware that it is not on some kind of firm foot and that we depend heavily on the EU's resources then. I will repeat that according to the research carried out for the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, the prices of adult education and lifelong learning programmes themselves are the reason for not participating in adult education, and the main concern is that only 0.5% of those without primary school participate in adult education. It's one very devastating piece of information, and I think we all need to work together to change that as soon as possible. It also worries that participation in lifelong learning differs depending on the types of education and learning given the degree of urbanisation itself. Of course, those living in densely populated areas have greater availability of participation in lifelong learning and adult education than subjects in medium and rarely populated areas, which must also be changed. I will also remind you of what the profession considers to be still controversial in the law itself, in particular, art. Article 19 17. Art. In the 19th case, it shall refer to the initiation and conduct of a criminal proceedings for some of the offences referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, whichever is the case where the person is actually moving away from the workplace until the criminal proceedings are suspended. What I have been commented on from private mere universities and those financed from local and regional budgets find it controversial for example that in the case of private institutions financed exclusively on the labour market, such a provision additionally burdens the work of the institution because the outbreak of workers in the long term while the trial is ongoing makes it impossible for normal working processes and is very likely to require additional employment from the institution in terms of additional employment. In institutions founded by local self-government units, this treatment, however, says it favours so-called. to the love and actually to the unworkers whose vanity of the judiciary goes hand in hand. This way, of course, extra taxpayers' money is spent, and no one can guarantee at which point the person concerned will be found guilty or innocent. This is actually one of the shortcomings that a large number of people received during public consultation, as well as in the comments I asked from institutions in the Istrian County. And so again. 17, which was actually attended by the largest number of objections in public consultation, which relates to the financing of vouchers, is said to be very broad and vague and as such gives the possibility of a wide and wide interpretation. What the profession says is that the law should stand by the profession, define who should be involved in education, and of course what conditions it must have in order to bring order and raise the quality of the programme offered on the market. What is particularly important in this respect is that we reduce the gap between the skills required and the competences on the labour market and the school programmes. Today we have had the most discussion, I think that we have made some good constructive conclusions and that we all agree that educational entry policies, quotas in primary, secondary, tertiary education, adult education, lifelong learning must be adapted to labour markets because this is how we will finance EU money something we don't really need. And so I'm going to say that the very performance of education in adult education and lifelong learning should be at a level that will encourage individuals to further improve and engage in lifelong learning processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81915	On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81916	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. At the beginning of this final presentation, I will say that we have received an amendment from the representative Jelkovac that we accept. He is nomotechnical in nature, namely in art. No. 35th century. 6th century. 4 is replaced by the following: 5 and 7 p.m. 5 is replaced by the following: 6th, with the explanation of the proposed amendment, we correct the wrong call for the provisions of the article, so we accept it and thank the representatives of Jelkovac, and we have received other amendments which we will consider and whether to accept or not to declare before the law is passed. I also think that, in the replica of representative Raukar, it remained unclear or my answer was not satisfactory, so I'll just say it. Therefore, as far as the basic skills are concerned, funds amounting to 10 million kuna will be financed, and in addition, the Ministry of Science and Education has already developed a curricula for the acquisition of basic skills and a teaching programme for teachers who teach basic skills. One part of me answered that in the replica to another question, but here's to make it clearer here. I thank you all for the discussions and for the replicas and for all that has been given in connection with this law. I think there's a good vibe to be voted on, but here in this final word I'm going to give one more, try to give one more of what we've heard, so I'm going to say that we're introducing quality into a system that's going to affect, to increase the number of people who participate in education and through the voucher system we're going to include the education of employees, so far largely funded education as you know the unemployed. We are aware of the necessity of all stakeholders from institutions to employers and therefore we prescribe an inter-resor body that will monitor and improve the system. We tie the programmes tightly to HKO and that ensures their relevance and no more unlimited duration programs. I note that the HKO registry is also filling in, there have been a lot of remarks, but here I'm going to say 333 standards waiting to be entered into the register at the moment. We will not ignore the low-educated person, nor the people in rural areas, through the funding of the education programme for the acquisition of basic skills and further development of online teaching. As regards online teaching and online work, I note that the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults will give approval in an expert evaluation for the implementation of online teaching if it... on the appropriate one. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for persons who are now employed as Andragogian leaders, they can continue to work, there will be no need for cancellations. As far as Androgogical competences are concerned, I stress that the law prescribes the obligation of continuous professional training of all employees in the adult education system. It was very comprehensively explained. It's true that androgogy is science, it's true that it hasn't been introduced yet as a study programme, but it's close to that, it's true that it implies constantly and is just an example of lifelong learning. And as a college in pedagogy, I personally have an example, my father taught a branch of androgogy, a penological androgogy because he worked at a Penal jurisprudence in Lepogla, although he was a formal teacher, he had to train himself professionally to teach law enforcement officers, for example, penological androgogy. Furthermore, I particularly stress that the Agency for, for the vocational education and education of adults has for many years been implementing a very valuable project Kurikulum global, aimed at acquiring androgogue competence, which has been completed by a large number of professional leaders and teachers in adult education. In addition, the HKO registry also includes standards of interest and standards of qualifications for the Androgogue Head, and soon I expect study programmes as I have said to acquire exactly the profession of the Androgogue Leader. Besides, it's inscribed and... interested teachers in adult education, and here we expect that the possibility of education for a teacher in adult education will contribute to the quality of the system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the award of vouchers, we will be guided by a detailed analysis of the need for labour market skills that will be continuously implemented by the Ministry of Labour. We will also follow the recommendations of the HZZ which are mentioned here several times. In addition, the establishment of a quality assurance system will also enable the quality of the implementation of the programme to be taken into account, as it is important public funds that must contribute to the finality of labour productivity and the higher salaries of workers. Any employee and unemployed person in the Republic of Croatia will be able to finance their education through a voucher, whether it is their personal need, whether they are sent by employers or HZZ. As regards the territorial representation of adult education, in particular the implementation of the programme in rural areas, I stress that both the current law and this new law allow the implementation of the programme outside the centre of the institution. This is already being used by many adult education institutions, so it can take place in primary and secondary schools throughout Croatia and educational programmes can be implemented. I will say that there will not be an end to education policy, if there is one student there, of course if there is a programme we will go to an exclusive detention from first to fourth grade, but the regional schools as such will survive and then there will be a possibility for these institutions to upgrade the need for adult education, but this is, for example, the problem of inaccessibility and communication in some parts of the Republic of Croatia. As for attracting people to education, in addition to the campaigns we are going to carry out, it is important to include civil society associations in promoting the need for lifelong learning. That's a good point. Local communities, social partners because they can only make this necessary quantitative shift for us together. I also note one significant novelty that will be adopted by this law has not been particularly highlighted here, but in the first reading it is, therefore, that the national information system will be set up, in which educational programmes will, therefore, include an educational programme, competences that the student will have to acquire, which will be a starting point and a potential employer of very useful information. There, respected MPs, respected MPs, the final proposal of the Law on adult education goes in the direction, we are deeply convinced, quality upgrades and improvement of the existing system, so that every adult in our country will be given education that will give him a better position on the labour market, and consequently better social status and personal well-being. In this context, we must not ignore the fact that only quality and inclusive systems can attract students to education and thus have a positive impact on the increase in the number of adults participating in education, which is not satisfactory in Croatia so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81917	Here, two replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81918	Thank you very much, well-respected secretary of state, I just wanted to say that it remains recorded, in an informal conversation you explained to me some of the concerns I had about formal recognition of informally acquired skills and knowledge, so that it only strengthens me in what I said was a step in the right direction and that it should be supported and understood as such. And if there are any misunderstandings and some difficulties in implementation, that's what every law has, but that's why we have amendments and additions to the law, so we can always fix it, but practice will show which segments may need, to put it that way, ironing and grinding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81919	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81920	Yeah. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81921	Next replica, honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81922	Thank you very much, therefore, my replica refers to the provision of Article 17 which defines, among other things, the programs on which to then receive vouchers. And now they're part of the program, and clearly, it's also clear that where it's connected to the offices of the state administration, they have to adopt a rule within 12 months. So within twelve months, only then will the power be to confirm the program and the voucher. I'm only interested in one thing – why didn't you decide to prescribe a period within which consent should be given to these programmes? For what reason? I'm saying it for some kind of experienced reason. So, in order to generally start with vouchers, programs must be made. Vouchers are linked to the recovery resistance plan, whether it be the Ministry of Labour or the state administration's office. So, for programs, we know the deadline, or the rules, we know the deadline. Then the programs will come, and then at some point, someone has to give consent. Why they did not decide to set a deadline for the issuing of that consent so as not to go indefinitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81923	As far as deadlines are concerned, I don't know, I'm going to have to check, but I know that the definition of this article about the voucher was a lot of inter-resor bargaining and a lot of contacts with the European Commission, and that we've been taking a very long look at the real formulation that we can relate to in order to meet, of course, the obligation imposed by the European Fund on which this provision is attached, so I assume that there are some reasons, and if there are no, then perhaps in addition, we can, as we were told, introduce more concrete deadlines that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81924	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda would be: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, first reading, P.Z. the number 235 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81939	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear MPs, respected MPs, one of the acts that regulates the early and pre-school education system in the Republic of Croatia is the Pre-school Education and Education Act, which took effect back in 1997. Since then, the law has experienced 3 changes that have been further regulated by the system of working and preschool education. However, the current social circumstances and needs required a new adjustment of certain provisions of this law, and the product of this is before you, the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. There are several basic objectives of this bill, and one of them concerns the problem of capacity in the early and pre-school education and education system, we are more specifically talking about creating the possibility of increasing child coverage in the early and pre-school education system. The ministry believes that one of the modes of achieving that goal is stronger inclusion of JLS. Therefore, it is clearly prescribed that JLS, which do not have an organised early and pre-school education and education, are obliged to organise either in JLS or in co-organisation with neighbouring JLS. Also in order to obtain a more quality review of the need to build new facilities that meet the growing needs of parents and children of early and preschool age, we propose that the children's kindergarten network brought by the founder from now on is brought by the minister responsible for education. Thus, the minister's decision will make a national network of kindergartens that has never existed before, which will contribute to the rational structure of kindergartens and programmes for children of early and preschool age. Furthermore, the proposed law further harmonizes preschool education and education with regulations governing other parts of the educational system, as well as curricular documents. This means that we prescribe that the national curricula for early and preschool education is adopted in accordance with the framework national document, which sets out the elements of the curricula system at the general level for all levels of education and education. In addition, we prescribe that the national curricula is made by a minister of decision, and in accordance with the national curricula, a number of shorter programmes can be implemented that will allow children to have better quality education in accordance with their abilities, capabilities, interests and needs. Furthermore, the criteria for achieving the right of advantage in enrolment in kindergarten are complemented. This means that the advantage of enrolment in kindergartens with the founder of units of local or regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia will be the children of the parents of a disabled Homeland War, children of three or more children, children of both employed parents, children with developmental and chronic illnesses who have the findings and opinion of the competent body from the welfare system or the approval of the selected pediatrician or family doctor that the proportion of the difficulty in developing or chronic illness is indicative of the damage list of functional abilities in accordance with the regulation governing the methodology of skills, children of single parents, children of single parents, children of persons with disabilities enrolled in the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities, children who have obtained the right to social service of accommodation in foster families, children who are required to attend pre-school and children who receive an allowance for children or parents of the parents guaranteed minimumfees. Similarly, in order to allow each child to receive assistance and support in accordance with his development needs, capabilities and abilities, it is prescribed that prior to enrolment in kindergarten, an initial conversation with parents and children will be conducted better said by observing the child’s behaviour and communication with the presence of parents. This process will be carried out by the expert commission of kindergartens, so professional associates, senior nurse and director, and will also bring judgment on the inclusion of children in educational groups with regular or special programmes for children with developmental difficulties, children with health problems and neurological impairments, as well as children who are accompanied by recommendations from experts on enrolment. It is also amended to prescribe that the preschool programme is mandatory for all children in the year before school. In order to reduce the differences between children before joining the primary education and education system for children who are not included in regular pre-school education and education programmes in line with the proposal will also be possible for the longer duration of the pre-school programme. In this regard, in order to provide timely information on the inclusion of children in compulsory programmes, the parents of children who are not included in regular preschool programmes should be added to the proposal a provision on the basis of which the competent authorities are obliged to inform parents of children who are not involved in regular preschool education programmes on the time and place of enrolment of children in the preschool programme. The competent authorities are the authority of the county or the City of Zagreb and the administrative body of JLS responsible for pre-school education and care for pre-school children. Since the pre-school programme is also required to add a provision on the basis of which the child is to be enrolled in a primary school, he receives confirmation of the completed pre-school programme. Furthermore, with the aim of creating sufficient personnel conditions in pre-school education and education, this legislative proposal provides the possibility of hiring primary education teachers to implement pre-school programmes, and this applies not only to school institutions but also to early and pre-school education and education programmes in kindergartens, but with the obligation to acquire additional competences to which the primary education teacher will also acquire the academic name of the first-graders of pre-school education and education. Such a person who develops a working relationship as an unprofessional person to obtain additional competences may perform educational work with children as one of the two breeders in the educational group, along with a breeder who has the appropriate qualifications. If a person does not acquire the prescribed competence within the prescribed period, he or she may not continue to work or be employed in another pre-school institution until he or she has met the conditions for working at the job of the breeder. In order to facilitate employability, breeders and professional associates will be able to establish a working relationship on an indefinite basis and as trainees, but with the obligation to pass an expert examination within the prescribed time limit. In addition to the third breeder who, in accordance with the national pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, can be employed by the changes in question, it is also possible to employ assistants for children with disabilities, as well as professional communication intermediaries in institutions conducted by early and pre-school education and education. From further changes, I would like to mention an amendment to the provisions relating to children's kindergarten directors. More specifically, it is prescribed that every kindergarten has to have a full-time director who will be appointed at the age of 5 and not at the age of 4 and, on a proposal from the board of directors, will appoint and resolve the founder of kindergarten or kindergarten where the founder of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is the executive body of the founder. The draft law also allows for enrolment in kindergartens and by electronic means. This is the result of a project called Process Information and the establishment of a full electronic enrolment service in educational and educational institutions, etc. e-intentions conducted by the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, in which the Ministry of Science and Education and the Croatian Academic Research Network CARNER participate as partners. This project provides parents with the possibility of enrolling children through a system of e-citizens throughout the entire vertical education. So now we have it from kindergarten to college. The main objective of the project is to enable citizens, users of education ministry services to enter quickly and easily into the desired institution without unnecessary administrative procedures. I would also like to point out that the proposed legislative solution introduces significant changes to the early and preschool education and education system, and will allow children of early and preschool age to be made more accessible to early and preschool education and education, as well as quality education and education. According to international studies, such as TIMSS and PIRLS and PISA, it was, of course, shown that students who had attended a preschool institution for 3 or more years had achieved better average results than their peers who attended a preschool facility for a year or shorter period, and therefore expected better success in our children's follow-up education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81940	We've got plenty of replicas. The first is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81941	Thank you very much. Dear State Secretary, among other things the law provides for the possibility, not the possibility but the safe adoption of a network of kindergartens at national level which has not become yet, there are networks of kindergartens at regional level. We consider this a very good move which I certainly believe will bring better planning of kindergartens at national level and reducing regional, regional differences between rural and urban areas in terms of representation and covering children with previous preschool education. And, of course, what I think is necessary to stress is the effort and commitment of the Ministry of Science and Education regarding the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the reconciliation of the construction of an additional 22.5 thousand places with the aim of achieving 90% of children at Croatia's level by 2026, and by 2030, it covers all children with preschool programmes, which will be invested in 1.62 billion kuna. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81942	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81943	Thank you, well-respected MPs, that's exactly the goal of amending this law. It is in this sense very ambitious and in the figures that you have listed, but simply in order to align the needs of course observed in the educational system and to monitor these new moments that have been provided to us by the NGOs, we need to change between ourselves and for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81944	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81945	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State comes from Međimurje, so I'm going to ask you a question about preschool Roma education. You know for a fact that most of the Roma population in Croatia is right in Međimurje. It is here in the introduction that the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion for the period from 2013 to 2020 proposed to cover, cover children for at least 2 years, Roma food in preschool education. However, the data suggests that less than 1 child on 5 Roma households children is enrolled in the early and pre-school education system. Then I came here in preparation for the National Plan for Roma Inclusion 2021 to 2027, where in the opening section, they say that less than a third of Roma children are covered by this preschool education. Do you think that 2 years is enough and you think who has failed I think what could be done even more and what can be done to cover most of the children with this programme, have free transportation and free food which units of local self-government provide, and yet it is such a low percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81946	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for knowing what you're talking about, and of course we're aware of these facts you've stated. For two years to begin, I think it would be great that this, especially for children members of the Roma national community, have an organised entry into primary school from a whole series of other assumptions that we must make there, of course. And we have fantastic examples, you're from Međimurje, I'm from Varazdin County, and it's very well done, it's invested, it's free, it's constantly visible, it's like this when you bring it out, maybe defeating data, but I think, generally, already in stages of half a decade, so for decades, it's visible shifts. I think that here, given that the state is constantly following the programmes from its budget and it's absorbed quite a bit of European that this pace should continue, and the assumption that we want ambitiously that it happens in 2 years is for this The moment I think good and desirable. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81947	Next replica, respected representative Anamarija Blažević
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81948	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I think these changes are a really positive step towards the full arrangement of pre-school education systems in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, certain parts are already being implemented in practice so that the legal arrangement was necessary in order to avoid doubt when dealing with certain situations and to ensure uniform treatment in all kindergartens. Local self-government units tend to have every child’s right to his place in kindergarten, not a commitment, but a possibility. In order to implement this, I think that the role of the state in overcoming imbalances in the system should be greater than co-financing and to regulate different criteria, and that requires changing the state pedagogical standard through, for example. a slight increase in the size of the group, but not to compromise the quality of education makes it easier to finance. Can we expect the ministry to engage within its powers in overcoming these imbalances, for example? through the revision of the national pedagogical standard, project financing or increased co-financing of pre-school programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81949	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81950	Dear MPs can and will and the expert team at the ministry is working on changes to the state pedagogical standard. Of course we're also aware and we've seen the differences that have accumulated since 2008 when it was passed and then how it's coordinated, so we're working on it. And of course it's one of the assumptions at the end and this law that, together with the DPS, it's one of the assumptions that we have on the ground and what our needs are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81951	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81952	Dear secretary, one question about the network of pre-school institutions, you say it will now move on to the minister and ministry that will take from the national level of the network, but it is said that first it must be taken by representative bodies of the county, and then after that decision taken by the representative bodies then the ministry or the competent minister will make a decision, so let me just say that in the Split-Dalmatia County, there is a record 25-year-old waiting for the next 25 years, who will continue to wait until this representative body meets and then the minister says amen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81953	No, here's the ambition not to wait another 25 years but to give a frame for the next two years. Of course, we have to ask representative bodies depending on the regional situation, but this is a good opportunity precisely in the context and these NPO funds are new constructions, or the way we sent them to the units of local, regional (regional) self-government about their needs present, given that the part of that measure has been consumed.4.1. some have received kindergartens some have failed. However, now the NPO is opening up a new possibility and it is an opportunity to even bring the famous children's kindergarten network to the front.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81954	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81955	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. And in the ministry you are aware that, apart from the missing spatial and accommodation kindergartens, we have been having a problem for many years and with the educational significance of human resources and in this direction goes the provisions of this law which allow the employment of primary education teachers at the workplace of kindergarten educators, subject to the qualification of early and preschool graduates within two years. It is also called on the Faculty of Teachers throughout Croatia to introduce this extraordinary study and the possibility of achieving the above-mentioned requalification, but also the Ministry of Education to enable the achievement of higher enrolment quotas because this is not a long-term solution for teachers working in pre-school education, they have completed their Master's degree in primary education, and when they find a job in this profession, they may already have a number of teachers working in their primary calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81956	It is precisely respected that these related situations in education and education have been vertical throughout, and that we are aware that the lack of a breeder who is already visible will be even more potent and deepened in the coming period and that the most natural procedure that can be institutionalally done is the occupations that go towards primary education and primary school, but can also be rerouted according to pre-school education and education. We're on track for solutions, the universities are aware of this, we're going to sucreate as we have so far, because by law we can co-create it, and the universities alone bring registration quotas, but that's where we're going to talk about it. But the fact is that if we realize what we're predicting then we're going to need a breeder in the system and this is just one way to Let's open that channel of need. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81957	The next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81958	Dear Representative of the Government. For years, I've been in the adjective of local politics, and we've constantly met with the problem of enrolling children in kindergartens, state pedagogical standards, insufficient number of places, a bad network or an unadjusted network, and all the time, from the government or all the government talks, we'll take care of children, children are our gold, silver, etc. I have a very simple question, if as a state we want all children to get an opportunity, even conditions why doesn't the state take over to ensure in its entire space equal terms and practically without criteria? You've come here to improve the criteria, someone won't enter the kindergarten, so that shouldn't be our goal. We need a goal for all children to be in a system of kindergartens, and I honestly think that's the only way for it to be taken over by the state in some way. or at least co-finance and control [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much, excuse me. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81959	Thank you very much. If we were so capacitated, I'd do the same thing you said right away. The fact is that we are very layered, that large inter-local, inter-regional differences in different parts of the Republic of Croatia that at this moment it is impossible to bring this forward and impossible to finance, but improvements in the early and pre-school education system must happen, they are necessary. We are going towards these amendments to the law, and I hope that it will be understood and experienced in that way and that it will be supported. And of course we're open to all the enquiries and all the debates that could still be a qualitative upgrade for us and we're sure to take that into account. At this point, this is too much capacity even for the state, but at some point in time we must be prepared and I would also support it in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81960	Next replica, respected representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor. Here in the bag I found a paper one that I got from one of the kindergarten students the other day so I can't take the opportunity to promote DV Djakovo. I volunteered for the replica not with a question but rather with a suggestion and a suggestion to consider intervention in art between the two readings. 34th current Preschool and Education Act. In fact, this article describes the board of children's kindergartens there and says that at least half of the members of the board... the founder of the public workers' order. In practice and in the field, there is a misunderstanding about the definition of public workers, so I suggest you consider until the second reading so that we can solve this problem and use this change of law or in a way to delete this provision from the public workers' order or that perhaps access to solving problems like in schools when the members of the school board are defined... the founder is then said to be a minimum VSS or somehow in order to solve all the misunderstandings on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81962	Thank you very much for the suggestion. I don't know if it's a nomotechnical question, or a termological question to see if it's possible and if that part is confusing or illogical, and if it can be changed, we'll see, but we'll let the services check it out. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81963	The next replica is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81964	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Here's life itself imposes a commitment that all preschool children must be placed in kindergartens. Example of good practice here from Zadar where I am from where you have kindergartens of other founders and where children are located there, so you don't have to work the building, you don't have to make infrastructure have your employees and that solves a particular problem. Another example that is difficult, which is an establishment, so you have an institution that has an optimally 600 children and has 17 to 20 kindergarten groups and, if it is 21, a new institution should be established. I don't think there's any logic there and that should change because it means that those who are below 600 students that they're not optimal kindergartens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81965	Yes, well here we are talking about children of early and preschool age, we are talking about standards, and what is possible and enables that, in terms of logic and rationalization, of course more units of local self-government to join together and create one of their own institutions that can then comply with these needs, and of course we have already mentioned these in the framework of the DPS we will change because they are not logical, they are not life and are not applicable at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81966	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81967	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State. So about this idea that was just presented that in some future state should take over preschool education. I think that there should be something more precise and clearer to remind that the right and obligations of parents are primarily child rearing, and of course the state there should be as a partner, as a partner of parents, as a partner of families, associations of families, religious communities and other social organisations that organise also preschool education or school education, the state at all levels, and at this level that is now prescribed for creation, for example. national networks. So he would point out that principle of subsidiarity and this principle of partnership of the state, but that the primary obligation and the right of parents to raise children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81968	Yes, Your Honor, you are absolutely right, of course here we have discussed the need for the present to experience as much child coverage as possible and to bring them to institutions where they naturally belong and where they are professionally guided to enrich the educational education system, and these are, of course, some of the goals that we need to achieve. And this law I think is one of those steps of those steps towards such a society and towards such goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81969	The next replica of Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81970	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I support this law and its intensity, but what I see is that a lot of obligations are going to be transferred to local self-government units and I already have some feedback from them, and mostly smaller municipalities that are going to be in a pretty big problem with the application of this law. Namely, what's this about? It is the impression that those units of local self-government that adhere to the state pedagogical standard simply cost allocated to early pre-school education and education are too great for their survival. So I'm just going to mention now a municipality whose expenditures have increased since 2018-2021 from 15.32% to 19.93% of the original revenues of the municipal budget, and with these changes, they're going to increase by 25% compared to this last one. How will the state help to implement this law and yes The other units don't fail? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81971	Yes, the question of course is in the place of distinguished MPs, it was not an intensity to go to additional burdening units of local self-government, we are aware that they are burdened enough, we know which programmes are financed from the state budget and how much it is somewhere an extremely expensive mechanism of course and difficult to achieve. Somewhere it's an opportunity for extra qualitative steps, so on the other hand we have fantastic examples where kindergartens are free for example. Of course it's not our institutional intention to burden ourselves further. However, we want to put things in a context where there are no so-called early and pre-school education and education units with that intensity that they must be organised either on their own, or in the co-organization of the nearest other unit of locals in mutual agreement it is now put here so put. But in the technique itself, we'll see more and we'll talk. I know it's the only part of the commitment, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81972	Time. We now have the final replica, the video replica. Dear representative Marina Opačak Bilić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81973	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing. I welcome the changes anyway. However, I am interested in acting, on the one hand, in large cities we have situations that the capacities cannot meet the needs especially now in the City of Zagreb, given the suspension of the parent-teacher measure where demand will be significantly higher than capacity. So I ask you, what measures will allow all children who want to be enrolled in kindergartens and who will really be available to everyone? And on the other hand, when we talk about rural areas, then we meet with the fact that the financial obligations of the accessibility organisation will let's say on the burden of municipalities that I'm not sure are ready for. All right, it's possible to bring together more units of local self-government in the organisation of the program itself. But I ask you, do we have any special funds for this kind of funding and increased co-financing that will facilitate and strengthen capacity building in rural areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81974	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. Yes, we do, and that's now the opportunity of the generation we're talking about. This is, of course, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 1.6 billion kuna available to us for the infrastructure of the construction of new kindergartens, so new capacities under this Act, according to the new DPS. So that's something that will reproduce a coverage of 22 and a half thousand children who are currently not in the system, which should be in the system by 26. Because of course you know that the assumption of child inclusion in early and preschool education is accommodation, so the accommodation capacity that this money will allow. As far as rural areas are concerned, so where depopulation opportunities are significant, a group for early and preschool education can also be formed by adaptations to rural schools. And it also allows this Law, as well as changes to combine several units of local self-government and to have one administration and thus economicize the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81975	Thank you, Secretary of State. You're done with this temporarily. Does a committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first club of representatives is registered by Croatian sovereigns. Dear representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next registered Club of Representatives of the SDSS respected representative Anja Simprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81976	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Early and pre-school education in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on pre-school education and education and related sublaws and includes education, education and care for pre-school children, and is implemented through programmes of education, education, health care, nutrition and social care for children from 6 months to the start of primary school. One of the 20 key principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights states that children are entitled to affordable early pre-school education and good quality education. While earlier the primary objective of early and preschool education was to prepare for school, these programmes are today focused on developing the child’s abilities and all parts of his personality and enable the child to develop the personal development and development of the social skills needed to establish quality relations with others. For most children, primary education starts in Europe at about 6 years of age. Currently, 31 million children under the age of 6 live in the European Union, and they are potential users of early and preschool education. But not everyone has access to that service. On average, 34% or about 5 million children under 3 years of age are included in early and preschool education. In only 7 Member States of the European Union and Norway, there is a guaranteed place in a publicly funded institution of early and preschool education for each child from the early age of 6 to 18 months, respectively. Availability is much better for older children. In almost half of European countries, the place in early and preschool education and education has been guaranteed since the 3rd year, and in more and more countries, attending early and preschool education programmes is mandatory in the last year, which has been the case since 2014. According to the National Development Strategy, children's coverage from the 4th year to the start of compulsory preschool education should be increased to 97%. In this context, this legislative change introduces, among other things, the obligation to organise pre-school education and education in all units of local self-government. For those who do not have kindergartens in their field of law, the obligation to co-finance children's kindergartens from their territory in the nearest neighbouring town or municipality shall be prescribed. Therefore, in order to achieve this objective in some areas, it is practically necessary to build new ones and expand the capacities of existing institutions for the reception of this number of children. The construction and expansion of buildings also requires effective co-operation of units of local self-governance with constituencies, i.e. primarily with the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as with the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union Funds in order to ensure adequate instruments within the multiannual financial framework. It is also necessary to ignore the need to include the Ministry of Finance in order for the framework for the borrowing of local units to be sufficiently flexible as well as the Ministry of Justice and Administration to ensure effective treatment in order to address the property relations for the construction and expansion of the mentioned facilities. However, what is even more important with regard to the assessment of the fiscal impact of the local self-government unit is the assessment of the Association of Cities that the costs of full enrollment of children in those institutions would amount to around one billion kuna per year in operational costs, i.e. 560 million kuna in salary allowances and 400 to 450 million kuna in the cost of management, maintenance, nutrition and other related costs. These costs, unlike the aforementioned constructions, represent a permanent burden on local self-government units and cross the fiscal opportunities of most units, especially in light of the change in tax policy that goes to some extent and to the damage to the budget of those I have talked about here and several times. However, it should be mentioned that no deadline has been set for the units of local self-government to implement these measures. So, there are a lot of positive examples when we talk about municipalities and cities that expand capacities, they're more developed, they're more financially stable, but what about municipalities in rural areas? It is certainly much more difficult for them, but also for individuals, despite everything and such, to find ways and means. There are fewer children in these environments, so it may be one of the easy circumstances, and for example, it may be an example. The municipality of Ervenik diocese who still do not have kindergartens or preschool education programmes, but in cooperation with the town of Knin, they have ensured that every child attends kindergarten and finance the price of kindergartens in 100% amount. Although what I'm about to mention next is not the subject of these amendments and additions to the law, but I do note how representatives of kindergartens and other institutions who conduct preschool education programmes of members of national minorities have highlighted certain problems. In particular, the Regulation on the way the resources of the state budget and the co-financing criteria of pre-school education programmes have been available has not changed for 24 years, so the amount of co-financing allocated to kindergartens for the implementation of pre-school education programmes of members of national minorities is 25, 50 and 75 kuna, as indicated there has been an increase in the prices of didactic and other equipment necessary for the implementation of the pre-school programme of pre-school children. In the NPOO one of the objectives is to establish a quality and efficient system of local and regional self-government where through functional integration units work to establish an effective, quality, transparent way of providing services to citizens and to have no matter where all equal opportunities live to meet their needs and interests. It is precisely these amendments to the law that I see as one of the ways that functional integration will look, merger means municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. Research shows that ensuring high quality early and preschool education can help reduce future public expenditure on social care, health care, and then the judiciary and setting firm foundations for successful lifelong learning, high quality early preschool education and education brings personal benefits to children, especially those in an unfavourable position. Early preschool education is therefore the cornerstone of building better and fairer education systems. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act in this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81977	Next is the debate of the National Minority Representatives Club, the esteemed Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81978	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Preschool Education and Education precisely because of the fact that inequalities and unequal opportunities are most affected in different parts of Croatia. While in some parts, as many as 85% of children attend preschools and kindergartens, the percentage is said to be barely 30%, and often so in the Roma community. We all know the problem of lack of knowledge of language, the absence of early integration of Roma children in the education system, which is free to say the biggest problem we will all face if we do not take decisive and at the highest level coordinated steps through the creation of material conditions for making Roma children more integrated into preschools and kindergartens and to keep them in the system as long as possible to the university level. We also have Eurostat data saying that Croatia is generally at the European bottom in terms of preschool education of children from four to the age of schooling, while in 2017 it is. The EU average was 95% lower in Croatia. In the earliest stages of education, preparation for mastering home materials in primary schools and then in all later stages of education. We also have to say that for ten years now, I've been pushing for high school to be mandatory to everyone, but since we can't do that, then we must certainly take that step in preschool. Children who come from Roma settlements who often do not have the help of parents who themselves do not have education. They have to attend preschools and more than one year which I often in these 10 years in some way signal all the time. If we do not ensure this, then we will surely face great differences in pre-recognition creating precisely segregated classes or having children attend special programs. In order not to turn out to be exclusively guilty institutions, I must also say that some of the children in the Roma community are easily giving up schooling, and in some areas it has become a rule that high school ends in the mere schools. It is also a practice that I object to and I will work safely to prevent it whenever and wherever possible. I would like to point out this way that cooperation with the restoring ministries on the formation of the National Minority Administration, led by Mr. Capo, has improved significantly and that in the last few years we have good data when we talk about compulsory education, but also... when we talk about the number of students. [[You don't understand.]] I am also grateful for the opportunities offered by and private higher education institutions that recognize the very importance of Roma education on the basis of the government's programme. For example, Eduard Bernez High School, which through its own scholarship programme, has provided a full free study for two members of the Roma national minority annually, and I must thank them for that. This process of education from the very beginning, to the situation that all Roma children are enrolled in primary school, and most of them and high school have to be better highlighted. We need to do everything to prevent the differences in knowledge and bad material conditions and a banal and easy solution from solving the issues of transportation of our children from schooling or the school trip to spend in almost exclusive Roma classes where they do not gain strong enough competences. It is also important to note that Roma parents themselves point out that children go to preschool because the kindergarten is free or co-financed or because it has been organised. This is important because it shows how financial support measures have an impact. Roma parents consider preschool extremely useful for preparing Roma children for primary school. Good scholarships and even awards in high school finals are just some of the methods that young people try to keep right in the school system. The education of the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia Kalisar, the Organisation of Congress of Young Roma and the construction of a Roma educational cultural centre in Zagreb are also along with other projects a sign that the Roma community has taken this problem seriously and is trying to change the current situation. In this context, it is extremely important for me to have the precise and clear data available today in the field of education and employment of members of the Roma national minority in order to make it more clear, more precise and rigorous for us to seek and carry out the activities that are necessary to mitigate and eliminate all detected negativity. In other words, without education, there is no progress of the Roma community, and without being able to gain knowledge of labour market benefits, there is no opportunity to achieve equality. The main reason for limited success in education and employment is the lack of a systematic approach to resolving this issue, and the data we have thanks to research by the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities provide a framework for institutions to develop a more comprehensive plan to increase the participation of children in preschools in cooperation, which is crucial with local self-government units where these data are problematic. The data confirms the following problems. 12% of the Roma population in the Republic of Croatia is illiterate. Those who are not educated in time do so later as adults in only 6.3% of cases. Roma women do it even more rarely in just 3.9% of cases. The medium professional equipment has only 15% of the Roma, and the higher level of education is only 0.5%, not enough for the progress of the Roma community. ... I must continue to systematically approach and the problem of employment and pre-qualification but make a step in terms of development projects in the midst of the populated members of the Roma national minority, which we are also working very hard on. [[You don't understand.]] In other words, education cannot solve only the Ministry of Science and Education, but we must have the coordination of institutions, stronger cooperation of institutions at national level, but better integration of local self-government units. Such a mechanism exists and we have successfully but not used enough through the Committee for the Implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, or the National Plan for Roma, which so far has not had enough political or means to work, but we are slowly changing it for the better. The main step is the Operational Programme for National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly determined the responsibility of individual resolutions for agreed activities as well as deadlines. And this way I would like to thank the Government for constantly increasing the resources available to the Commission and for the adoption of the amendments. That is why I have conditioned my support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by strengthening the capacity of that commission, which I have succeeded in. Investment in the future will pay us the highest interest, and no matter what we achieve in other fields. Without the educational young Roma, the Roma community will certainly have no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81979	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club. Honorable representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81980	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this Law on Preschool Education, or its amendments, one of the objectives as Mr. Secretary said was to increase the coverage of children involved in early and preschool education, so here I will list several problems with the whole law. Some are minor problems, one slightly larger to which all professional associations have pointed. The first problem we face is that we pass the law in 2021, calling for the benchmarks that were required by 2020. So here and the law itself says, it's about the decision of the Council of Ministers in 2002 in Barcelona, which asked to ensure full-time care for 33% of children from birth to 3rd year of life and 90% of children from 3rd to 6th year of life. So that was the goal of achieving it by 2020. The next problem, I'm going to go to this item by item and elaborate what's the problem with each of these items. The first problem I have raised is also here in the replica of the secretary is therefore the network of pre-school education institutions, a network that has been here specifically in the Split-Dalmatia County has not been brought in for 25 years, it says here that the network will be brought by the minister responsible for education but on the basis of a network brought by the representative body. It's the same representative body that hasn't brought that network in 25 years. So I don't see any deadline here. Here's another bait that's being set up in front of the representative body is that here we have to use the funding from the National Resilience and Recovery Plan, so here's the money, there's going to be money in Europe, so let's go get that network as soon as possible. But here, in law, we don't see any concrete deadlines. So, according to this, we can still wait for this representative body so that the county's assembly can bring that network for the next 25 years. The next problem, in fact, is the biggest problem pointed out by a number of professional associations and in public consultation, which is this problem as teachers as educators. So, what happens now? We are aware that there are not enough breeders in kindergartens and then some units reach for some temporary solutions and actually use teachers as if I were to say replacement breeders. How'd it go so far? So far, they were able to work for a maximum of 6 months, and then the contest was to be repeated. However, here is now actually the possibility that teachers can still do 60 ECT points, so one year 2 semesters, and after that, they will gain two qualifications. It's gonna be teachers, but it's gonna be raisers, which is a little weird. The other thing is that teachers don't have to pass that internship. I've already pointed that out on the board on this subject. So they don't have to pass the traineeship, and the breeders do. So these teachers who are now studying like this should they, or by the way they are now not supposed to have a traineeship. So here's this substitute so teachers can be breeders of what's going to happen? Students are now announcing that they simply won't study so they won't go to raisers. Why would they go to foster care when they can be teachers and do another year, so they're teachers and raisers. So we can cancel that tutoring study freely after this. And one question was, so you in Croatia today at the Employment Service have about 350 to 900 unemployed breeders at all times. I was saying I asked a question on the board. The problem is this internship that isn't co-financed. Local self-government units don't have the means to co-finance that internship and then you've got the fosterers waiting to get the opportunity to do the internship. So the question was, can the state actually co-finance that? What is trends in Europe, so in Europe, there is nowhere in Europe that teachers can become teachers, what is even a trend in Europe is even going in the opposite direction, even in 1st grade schools, it is recommended to hire and raise teachers because it is a game in 1st grade that is a good way of learning, and they are even going towards bringing up teachers in the opposite direction, so we will now be teachers of breeders, and they are looking for breeders to get involved in that education process in the 1st class. So that's the biggest, really biggest problem that somehow needs to be solved. I already mentioned the network. They mentioned here and colleagues earlier that actually funding preschool education really is too much of a burden for local self-government units now as our education system is, so the other levels of education are funded by the state here are all completely left to local self-government units, and they also because of those changes in tax reforms, they are becoming more difficult and more difficult and they are fulfilling their goals and tasks. Even here in the law says an increase in coverage and is said to the units of local self-government you are obliged to organise it. In the end it is said and as much as you have the capacity, you are obliged to organize how much capacity you have and then actually the goal is that as many children are involved in these facilities is actually kind of being transferred to... So how much money they have, if they don't have God, they're happy to say it. [[You don't understand.]] One observation concerning this availability and coverage. This sentence says: “A change in the criteria for enrolment of children in kindergartens will allow access to children in some of the early and preschool education programmes.” So if the number of places you have is so unclear, maybe I need to explain a little about how the change of criteria will now increase coverage? I don't know. You have 100 seats for kindergarten kids. The possibility of funding 100 places. It'll affect that they're other kids now, right? But there'll be 100 of them. There won't be 200 of them you understand what I'm asking you. So, this that changing criteria is going to allow your children to access it a little bit we actually need to clarify, it seems to me that it's not well defined. So here we need to clarify what is available, these are rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and what that includes. I also didn’t say at first that this Law should actually be called a law on early and preschool education. We skipped that early. We're all talking about it, and it's not really the law's name. Another observation if I have time, so in this Article 6 of this Law it is said that Article 20 of the Law is amended. He talks about the advantages of enrolment in kindergartens and now lists the children of the parents of the disabled Homeland War, family with three and more children, etc. and says children with developmental difficulties and chronic diseases who have an opinion and opinion of the competent authority in the welfare system or confirmation of the selected pediatrician, family doctor, etc. However, kindergartens are neither health care nor rehabilitation facilities. So if they have the capacity, so you have the advantage of children who have developmental difficulties, etc. And you say they have an advantage. Okay, but does this facility have the capacity to raise such children that's also a little questionable? With that note saying that in fact they are not even defined in Croatia, here I am going to finish, they are neither defined as vulnerable groups nor defined as having any kind of strategy for relations with vulnerable groups of children. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81981	There's a debate coming up. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected Vice-President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague for the second time today. Since it is the first reading of this Act, the SDP Club is inclined to support certain intensities but we will take this opportunity and point to those segments of the proposal that we believe should be revised and possibly changed until the second reading. The inclusion of children in preschool education and education is certainly one of the most problematic I will say so when we talk about equal access to education because this system is the only way to take into account primary, secondary education which is in fact completely decentralised and fully dependent on strength, concept, sensitivity, sensitivity to the educational needs of individual units of local or regional self-government. In this case, just a unit of local self-government and that's why we come to this inequality. We've seen it here. So we have access to kindergartens ranging from 30% to 75% in certain parts of Croatia in some of the best and brightest examples. The reasons for this are numerous, starting with the availability of meaning territorial. Unfortunately, it determines the fate of the child where it lives. Equally the price of kindergarten. We have differences and in quality itself even though we have a state pedagogical standard not applied equally, it is not respected equally so that there are many, many problems. And as long as that's the case, we have to deal with the consequences of the same thing. Now, here's the deal. In this Law you are trying to reach some of these problems and here we support the proposal that the minister bring the national network of preschool institutions or kindergartens. We also support stronger involvement of local self-government units. However, I believe that there is also a stronger support of the state to units of local self-government in order to meet or achieve the objectives outlined, as you said in the national development strategy where we have set ourselves a very high goal when we talk about involving children in early pre-school education. What I'm going to do about it a little bit later, is equally well that for the children of Roma national minorities, the approach will be to prescribe mandatory school attendance two years before starting primary school. I think that, in 2013 and 14, when we introduced a mandatory preschool year before enrolment in elementary school, it also contributed to this number that today we have 14 thousand and 516 children in kindergarten compared to the pedagogical year 2011. – in 2012 and I think that's good, because the members of the Roma national minority are actually in the most part those who are not only involved in the preschool system, but we also have a problem with including that compulsory part of education, which is primary education. Not to mention the problems we face at the high school level, and we will all agree that early preschool education and education is essential for all educational cognitive and social outcomes of the child and that there is a clear difference both in achievements and in development and in the progress of children who have attended some of the pre-school education and education programmes and children who are not. What's also right here is to coordinate with other systems that the director will be elected for five years and will be employed in full-time, as well as to support electronic enrolment in kindergartens because our experience has shown that the moment we introduced electronic enrolments into high school that this proved to be a strong anti-corruption mechanism that has quite elaborated things on the enrolment that is not being hunted in a blurry and that some children would not be put in an unfavourable position compared to other children. However, I would now switch to what I think should be paid extreme attention between the first and second readings, and I think we should welcome some changes, think about it. So it would be good to equalize termology in the law itself and respect the term curricula everywhere, not the plan and the program, not the program, not the content, but the curricula, we have the national curricula of early and preschool education. It would also be good to get into art. 22. The existing documentation, i.e. to make a commitment to adopt a new regulation on documentation that will be consistent equally with this national curricula because at this point, it seems to me that this is not exactly in line. In the same way in the law, I believe that in addition to a parent's appointment, the term parent-teacher should be used because not all parents are guardians. I may have missed something wrong, but I'm asking you to check it out, and I think that would be okay. It is also necessary to unambiguously define the meanings of the stay of the programme and the curicula, if we no longer mention the plan and the work programme then we need to make clear the difference between the stay compared to the program and the curricula. Now, the obligation to co-finance the stay of children in the second unit of local self-government, I'm not sure it's wise to write in the nearest unit of local self-government, that would be optimal as it stands in the law, but it won't be possible, it won't be possible. Advantage in enrolment, now that in art. 6.1 extends the category of children who have the advantage of enrolment, however, if we strive for each child to have the right to institutional education and education, there is a question of what the priority criteria actually serve. So we're putting ourselves in a situation where we can, we need to weigh the advantage of children with developmental disabilities against the advantage of a child who is in poverty, at the risk of poverty, and we need to ask ourselves whether early preschool education is actually the social and educational well-being of a child, or whether it's the economic well-being of a child or society, if we strive for every child to have and have the right to early preschool education and education because it's significant above all for him. Perhaps we could avoid it in a way that we would respect the age of a child as a universal criterion, so let's say that the founder's obligation, say, involves 100% of six-year-olds, 90% of five-year-olds, etc. or go another way and say that we determine the type of stay in a way that four hours in kindergartens are entitled to a shorter stay for up to four hours, and the longer they only have children employed by parents, which is then regulated and priced, but the availability of a certain type or scope of standard is then available to everyone. When we talk about enrolling children with difficulties, it is okay, however, when conditions exist. So if you have a group that is just forming, then you can plan both assistants and reduce the number of children in that educational group, but what about when it happens that you have to enroll such a child in a group that has already been formed? You cannot throw out of that group to ensure the standard where it must be if one child with difficulties has to be fewer children in the group itself. It is also commendable that the law introduces the obligation of initial conversation with children and parents because it is the right of the child to express and participate in personal education and education, but the question is why it is foreseen only for children with undeveloped speech and how we will know the child’s speech status if we have not had some conversation with him. The observation is conducted by three people, it would be good if this article could be reconsidered a little, you say there should be one expert associate, a nurse and a director. Perhaps it would be better to write at least one professional associate and at least one educator plus a third person who can be someone else’s profile. When we talk about hiring a teacher as an exception in the field, it may be necessary, but it can't be a rule and it can't be a diploma assignment is actually questionable, we warned you about it on the committee itself. I don't have a lot of time I'm sorry, I have a lot more to tell you, but in the end I just want to warn you of another very, very important thing. We can't ask local self-government units to follow the state pedagogical standard, and they need to respect it, to hire through this will have to be full-time directors, assistants because of children with disabilities, third educators and leave it to the strengths of their budgets that are simply not able at the moment. This country must help, and your 2013 amendments were also on the trail. when we came to this House with a bill and a proposal for compulsory preschool, when you tabled amendments and these additional costs need to be taken over by the State. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81983	Next is the debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81984	... HS, state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. How that house is built on the ground is actually raised from birth. And in order to do so in the Republic of Croatia, the pre-school system of education was governed by the Pre-school and Education Act, the state pedagogical standard, the programme orientations of pre-school education and education, the national curricula for early pre-school education and education and the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. Since the entry into force of 1997, the law has experienced 3 amendments in 2007, 2013 and 2019, which have been further regulated by the early and pre-school education system to a certain extent. State of pre-school education in the Republic of Croatia in the pedagogical year 2019/20. and preschool education was conducted in 831 kindergartens and 1699 facilities, facilities attended by 139,628 children according to the National Statistics Institute of 2021. In the period from the pedagogical year 2010/11. until 2019/20. the number of institutions implementing the programme of early and pre-school education and the number of children involved in the programme has increased. So we had 1494 buildings in 2011/12, and we reached 1699 facilities in 2020. The number of children included is 125,165 children in the 2011/12 pedagogical year. to get to 139,682 children in preschool today. Despite the increase in facilities and the scope of children in early and pre-school education programmes, it is still not satisfactory and one of the main objectives of this law is to create opportunities to increase child coverage in the early and pre-school education system. The data also show that training children with early and pre-school education programmes is the highest in the most developed counties, and thus there are regional differences in the participation of children in pre-school programmes. As we advocate a balanced development of our entire country of Croatia and preschool education, it is necessary by 2026 to increase the coverage to 90% of children in preschool programmes. By increasing the coverage of children, anyone who needs to provide additional capacity so that all children in the Republic of Croatia from 3 to 6 years to 2030 can attend kindergarten programs. A key investment in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme in part of education is the construction of an additional 25,500 seats in preschool institutions, which has provided millions and 620 thousand kuna, billions and 620 million kuna. The basis of the issues to be regulated in this law is to create the possibility of increased child coverage in the early and pre-school education system in a way that further prescribes the obligations to organise pre-school education and education to local self-government units with organisations with neighbouring units of local self-government. This is a proposal, it's good, but we'll need to see how it actually comes to life in practice. In order to meet more effectively the requirements of the national organisation of kindergartens, the law allows the competent minister to bring a national network of kindergartens that has not existed so far. The networks have so far been brought by founders but in such a way that they do not allow the need to build new objects in accordance with the needs of children and parents. Preschool education and education are further coordinated with other rules of education and curricula. Furthermore, the criteria for achieving the advantage of enrolment in children's kindergartens are complemented by local and regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia. So, the advantage of enrolment is children of parents with disabilities, children with families with three and more children, children with both unemployed parents, children with developmental disabilities, children with single parents, children with disabilities then children with foster families, children who must attend preschool, children who receive an allowance for children, parents who receive guaranteed minimum, minimum benefits. When enroling in kindergarten, the professional commission of kindergarten conducts a conversation with parents and a child or an observation of the child’s behaviour and communication with the presence of parents. In addition, provisions are added with the basis of which the expert commission delivers a judgment on the inclusion of children in educational groups with regular and specific programmes for children with difficulties with the findings and opinion of competent authorities. In order to address human resources problems in pre-school education and education, the law provides the possibility of hiring teachers of primary education with the obligation to acquire additional competences. If, within a certain period, primary education teachers do not acquire additional competences, they will lose their right of employment or will not be able to be employed at any other preschool facility. In order to facilitate employability, experts will be able to work indefinitely as well as trainees with mandatory laying, with the obligation to pass an expert examination. It also enables employment, employment of a third breeder or assistant for children with developmental difficulties. Due to the easier process of enrolment in kindergarten, which is the same newspaper, the possibility of electronic enrollment of children throughout the educational vertical from kindergarten to university is ensured. We are actually witnessing that he brought us the electronic enrollment of high school students, so we got rid of all the difficulties, the system ranks students, so the public gained confidence in this form of enrolment, and I believe that it will be the same with children for kindergarten and there we can thank the Ministry of Science and Education, and the Croatian academic research network CARNet. The way in which the joint electronic register of pre-school institutions is managed by the Ministry of Education shall also be governed, in accordance with the provisions governing the protection of personal, personal data. What will this law bring, or will come from it? A higher availability of early pre-school and education programmes is possible, a network of kindergartens is adopted at national level, a better planning of development of a network of kindergartens with the aim of reducing differences, an additional emphasis will be made on JLS obligations, providing the necessary professional staff will be made possible by a primary education teacher, on a condition that we have said that they must obtain the necessary qualification, if they do not gain a job, they will lose their job. The regulation of provisions on curriculative documents will bring the early and pre-school education and education system into line with other parts of the educational system. The law stipulates that children's kindergartens can also be performed with regular programmes, and that we are witnessing that certain programmes exist, foreign language learning programmes, artistic, cultural, religious and sports content programmes and the law propose provisions to enable shorter programmes to be implemented in kindergartens, libraries, social, cultural and sports institutions. Persons appointed as children's kindergarten director who before their appointment had a contract for an indefinite period of time to be kept after two mandates and if they are not re-named will be returned to or awaited by the work they were doing before. So the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81985	Next is the debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, which will be shared by the respected representative Glavasevic and Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Members and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. We from the Green-Left Block Club welcome the intensities of the amendments and additions to this law. We think that they are very good, and above all, we think about strengthening the obligations of the founders and the state to expand the number of children covered by early and preschool education and emphasis on the children of vulnerable groups. We also think it is a good idea for the minister to make a decision on the kindergarten network, and for such a decision to be stopped at national level and to coordinate the curricula. This is the level of early education and education, and it is recognised in a number of EU documents, documents from the Council of Europe and various UN agencies, and above all UNICEF is thought and recognised as the key point of view for equating early starting positions for later education and, of course, success in society and generally better living opportunities. Also a kindergarten that detects and helps to correct the difficulties that can occur in early childhood development, and then to address it in a timely manner, we find it irreplaceable. So, we consider the changes logical and welcome, but we have questions about implementation, or we think that it is vaguely defined and especially in these elements. In the article, therefore. Article 11 is amended as follows: 24th basic law. Article 4 states that if a person who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 3 of this article is not invited to tender, a person who has completed a teaching study may perform the work of an educator, provided that he or she has completed a teaching study within 2 g. from the date of establishment of the working relationship, he shall acquire additional qualifications with 60 ECTS points from the early and pre-school education and education programme and qualifications of early and pre-school graduates and education at one of the higher schools in the Republic of Croatia where the study programme for early and pre-school education and education is implemented. This is unclear, and you need an explanation. In fact, if the qualifications of early and pre-school graduates are sought, then this means in itself not 60 but 180 ECTS from the early and pre-school education and education study programme. And if you're referring to some new study or a 2nd-g qualification program. is too short for the introduction and licensing of such a study or programme. Further, Art. Article 12 is added. 24a. The basic law, in Article 3 of that new article, sets out the conditions to be met by the assistant for children with developmental difficulties, and by the expert communications intermediary, with the rest being said that one of the conditions has completed training and acquired partial qualifications. Article 5 states that the content of this training will be prescribed by the minister responsible for education under the relevant Regulation. It is necessary to define what training is and what is a partial qualification given the definition of a partial qualification set out in the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. A partial qualification is a qualification which does not meet the conditions for accessing the labour market and/or continuing education on its own, but solely with an appropriate overall qualification, or with one or more other relevant partial qualifications, in accordance with the full qualification standard. In this respect, the future regulation to be laid down by the minister should be more precisely announced in at least its basic provisions. Finally, in the introductory part of the law of the proposed legal text, it is said in the reasons that the law will not require additional funding, and the means to implement all the obligations arising from this law of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government are provided within the scope of the available fiscal capacities of a single unit because this law does not prescribe a time limit for their implementation. A law without a clear implementation deadline can easily remain a dead letter on paper. In our opinion, it is mandatory to set a deadline for implementation because, in opposite units, local self-governments will vary in the quality and urgency of the implementation of this law, which is exactly what they want to avoid because the goal is exactly the same national standard in the accessibility and quality of pre-school education. So let's let the deadline be realistic and feasible, but the law without a deadline doesn't make much sense. And at the very end, two more brief remarks. It is prescribed that the advantage of enrolment for children of parents with disabilities in the register. If it is necessary to include all children with disabilities, then the law should give priority through the disability solution because not everyone is in the register. And secondly, we would like to add that we believe that the state should help local self-government units finance kindergartens, so not build up, but finance work. The Rural Development Programme has funded construction in many units of local self-government, but it is also necessary to subsidise their functioning because the budgets of many local self-government units simply cannot bear it. Now I'm going to leave the pay phone to my colleague Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81987	Thank you. Well, I would like to take this opportunity to actually point out one provision of this law that does not change these amendments and additions, but we will put the amendment on the grounds that it does not comply with the Constitution, which is a provision that defines how members of the Board of Directors of Preschools or kindergartens are elected, specifically and which says that the administrative councils have five to seven members, half of them come from the ranks of founders, or are proposed by the founder of what are the most common units of local self-government, but it must come from public workers. So it's not a particular profession, it's someone who's a public worker, so for example, he can be a cultural worker, a worker in a public enterprise, etc., and he can't, for example, be a professional person, for example, A child psychologist working in an NGO, he can't be a member of the board of directors under this law. For example, he can't be an expert on early and preschool education and education at UNICEF, he can't be a member of the board of directors for this because he doesn't actually belong to that definition of public workers. So, what's still problematic is not just these examples that limit people's choice, but also the fact that there's no explanation why members of the board of directors in kindergartens, unlike all other institutions, would have to be from the ranks of public workers. I would understand that you said from the ranks of public workers in education and education because the profession would be determined, although it would be questionable whether it must then be very public perhaps because such a kind of distinction is discriminatory to the European right to discriminate people on the basis of the sector in which they work. So that's where I think you have to comply with European directives, and ultimately, and really with our Constitution, unless there's some explanation that we haven't seen right now, which is exactly why they have to be public workers, some sort of explanation that would be in line with the Constitution. I don't see him. But I'd like to hear maybe you have some argument behind it. I would like to point out one more thing, very important, and this is the fact that Croatia is even after this, and by the number of children enrolled or the proportion of children enrolled in pre-school education and education from four years away, and here we are again at the bottom of the EU scale, or from all EU member states, we are last, below us from the European countries, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Turkey and Northern Macedonia, so from the EU member states at least 81.8% by 2020, enrolled children in pre-school education and education. The EU average is 95.5%, so we have a huge gap to this European average that we want to reach. In this sense, we also welcomed the fact that the NGOs have indeed set up funds for the construction of new kindergartens, but we want to highlight the problem that you have now had that problem that you have funded, for example, rural development of kindergartens in different units of local self-government where these units of local self-government, because of their size and low budget, cannot finance the maintenance of these institutions, neither the salaries of employees, nor equipment, nothing, can subsidise kindergartens to the extent that they should and indeed the state there must assume the obligation of subsidisation for those units of local self-government which alone cannot so that all children in the whole of Croatia have equal, indeed equal access to pre-school education and education, and in order to raise this to 95% of what is currently an EU average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81988	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81989	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with an associate. We from the Social Democrats Club will support these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which introduces certain newspapers, aimed at increasing children's coverage, but also at improving the humane conditions in kindergartens. We believe that this issue is a priority issue for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and we think there should be no doubt there, but that the state should clearly define that this is its basic and main demographic measure. Ensure the kindergarten available throughout Croatia for all children because preschool education results from developed people, people who are socialised, people who want to learn, who want to get involved in other educational processes. And today we talked in the morning in the first debate exactly what problems Croatia is facing today when we talk about adult education. The proposed legislative changes introduce an obligation to organise pre-school education and education in all units of local self-government. For those who do not have kindergartens in their field of law, the obligation to co-finance children's kindergartens from their areas in the nearest neighbouring area is prescribed. The novelty related to the increase in staff conditions relates to the possibility of hiring teachers of a classroom class from 1 to 4th grade in kindergartens where they would implement a preschool programme. Teachers working in kindergartens would have the obligation to acquire additional competences, specifically obtaining an academic title as a first-grader of preschool education and education. We would like to know today where, as well as under what conditions, we would like to know today how these same people will be compared to those who completed preschool education. Whether they will also have to be interns in those institutions or not. So from all of this we're reading, they're not going to be in the same position, and we think it might be one of the problems or disadvantages that they're going to bring out here, but we support exactly that expansion of opportunities and employment means class teachers. Furthermore, the possible problem we see is how to achieve the economic price of housing children in kindergartens. The large, large majority of public kindergarten funds come from units of local self-government whose kindergarten belongs to or is the founder, and the second largest source of parental participation. General public funding from units of local self-government in recent years has been stable and accounted for about 79% of all kindergarten incomes. Garden fees determined on the basis of decisions on the criteria for determining the priorities for enrolment and the criteria for payment of services are due to be paid by parents. According to studies, the average is slightly less than a third and about 33% of the economic price shown, or between 550 and 600 kuna per month. The problem is in local self-government units that have significantly less fiscal capacity, so parent participation is on average increasing. Income from private sources will likely be higher in kindergartens that have a rich offer of special programs or additional content of sport activities, languages, Montessori for which parents pay extra so-called. The above standard that we consider to be extremely important to our kindergartens now in the 21st century. How can you allow all children who want to be enrolled in kindergartens? That's what we think to be a priority, to make kindergarten available to preschool children. How to provide assistants to their children with special needs? How to ensure the transport of children to remote settlements? Who will give us the answers to these questions? Who's going to finance that? It turns out here that these are all financial obligations that will fall on the burden of units of local self-government and that will not be achieved without them. If this is decentralisation, more decentralisation of fiscal resources should also be implemented because this is how it depends on local leaders, on their will, on their programme and on the possibilities of their budget. I'm just going to give you an example here's a broken clay. The other day in Glina, we heard that their fiscal capacities were reduced because those original revenues coming from the utility were gone. Why? Because objects that have a red and yellow label are free of these receipts, these are their original assets. The original means from which they must pay both these and these expenditures. The government didn't show itself to them, they don't know how they're going to pay their employees' salaries because they're going to break 20% of the budget. They don't know how they're going to finance what's basic, and here it's preschool education. So, a particularly sensitive issue for us is the purpose of introducing preschool institutions to the application of what we already have in the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. We believe that the obligation should be imposed on pre-school institutions to report to the competent social care authority or to another competent authority cases of infringement of the rights of children. Special forms of violent behavior, sexual abuse, neglect or neglect, abuse or exploitation of a child. We suggest you take care of it not because today is the International Day of Human Rights but because our children deserve it. They must have the same approach as children in primary and secondary education. Same standard. It would also be good to adopt a sublegal regulation which would elaborate more on such a commitment on how to handle a pre-school institution in case we find that there has been a violation of the rights of children. It is necessary to provide for criteria for equating the co-financing of pre-school education at national level as well as the harmonisation and harmonisation of criteria and conditions for enrolment of children in kindergartens at national level. It would be very good if, in the very text of the law or in the special regulation adopted under the law, it were to be defined. Different criteria for co-financing of kindergartens by founders in particular units of local and regional or sometimes regional self-government result in unequal availability of pre-school education and education of children. So it must be, it must become an obligation of the Republic of Croatia. There must no longer be any slowness for us. This must not be left to local units, and I say regional self-government. The criteria and conditions of enrolment in kindergartens are very different, sometimes they are non-transparent. General acts of childcare units of local self-government provide for different conditions and criteria for enrolment of children, some of which even have discriminatory effects that we have pointed to through JLS appeals, or that is shown to the founders, sometimes without success because the PDOO does not contain a framework or criteria to be followed. For example, there is a condition of residence for enrolment in kindergartens in certain JLS which parents most often complain about, requiring both parents to have a residence in the area of one JLS just where the kindergarten is located. Such a condition for kindergarten results in an unwarranted distinction between children and may constitute discrimination against children by family status. There are many circumstances why families have different addresses of residences, divorce, sometimes worse living conditions, living in different addresses because of employment, resettlement, or others. That's what we need to consider, it can't stay on the thinking JLS. We also meet the condition that if two or more children get the same number of points in order on the list of order of the championship determines according to the age of the child, from the older child to the younger child for kindergartens, or from the younger to the older ones for the Jaslic groups of children. The application of this provision makes it difficult to enrol children who were born in the autumn and winter months and who complete the necessary time for enrolment after an invitation to tender or after the start of the preschool year. Furthermore, with a year-old child, the parent usually ends parental leave, and what is it, for example, in December when there is no possibility of enrollment in kindergarten, and before that, the child does not meet the condition of age to be enrolled in kindergarten. Take a look at the current situation in the City of Zagreb. What about children who can't be enrolled in kindergarten right now, and some other measures are being taken away from them? No, I'm not saying we don't support such an option to make it perfectly clear, but we're asking that there are possibilities of enrolling children in kindergartens and beyond those regular deadlines. In addition, there is no guarantee to allow the entry of children of unemployed parents in the light of the criteria for the exercise of the right of advantage from art. 20 laws. So, of course I don't have 10 minutes to say everything in Croatia that should ensure that Croatia really is a progressive country, that Croatia really predicts that children are the future as we all like to say, that children are the greatest potential and that we are leading that UNICEF's first 3 are the most important. In order for the first three to really be the most important we have to enable the first 3. Children’s lives can be attended by kindergarten and their parents can use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81990	Following individual debates, Sanja Radolovic, the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81991	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I agree with my colleague Posavec Krivec, not for 10 minutes or 5 minutes as far as I have in an individual debate, for an hour every MP here today would not be enough to elaborate every item and article of the law in terms of scope, and given what is most important, we all have the most important children to believe, and accordingly I will just say that these amendments and additions to the Preschool and Education Act really bring a significant number of welcome incremental changes aimed at increasing the quality of early preschool education and education, but we, in addition to the declarative ones themselves, have really essential problems in Croatia in the field of early and preschool education and education. So we all know that for me to succeed in school it is very important to go to kindergarten before then, but young citizens of our Republic often do not have access to such public services, especially in rural areas. We had paradoxically large funds from EU funds through the rural development programme where kindergartens were being built, that the name of the rural development programme did not deceive you, that kindergartens were being built in cities, tourist cities in areas that were not therefore rural, which were not so populated, met the criteria themselves. And what really happened? Now these same kindergartens, so the resources provided for the infrastructure, they can't meet what's most important, so the content of the kindergarten itself, the form, the walls were built, but now the content itself, there's no money, so many JLS in the first row of the community complained that they simply can't meet the pedagogue standard, in the first place they can't hire a single educator on 12 children, they don't have money for it. On the one hand, I repeat, it was not considered when it was provided through the rural development programme for infrastructure, I see no reason why the European Social Fund did not provide resources to meet these same kindergartens and their pedagogical standards. But then I'll just remind you of one more thing. According to Eurostat, therefore, in Croatia the kindergarten attends barely half of children aged 3 to 6 years, but what is particularly concerned are data from our counties. So for example in Brodsko-Posavina County kindergarten, watch out, there are only 18.9% of children to the City of Zagreb where almost 90% of children go to kindergarten. But I think it's pretty scary for all of us that in Brod-Posavina County, there are other counties very close, 18.9% of children. However, as I said about school success is very important in kindergarten, but not just for school success. According to one study also conducted by the civil society association, what worries is that children who do not go to kindergarten and come from socially endangered families have even 17 times less chances of not becoming social cases again as families from which they come. I think that we should all be concerned about this together and that we should imagine it, and thus adapt these legal changes accordingly. What came into my eye first is what I think should be added, and that's some kind of framework provision that would actually be a kindergarten, I'm not going to be forced to say, but we'd still have to think about working time. Here I come from a Pula where nearly 60,000 residents live and you in my town have only one city kindergarten that works until 8:00. Well, look, we don't all work in offices, we don't all work from 7-15 or 8-16, some parents just don't have the same chances, let the kids don't have the same opportunities, and I think they'd be right there in that article. The 16th century of the 2nd century, which highlights the correct provision on the obligation to comply with the needs of children employed by parents, should add a provision to kindergartens, so to speak, to give some part-time obligation to adjust their working hours. And there would certainly be a warning to the fact that what is currently happening in the local self-government unit in many kindergartens is that if both parents are not employed, if both parents do not have HZMO confirmation you are actually with your child at the bottom of the registration scale. I mean, we just have to look at different situations, someone might have lost their current job, someone might have some kind of disease, so they can't work, these are all situations that this bill has to be better coordinated and defined. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81992	We have two replicas, the first to honor Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81993	Thank you very much. You mentioned that the city of Zagreb has the biggest coverage of children, but we must mention that the city of Zagreb was also the most problematic as regards respect for the state pedagogical standard and one of the problems why it started with the financing of this measure, because the parent-teacher was because Zagreb who had the funds would not invest in its kindergartens but was easier to isolate for mothers who would sit at home with a ban on children going to kindergartens, which is totally unacceptable. And secondly, the small municipalities that adhere to the state pedagogical standard will be punished through this law. For example, the Municipality of Konjščina covers DV in Konjščina, the neighbouring Municipality of Hrasćina which has no kindergarten, the Bedenica Municipality which already has enquiries to join the kindergarten and Budinščina Municipality which opened its kindergarten in September. From 2018-2021, the costs have increased enormously, with children of these neighbouring municipalities now having to join, and there is no help from the state. There's a problem, those who respect DPS and want to keep quality won't that power. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81994	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81995	I thank you for your very high-quality question. Yeah, but I also said it means we've provided infrastructure funds again now the prime minister with a whole world of buses with 22 billion euros or so he says now he's grown to 24 I don't know where he's from, but irrelevantly, then I wonder why he simply doesn't put the line of financing ad act for all that need to say soft infrastructure for content and meeting pedagogical standards and I'd still put the criteria, all those who have succeeded in withdrawing funds from the Rural Development Programme or someone else to build that kindergarten I think we should have a priority to meet that pedagogical standard. You mentioned the city of Zagreb, I absolutely agree, I watched little and practice in other EU countries, Ireland alone has a rate lower than Croatia, but why? They at the level of the whole state have such a measure as parent-teacher which is significantly different and is much better and the more parents even avoid using it, already going to work and hire [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81996	The next replica honours Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81997	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've pointed out a few important things, among other things, respecting pedagogical standards, the problem of daycare I think we all have in our midst, parents are busy, working longer, and then they have nowhere to go with children before they get back from work. Do you think these amendments to the law will provide a sufficient number of educators? So there are some changes in the course that will allow the primary education teacher to work, so that it will allow trainees to pass the expert exam, etc. Do you think that's enough? I mean, we're always late in something, and now we've only got two years to get the state to bring in a national children's kindergarten network, and then the question is, who's going to be working here, do we even plan our expertise on time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81998	Thank you for asking, dear colleague. So that I think we're very late and I think it's quite unrealistic that we're going to bring a national network so easily, the national network on the first hand has obviously units of regional and local that haven't been asked a lot when these legal changes are passed, and I'm sure they'll be the first ones to get on their feet and they won't be so easy to let me say that the minister brings them that national network if they already know that they can't meet any of those pedagogical standards that are being determined, so I don't think it's realistic to expect it at all. As far as kindergarten hours are concerned, so I also think that the state jumps in and helps local self-government units so that all kindergartens in their neighborhoods can, as I say, meet that legal obligation that has not yet been defined by law and that they can extend their working hours rather than just satisfy that standard until 16, 1.30 as 95% of kindergartens in Croatia work today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u81999	Next individual debate, respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82000	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here are a few words to tell you in five minutes about the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law which we know is after its first adoption in 2007. It has been changed three times to expect this change to be a positive step, which will result in a qualitative improvement in the early and pre-school education system in Croatia. What is really the primary goal of achieving a greater coverage of children and the equality of availability of early and preschool education and education throughout Croatia. I've already said that, but I'm going to point out again, the goal is until 2026. reach a 90% coverage of all children by working preschool education, opening 22.500 new places for the students and of course up to 2030. Achieving the full coverage of children in Croatia early and pre-school education, the NPOO for this is foreseen, it is projected for this amount of €1.62 billion, and this shows, in fact, the strategic commitment of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic from 2017 to today to improve the quality and availability of early and pre-school services and education to all users, and certainly we must stress that this is also an important demographic measure. And I will remind you that the government of Andrej Plenkovic, through various ministries, whether it is the Ministry of Agriculture, the former Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, whether it is the Ministry of Labour to date built or still builds, renovates, upgrades 500 kindergartens in Croatia. And that's a fact. So, this measure, therefore, construction, construction, adaptation of kindergartens throughout Croatia, is, in my opinion, one process that was started in 2017, based on what I said to the strategic commitment of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic to this important demographic measure and, of course, it is expected that we will reach and reach a European standard in the case of early pre-school education and education. I will remind you that during 2018 311 children's kindergartens in 250 municipalities and towns in Croatia were built, renovated, adapted, invested in 375 million kuna. So, I'm talking about European funds through the Ministry of Demography, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour. In the same way, projects of extended stay or two-way work in kindergartens are co-financed. I would like to remind you that in 2019, a project of co-financing of the work of kindergartens, kindergartens, which can be called direct subsidies of children's kindergartens in municipalities of 1 to 4 categories of development with 500 kuna per child. At that time, 78 municipalities of 1 to 4 categories were included in 2019, and I will stress that these were the funds coming from the state budget. So these are national funds not funds from funds. In 2020, a new 101 kindergarten in 26 cities and 75 municipalities was built, built up. Thus, after the municipalities went to the coverage and cities in which 33.8 million kuna was invested through the Central State Demography Office. Similarly last year, 109 co-financing contracts for children's kindergartens were signed. So, a project was continued that was launched by Minister Murganic and I by state secretary Mrs. Josic in the Central State Demography Office from the new 24 municipalities, the new 20 million kuna invested from the state budget. And here's the information from the Central State Demography Office that this measure will be extended to not only the municipalities but also the cities. I'm just going to say one example from my Virovitica-Podrava County where we built from these all measures numbered 11 municipalities, we have 11 kindergartens in 13 of our municipalities. One example of good practice where 3 municipalities of Čacinci, Čajavica and Crnac newly built 3 kindergartens in their municipalities set up a public institution that reduced the administration, so we have increased the availability of kindergartens. It's just one example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82001	Replica is a respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82002	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, the esteemed colleague is that we're a little bit here in this assembly, but we're all for these changes. My question to you is whether we are now called to follow how this law will be implemented and so that it is not good for the Proposer to have to not tell a lite of time how it will all be realized because life does not stand. So life goes, children are born and they need accommodation in kindergarten. If we pass the law now, and he's not known somewhere in the drawer for a while then we haven't actually achieved what he is, which is to enable our parents to do their job and to have their children in a safe place to grow up and grow up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82003	Thank you, dearly respected colleague, that, therefore, the amendment and addition of this law can be discussed whether we could go to a new law or remain on the amendments and the addition is now secondary. It's actually part of this process that's been going on since 2017 and '18. the year to date and an indicator of the strong commitment of the government of Andrej Plenkovic to the construction, construction of kindergartens, subsidisation, co-financing of children's kindergartens, improving the quality of services in kindergartens through extended, extended two-way work is actually a strong demographic measure. And that's why we're here to monitor and see what effects this law will have in the future. You're a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the other day we came to the conclusion on the board that we're going to ask the Ministry to deliver a report on the DPS, so to the state pedagogical standard not only in kindergartens but in schools, we're going to see what the situation is. Of course, and when it comes to the state pedagogical standard that you need new... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82004	The next replica honours Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82005	My colleague Bedeković is good news and safe for Croatia and for every municipality and city that has been participated in this tender and built one of the 311 kindergarten facilities. But what we need to make sure now is that each of these kindergartens lives and survives. Now we have to set that standard, of course, but I will repeat it again now, you now through this law every institution, kindergarten has to have a full-time director, there will be a need to hire new educators of professional associates if they find them, as well as an increasing number of children with disabilities will need assistants, energy prices and food prices as well as the economic price of kindergartens. So we have to deal with the problem in some way and find a way to help local self-government units that have beautiful buildings according to all the standards to ensure in these buildings and quality, it's the biggest challenge after this law and we have to face it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82006	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82007	Thank you very much, very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very I agree with you, of course, these are the challenges ahead of us. So we've secured the base, provided we're a good part of the material base, listen to 500 kindergartens in the last five years isn't a small thing, so we've really done a lot of what we've built new ones. That's why I said at the beginning it's a process. Of course we'll have to follow very well what's going on, so I set an example from my county about these three municipalities that we made on one page reduced administration and increased availability. There may be one example for other kindergartens, and I also deliberately highlight this project of subsidisation or co-financing of children's kindergartens with 500 kuna per child, these are national funds from the national budget, this was a kind of piloting of 2019. And in '18, that's something to take care of. And that's something that needs to become normal. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82008	The next replica honours Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82009	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Vesna Bedeković, I have had the opportunity to note that colleagues who had just discussed in an individual debate have not been well informed or informed about what the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has done in the past five years not only with kindergartens but in general with a demography which is a strategic orientation, so I am glad that you mentioned it again and I will repeat that this government has built or reconstructed about 500 new kindergartens in the past five years, and I think it is extremely commendable and that this is something that we have to repeat more often so that there are no such errors of colleagues on the left because there are good examples of newly built kindergartens that would not be ashamed of the city of Zagreb as one in the Municipality of Ravna Gora in Gora Kotar Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82010	Answer. There isn't? You have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82011	Thank you very much. My colleague, what I initially pointed out and pointed out, so demographics are starting as one of the top priorities of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic since 2017. To this day. I don't have time to list what's been done so far. In my view, then, demographics are a cross-resoring issue and a horizontal issue involving all ministries is therefore a complete government. Let us not forget that the government of Andrej Plenkovic was founded in the beginning by the Council for Demographic Revitalisation, which designed demographic measures through its various activities. Let us not forget that the issue of demographic problems has been raised by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic to a European level, let us not forget that this is a problem that more than half of the EU member states face. So the problem and the issue of demographics and the necessity of addressing demographic problems This government has raised to one relevant level. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82012	The next debate is individual respected representatives of Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82013	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to look back in these few minutes around two important items that are quite close to me, and that's the health care part and the issue of Roma integration. Therefore, as regards the amendments to this proposal, Art. 4th, 5th and 7th are now using one more adapted and it seems to me to be a more comprehensive term, a health care programme and improvements in the health of children in kindergartens and schools in which early and preschool education is conducted. It is also very important that the profession also points out that these programmes continue prevention projects, so preventive programmes controlled by brushing teeth and kindergartens and schools, the "Living Healthy" programme, so I am not really happy with the fact that in the recently voted 2022 budget, even the reduced amount of funds for this programme in 2021 was 12.9 million kuna, 2022. 4.1 million kuna and 2023. 348,000 kuna, so not only are the financial resources too small, but it is of course important and that we have staff professional staff to do so. The programmes mentioned above belong to the work of health care professionals and should actually be as visible as they are, of course, of particular interest in improving children’s health. It is the medical directors, as they themselves say, who oversees the implementation of those national programmes as a continuous health education and for which they keep records of health care. As regards nutrition, it is very important to point out that kindergarten staff, in particular kitchen and other staff, require additional education in the field of diabetes, given the fact that there is an increasing number of children involved in preschool education systems that have nutritional allergies or have some specific forms of diet, type of diabetes, etc., so it is very important that the competent health ministry in working groups who will work on health care programmes will also be involved in this matter. It is important that all units of local self-government are involved, and I will mention the example of my town of Čakovec where we medical professionals volunteered to participate in a project called “Healthy City” where we visited all preschool and school institutions in the area of the city and where we actually audited all the menus. I say, we volunteered, but of course it's important that units of local self-government join if possible with projects. The profession also says that it is necessary to include in addition to all of this the Croatian Chamber of Nurses, from which both provosts and nurses, because there are more and more children who have certain chronic diseases or special conditions in which they need to know how to use the medicine, such as diazepan lysm, so the adrenaline auto-injector, so insulin, an insulin pump, such as a glycaemic measurement sensor. Therefore, inter-resorship cooperation of several ministries is important to address the issue of additional education and other staff, which is of course the need to amend legislation. The education is currently carried out by a health care professional through health care, but since one healthcare professional is on several facilities, she is not enough to jump from one facility to another in particular emergency situations, so in that sense one certified additional education and another professional staff should certainly be worked on. And now a few more sentences about what I am in the tail of principle, and that is the question of Roma education in the Republic of Croatia. There are two important documents. The National Strategy for Roma Inclusion 2013 to 2020 and the National Plan for Roma Inclusion 2021 and 2027 I said I'm already coming from Međimurje, and we're very aware of this problem that in fact not enough children of Roma national minorities are involved in pre-school education programmes. The big problem is that I asked the secretary of state if he thought it was enough for two years because the fact is that too few children attend these programmes at all. So, according to some data, it's less than a third, according to UNICEF and the Central State Demography Office, as many as 1 out of 5 Roma children. And then these kids come to your primary schools, they don't know any more language, they have to actually be in, in kind of a class just with Roma kids, and then we listen to how we segregate Roma kids, which, of course, isn't true. So here we encourage all programmes that will allow for further education of Roma in these preschool education programmes and of course there is also a question of responsibility and parents to participate in these programmes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82014	Next individual debate, respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82015	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, this law has two, two basic segments for me. One is this expert who prescribes conditions for people who can work in preschool and education institutions, and in that I won't do much, I won't hold on much, that's what colleagues and colleagues have already said. I would ask the promoters to take another look at the arguments made in the public debate from those who spoke about it. But the other part is a purely political part, and it can be briefly reduced to the next part. First and that is the issue of centralisation and decentralisation, are we because children in all of Croatia have the same standard in preschool education or are we to have better in richer municipalities and cities, and in less wealthy municipalities and cities they have worse. And that's two criteria. One is, therefore, the number of children who can be admitted to preschool education institutions with little senseless writing under the law that depopulation will increase the percentage of those who are, who will be enrolled. And the second is what is the standard that will have children who are in kindergartens. Because if a smaller percentage of children will be enrolled in kindergartens, and there is a better standard that will make a greater difference between those who are enrolled and who are not. Or we'll have a priority to enroll all the kids who cost something, and then the state will give some minimum standard, and units of local self-government will do as much as they can to fix that standard for their own. It's supposed to be politics. And I can see from this that the government still doesn't know what her priority is. Are we going to enroll all children with a lower standard or are we going to enroll fewer children with a higher standard if we talk about finances? In fact, I'm going to quote that we're being given the building for kindergarten fully equipped we don't want it because we wouldn't be able to finance the standard that is, which of us requires the state. So, so much o, so many employees, equipment etc. This is no longer possible for some local self-government units. This yes, that these in neighbouring municipalities will have the possibility to pay and receive children in kindergartens in the neighbouring municipality as a kind of functional integration of local self-government units, which is one of our political priorities. That's why I'd like to hear the answer and see which direction the government wants. If our goal is to make as many children in kindergartens as possible and we are prepared to do so as a state to single out the money, it must be seen in the budget. If we leave it to the local self-government which is the same legitimate then some of them may be the goal we want to enter everything, and some of them may be the goal of those who are enrolled we want to ensure that the better standard and they will decide, then that's their authority, then we raise our hands from it. So let's decide whether a state like HDZ 2'13, '14, when a fellow Glasovac proposed an amendment to co-finance the part that the units of local self-government will meet the minimum standard that the state prescribes, and then let those who are a little stronger, richer or the priority may be the poorest but want to invest all the money in kindergarten, then let them, based on the will of their representative bodies or executive authorities as their political priority, because so citizens want to vote for them, children in kindergarten to be able to do as best standard, and it will spend less on the asphalting of the streets I don't know about cleaning, etc., it is now, we have to decide to leave it to the local self-government to be its political priority, or the state will now decide to work without or with some test, okay, whether we pay or not. So, I think that, we will support in the first reading of this bill, I urge you to once again promote these professional aspects, especially the conditions we heard in the public debate, but the political response would like what is a priority to this government as regards kindergarten, a number of children, and we will invest in buildings or a better standard for those who are there, but then the state will do, not local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82016	We have a replica, the first respected Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82017	Thank you very much. As far as political commitment and policymaking are concerned, as regards early preschool and education institutions, if you look at NGOs, then you will see clearly that the goal, as I said and pointed out, is to achieve a coverage of 90% of kindergarten children by 2026 and a complete coverage by 2030. In addition to this regional balance, perhaps through functional integration of several municipalities. I set an example, and as far as I understand from your debate, you welcome it. The key to me for all is the network of institutions at national level for the first time in cooperation to units of local and regional self-government, the key is the state pedagogical standard and helping what I said through pilot projects, so helping to subsidise children's accommodation in kindergartens in municipalities and cities from 1st to 4th category of development in order to just avoid this What did you say? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Some will have the best conditions for someone worse. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82018	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82019	Thank you. So, I've seen a lot of goals in various long-term and less long-term plans, that kind of peace in the world and love among people who haven't been achieved, but those goals that were both in the plans and in the budget, and then translated into laws had a greater percentage achieved than those that were just in the plans. As there is an idea, your gasoline is ours, it seems to me that a few provisions here are the ideas of a ministry that should be paid by a local self-government that seems to me to have very little money. One aspect of the ministry's ideas and money with local self-government and local self-government money should be found, decentralisation is a nice word, but this means that those in rich municipalities and poor municipalities will not have the same standard [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82020	Next replica, respected Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82021	I thank the vice president of HS. A respected colleague, the state pedagogical standard is such and should not be pollemized. You've opened these two topics now and it's like we're going to primary school and if we can't fill everything we're not going to study 12 subjects, we're going to study 8 subjects, which is just not good. And I think at this point that the coverage is good about enrolling children in kindergarten, but also that the tendency to be even better is that all children go to kindergartens. And I think indeed this government has invested a lot of money in the last four years to equip kindergartens and improve the enrollment structure of kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82022	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82023	Thank you. In the light of this bill, it is said that the coverage is very unevenly distributed across the country, so that some units of local self-government record the order of enrolment 75%, and others reach a 30% entry, so you cannot be satisfied with 75 and 30. And what you said about the items, so what not every single one of them was before I didn't follow for a while, now I'm going to have to change some living circumstances again, so it became important to me where I could get through with a baby cart, I hadn't noticed before, there was talk about the heavy bags of students at school. You have a first class with a huge bag of overcrowded programs, that's exactly what you said, so no, you have the possibility of children being careful so much and so many hours a day and you have to choose what's most useful for them in those few hours. Let's get out of line now, and that's a different story. That's not normal times, so I can't compare it, so that's this. So you have some priorities This distinguishes politics from politics. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82024	The next replica honours Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82025	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bauk, as far as the political part of your debate is concerned, I must stress that the priority of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government is very clear and well-known, and these are facts as far as you are concerned, and the fact is that in the last five years, this government has been through various ministries. funding, co-financed construction, construction, equipment for more than 500 kindergartens and that's what stands for. [[Attack Bauk: Andrej Plenkovic.]] As far as the expert part of your debate is concerned, I would just like to mention that it seems to me that you have been a little bit of a symptom of the situation between municipalities and cities towards preschool education because it is not true that the richer ones invest more and the poorer ones invest less. I think it's a little overly simplified because on the ground you see that mayors and mayors who have valuable attitudes and commitment that demographics are very, very important to them regardless of the amount of their budgets. That's it, then. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And look. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] through investment in demographics. [[Stain Sanader: Answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82026	Mrs. Buric, according to my analysis, you've mentioned the name and last name of Andrej Plenkovic 624 times so far, when it's thousands of times I'll bring you a big bouquet of roses, yet he's my countryman down with Hvar, that's the first. And secondly, as far as what you said last we agreed, that's where we agreed because if you remember at one point I said, maybe they'll invest in kindergartens and they're not the richest, and they won't clean the streets and pave the way for the road, remember that I said it? So, I said it depends on the political priorities of the unit of local self-government but it should be combined if we want our children to have a similar standard of what the government provides as a minimum and what, state, government, budget whatever, and what remains to the political representatives of local self-government to invest in or kindergartens, I mean in Zadar investing in a basketball club, and somewhere they're going to invest in soccer clubs, and somewhere they're going to be in kindergartens, and somewhere they're going to have money because they have money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82027	The final debate follows, the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, state secretary and associate here he is at the end of today's debate on a very, very important subject, and this is an amendment to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. I will just briefly repeat, seek to recapture what is the goal as we have already pointed out several times, greater availability and better regional equality of the early and pre-school education programme. What is important is the highlighted key, among other things, to an important part of the law of children's kindergarten networks at a national level that has not existed so far and which will allow better planning for the development of a network of kindergartens with the aim of reducing differences and equating conditions whether it is rural or urban spaces. Likewise, a network of children's kindergartens will be brought in cooperation with units of local, regional and regional self-government, therefore with founders. And another important point of the law, and that is something that we have today as a trend in the work of lack of professional staff in kindergartens, especially the lack of completed graduates, educated educators. There is a need to provide the necessary professional staff to enable, among other things, the employment of primary education teachers with the obligation to further acquire competences so as to be able to implement early and pre-school education programmes. Here I think that until the second reading of the secretary of state should consider, so the proposal is by acquiring 60 ECTS points, I'm not sure the difference between, I've been doing a little bit of an analysis of the study programmes of early and preschool education studies, there's a lot more difference. There are much more differences, much more than 60 ECTS points there will need to be cleverly invented, no mention of practice. Practice is very important because it is not the same to work with children of early and preschool age and age with children in the first four grades of primary school, but I have time to read the second reading to make it even better. What is important to highlight changes in the criteria for enrolment of children in kindergartens will certainly allow access to some of the early and preschool programmes and education. What I consider to be a very valuable contribution to this law is the regulation of provisions on curriculative documents which will bring the early and pre-school education and education system in line with other parts of the education system, i.e. the national curricula for early and pre-school education and education, will be adopted in accordance with the general framework national document. The national curricula will be made by a minister of decision. Importantly, I think, the important point of the new, the change and the addition is the selection of directors who will in some way now comply with different sectors, so the new provisions of the directors move to the prescribed level of the seventh VHS therefore high, with the VESS to the VSS to make it clearer. So, you're looking for a degree of university graduate study, which I think is fine, it's equalization. The mandate has been extended to 5 years, and of course, why we have more and more educators in the system with high professional training and I think that this needs to be coordinated. Of course, the law stipulates that those directors who have VHS will not be damaged at the moment, of course they will be able to remain in their mandates and no one will be harmed or without a job. And what is of great value by my assessment, children with developmental difficulties is given adequate care through the employment of a third parent or assistant for children with disabilities. That's a lot of value. And what I think speeds up the process and reduces the possibility of different manipulations is certainly the possibility of a process of enrolling, doing the enrolment procedure by electronic means, I think it's a great thing that is also in the system of secondary education, but certainly also in enrolment of higher education institutions, it has made it possible to avoid any machinations and poor actions. These are just some of the notes, we are at the end of the debate, I will finally remind you and stress that the club of the representatives of the HDZ will support the amendment and addition of the Preschool Education and Education Act in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-10-0.u82029	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue on Monday 13 December with the final proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 225. Here, have a nice rest of the day. Session interrupted at 15.42 hours.
