ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u57800	Dear Vice-President of HS Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. We all know who Anna Frank is, we all know who Leah Deutsch is, we know about Diana Budisavljevic, but I'm going to ask here today if we know about our little Vukovars? Has anyone heard of George, Igor, John, Graciel, Antony, all the countries of Europe after II. svt. The wars that carried the bouquet on their backs have museums of war childhood. Croatia has nothing to date. I would recommend to everyone the book Ani Galović Mama does not see the sky, interrupted werewolf childhoods in '91. And in '92, it refers to children who died, killed, disappeared during the battle and until June of '92. At the time of occupation, so-called SAO Krajina. It also refers to the town of Vukovar and some border places because the county and municipally otherwise formed was Croatia in '91. It's just that today it's just that sometimes it's the people that are insolent. Children are all nationalities, so our Croats, Serbs, Germans, Hungarians, Ukrainians, even a boy of Muslim religion. There's no difference because every life is equally valuable under this sky. In Vukovar, 86 children were not killed, but it was a falsely interpreted sentence by the late Dr. Njavre which is available in the work Marija Radića na Hrčak Portal of scientific works. Dr. Crescent. Navaro mentions that during the Battle of Vukovar, 86 wounded children were admitted to the hospital, not all died, 12 died, and that's too much. So many of the children Ana Galovic wrote about never came alive or dead to Vukovar Hospital. Besides, dr. Njavro couldn't even know that 3 boys will be killed on Ovcara, Igor Kacic, Dragutin Balog, Tomislav... As one in the breakthrough, Igor Chernok could not have known that 30 years later, four boys would still be led missing, Igor Balar, Sinisa Rajkovic, Ivan Barbaric and Jovan Josip Krošnar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the youngest and oldest victim, Antonia Zeko, perhaps the youngest victim in the entire Homeland War, the infant, the thumbs would tell me today, born at the 25th week of pregnancy, put into an incubator, a grenade fell, a cut off supply of electricity, and the child died. Antonija also has a birth certificate, a death certificate, which was added in her book by Ana Galovic. Vukovar also has a victim of Ivan Kljajic who was 6 months old when he died of a grenade. Six months. We also have Matthew Alexander, who was 2.5 years old, and we also have Ruzica Markobasic, who is a symbol of all the pregnant women killed and is not the only pregnant woman who was killed in Vukovar. During the battle, she was killed by a gunman on Lusca Marija Kreko, who was also pregnant, and Željka Brešić was also killed by a grenade, and Mirjana Doshen was 9 months pregnant when she was killed. Tanja Belbrajdić specifically wrote about this, so you can read her book, killed in Vukovar with an unborn baby under her heart. So I'll do it again, we all know who Anna Frank is today. And we need to know that we understand each other. But what about our children? What about our Vukovars? What about Croatian children? Why isn't that taught today, not explored? Why aren't you talking about it enough? All countries of Europe after II. svt. The wars that carried the bouquet on their backs have museums of war childhood. Let this be an appeal to the ruling. So, Penavi, Mayor, let's do it all together. So, what made me sad is that in 2020, the Ministry of Culture refused to buy this book for city libraries because they said there was no special interest. Is it possible that there is no interest in reading about children who were killed, killed, pregnant, and killed during the year of '91? and '92. in Vukovar, how is that possible? What sorrows when your country treats the greatest sanctities in this way, and that's what we'd like to change, to correct that part, is not at all, but to change this part. Vukovar is our love, Vukovar is our sacrifice, Vukovar is our greatest sanctity and as long as there is a last Croat in this country who will breathe we will never forget all that Vukovar has given us, and he has given us the most valuable freedom.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u57946	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the honourable representative Nikola Mažar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u57947	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. In us, Vukovare has a special feeling for our city and as the verse of song says while the wound is still living at the heart, and lives and lives and will forever be in us and should be in us, as well as an intertwined feeling of love and pride, but also a feeling of desire for peace, feeling and protective care for our city so that it never gets hurt again is the same in us. We need and must create hope and faith not only in the better future but also in the present. In the present of children and youngsters, in the present of all those heroes now living in the city of Vukovar. Last night I arrived from it bathed, cold, cold, which behold, and that moon bears the name within itself that we begin on November 1st when, as Christians and Catholics on the holiday of all the holy ones, we remember our loved ones, when we light candles in memory of them and for the peace and tranquility of their souls, as if giving extra weight. As the additional weight gives rise to the autumn which is the richest season in our Slavonia when the endless Slavonian plain gives its fruits, but also the autumn that is bathed in the blood and tears of innocent killed civilians and Croatian defenders, when we move and light candles and remember with dignity without prejudice in silence together with all of our villages occupied by Berk, Lovas, Opatovac, Tovarnik, Stari Jankovci, Antina, Korođa, Tordinac to Bogdanovac and when the ferocious Serbian pir is experiencing its finals for 6 days in Vukovar on November 18th and when we already knew that it was a city of heroes, when we knew by then that it was the historic battle of Croatian peoples only with the passing time we could see the supernatural heroism of Croatian defenders who today are studyingd in military wartime with the United States of America, because they had not been able to defend themselves with the same amount of war with their fellow soldiers, as to defend themselves with their military soldiers, as well as with their military soldiers, and their soldiers. Vukovar is then the city of Vukovar who put the freedom of the city ahead of their freedom and in front of their lives, the city of proud defenders and the city of all those whose heart is in '91. heard the call of Vukovar and who came to defend Vukovar, and never had any connection with it. Vukovar defends and loves in different ways through different times. Over 5,000 years of continuous settlements from the werewolf culture through the Romans and the first vineyards to craftsmen, economists and food and textile industries before the Homeland War until today. And that is why it is important that HS has brought and declared Vukovar a place of special homeland pitet, not only in the permanent memory and commitment of the Republic of Croatia but in creating the preconditions of the rest, settlement and return to the city of Vukovar. And I also thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for being given over 2 billion kunas in the city of Vukovar in the past term, and I believe that all of us will live what Croatian defenders want, especially for me politicians, which is that it is the Croatian defenders who sacrifice Vukovar as a moral compass for each of us in our daily work, in love for our country. in love with Croatia and I will finish and I will conclude with the name of the exhibition which is open for the anniversary of Vukovar "The truth is called Your name! [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you, my building!"
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58003	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58004	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I received in a meeting Monday of four young people who had recently lost their job in the service of social care because for legitimate reasons they did not want to comply with new measures and conditions so that they could come to work. In Croatia, therefore, over 30 cities are held day-to-day gatherings of citizens who are rightly concerned about this new phase of fighting the pandemic. We are all aware that there is no perfect solution, however, when I proposed at the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament that it must be discussed in this House, that the political moment justified and requested, and that it might also appease our citizens to see that the most legislative body accepts its responsibility and that we are aware of the situation Croatia is in, did not encounter the support of others, mostly others at that meeting, so it was not the will to discuss it here recently at the plenary session, which is quite one necessary thing to say, absolutely necessary. I'd say that as MPs, everyone should have a little more self-respect and defend this institution as well. It is easy to take the decisions of the headquarters and I don't think this topic will arise, but it will continue to be an impacting topic in the coming weeks and perhaps months in Croatia. I have not yet convinced myself that the covid of the certificates makes sense at all, when we look at other countries still numbers, for example in Slovenia, the problems remain large with the number of infected, and they have for months already of this covid certificate. However, I often point out that our ruling elites are alienated from ordinary people and that they actually live in a parallel world and this is seen in the last days around these affairs, which unfortunately do not surprise me, but fill the headlines every day in the media. So, how should we observe that? I said that EU membership did not guarantee that everything will work in Croatia and that institutions will do their jobs fairly and transparently but on the contrary we will continue to deal with old habits and see that the new Plenkovic HDZ is difficult to resolve and deny. But he would say the following is how our institutions actually function daily because they are trapped are not free. So, an ordinary HDZ member, that's how the journalists, Mr. Petric, now seem to be being removed, but unfortunately, he's done a lot of damage. There's already been a lot of damage. I will remind you here that Croatia will have considerable money available from the European funds for the plan, the National Recovery Plan and the Resistance in the next period. Now the question is, what can we expect from spending these funds? What good will our citizens benefit from, and what will be the benefit of individuals who are very well connected to HDZ structures? So again, I repeat this all that is being implemented on behalf of European policies, from green policy to others in Croatia, unfortunately it looks so that it is one space and opportunity for the abuse of these institutions. And companies behave accordingly. So it's much easier for companies instead of fighting in the market to make a deal with the HDZ powers and thus rapidly increase their revenues. It's a lot easier than fighting on the market. So it's clear to everyone from the first look at what it's all about, one favored is I'd say shamelessly and we're just waiting for who it is to be, which will be the next cases unfortunately. So, hard habits change, we've been looking at it too long, and time is here in the Homeland Movement long ago we've said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58135	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58136	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and colleagues, watching the news yesterday, we could conclude that our country is in big trouble, and our citizens are in a lot of trouble. However, 3 top-ranking state officials, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament held press conferences on who or did not use the phone during a meeting. I am therefore particularly pleased and I welcome that, the fact that the common sense and responsibility arising from the behaviour of the public office has been shown by Ombudsman Tena Simonović, who addressed the government and the headquarters, and has brought their attention to the fact that the deadline for the adoption of the Covid certificate is approaching, and that the details of that decision are not yet known. The Ombudsman pointed to the fact that the necessary information is necessary for the public authorities themselves, for a number of state and public institutions which still need a certain period of time to prepare for the implementation of the new Staff Decision. She pointed out that important information is also important for the employees of these public bodies themselves who simply have to adapt to new conditions, but instead of giving them clear instructions and information on what is going to happen and how they are caused by fears about the loss of their jobs. The Ombudsman also pointed out that it is important information for all citizens because the achievement of many of their fundamental human rights depends on the possibility of physical arrival in these places. After this brilliant reaction by the Ombudsman, it was announced that the decision of the headquarters would be announced today, but I believe that this was not met and the purpose of this publication was already satisfied with the mere form. In this case, the timely and appropriate information and systems and the public, as well as their preparation, were missing. It just wasn't enough time for all the stakeholders in the system to solve their private circumstances in a way that meets the new headquarters measures. On the other hand, this address to the government’s attorney general and headquarters is the first more serious institutional response to the situation that we have all been to, and in particular the parliamentary deputies were obliged to react much earlier. So, regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court and of all the considerations of the Constitutional Court, I think it is high time we opened the issue and debate on the proportionality of the restrictions imposed by the measures of the headquarters and the justification of all these measures. So, I don't doubt that their goal is to prevent the continued growth of the sick and the dead, as well as to prevent the subcapacitation of the health system, but what results well from the excellent analysis of the Ombudsman's staff is that so far we didn't know for any measure in advance of its duration. It has never been defined which is an epidemiological situation or any state of completion of the hospital’s capacities which will be the trigger for the termination of the duration or implementation of any of the measures introduced. In particular, I want to say that we have all been too relaxed together and we have overly left our headquarters willing to make decisions and implement democracy in its own way, and so is democracy, constitution and constitutionality of a number of measures somewhere by whispers. The decisions of the Constitutional Court have so far been more political than legal in nature, and I particularly point out the opinions that have been taken and I call on all of you MPs to return decisions that are brutally encroaching on fundamental human rights to the frameworks of discussion and decision-making in HS, if necessary, and to the two-thirds majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58183	Thank you. The following will be on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58184	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, agreeing with my esteemed colleagues and colleagues who have talked today about this terrible megacrisis to the political and health care of the Republic of Croatia in particular regarding attempts to address the problem of stopping this terrible monster that has ruled over Croatia for the past 2 years and which our headquarters obviously does not have an appropriate, appropriate and effective approach, but not because it is such a big problem in itself but because they have not invested enough energy, enough expertise, enough tolerance, enough strength, that they have not included sufficient numbers of people of different aspects of expertise that from all the multi-functional actually points of light and that they oppose this problem. The pleasant and certainly welcome today's reaction by the esteemed Ombudsman, Mrs. Simunović Einwalter, who, in fact, from the position of the state government, points out all the senselessness and all the repression and all that segregative, discriminatory approach that the headquarters promotes at the moment and that it actually faces us that in a few days 15.11. it is the most repressive thing we have had in the territory of the Republic of Croatia since the ancient day of the Homeland War. And the Croatian public, the Croatian Parliament rightly noticed our colleague Bartulica had no opportunity at all at the plenary session as the Supreme Legislative Body nor to discuss it, nor to send a message to the executive authority, headquarters, but also to the Croatian public. And that's why this is our last moment. I think we've already passed those key critical stages of defence of democracy, freedom, constitutional rights. Our renowned professor Sanja Barić from the University of Rijeka also rightly sees and puts first the fundamental principle for limiting human rights and freedoms both in Croatia and outside Croatia. It's the principle of proportionality. And now that we've analyzed what we've been dealing with through this year and month, and what answers we've had comes to a devastating conclusion that the people who have decided on the existence of our citizens of the Republic absolutely did not respect this, one supreme constitutional principle. And now it is on a higher level for us to make it possible, in the MPs, the politicians, and the citizens first to move here in the assembly to put this debate on the defence of democracy, health, freedom, existence into focus right at the plenary session. Secondly, run all constitutional legal, labour protection mechanisms for all vulnerable groups in the Republic of Croatia. Third, call on all Croatian people to come out in the context of their constitutional opportunities and legal on the street and in public talks, in fact in public opposition and argument, to make it clear about this policy of one incurring human rights and freedom that it must stop, redefine, replace the existing headquarters and put it in the role it really has that will take care of all layers of society. So I invite you tomorrow to come to Zagreb to Mark's Square at 3:00 p.m. That every day you gather for reason throughout Croatia, to create a common climate regardless of our party's belongings, regardless of our policies in the interest of protecting the most vulnerable those who remain jobless, and, contraryly, against them, there is repression and risk the existence of their lives and their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58185	Thank you. I think it's odd at least, and this one is very dangerous to invite to the streets from this place because this is a place of democracy, we are representatives of citizens and we need to represent their interests. Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and RF, and a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58251	Good afternoon, everyone. Today I answered to speak in free speech, so I can say freely because of my own frustration with what dominates both the media space and the topics imposed by the ruling party, as well as the topics imposed by the opposition. We have a medium full of cases where it's darkening about 13 and something if I remember millions of kunas well. It's not about high amounts. I'm not reducing the value of the amount that's been taken, kidnapped, stolen, etc., but at the moment you have the owner of the food, the state that's so irresponsible, when you have a party that's convicted of crime, a criminal organization at the head of a state, which you're doing. Are you setting up a commission to determine that Minister Zhalac is responsible for what is being imposed on her? Does the opposition go with initiatives that require an investigative commission on the case of the Gralac or the opposition talk about those situations that are current and now and which we may be able to prevent? Now in Croatia HDZ is thinking of destroying an important institute, the Shipyard Institute, which is its largest flaw on huge land and which has valuable properties. These properties will be darkened and the land will be darkened. But today, no one in the media, not even from the opposition, is talking about the Naval Institute. But not only will there be crime and corruption because it is systematic, it is not random, but it will indeed take away the last possibility of scientific, technological, economic and then economic development. Because there is no economic development without major, important institutes, without products that have high added value like ships. We will give some posterboys billions of kunas, their companies that don't even have a registered website, but they sound like a super-good technologically advanced solution, and thus the government has solved the problem of technological progress, the problem of progress, the whole story of the revolution. Those institutions that have the opportunity to carry out their own revolution are shutting them down. At this moment, there is a land malfeasance in St. Sunday where a Roman who will receive 200,000 square meters of building land will be awarded 69 years for 19.934 kunas a year, but no one is talking about it that is the sum of the revolution. What's this Mate Roman gonna do? In the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we will not develop our own artificial intelligence. For robotics, we will buy one of the three most favourable offers of companies that are already developing it, for a billion and a half kuna. That'll cost us a billion and a half kuna. Today we're going to vote on the budget rebalancing in which we are in the pandemic year, so where is the health system falling apart to insert an item of a multi-purpose aircraft of Rafael that will cost us 990, 999 million euros, so a yearly 2.4 billion kuna will be given out of the budget. We're talking about a huge problem, therefore, of the lack of healthcare funds, of outstanding debts to large-scale drugs that will not be resolved if we don't launch our own Immunological Institute. The Immunological Institute is removing funds from the budget, and the existing funds that have been set up are not enough to really launch the Immunological Institute, and today we are at the interpretation of the amendments and we heard from the Secretary of State that the Immunological Institute is not actually planning to launch. So bad, bad, and from the ruling, but also from the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58346	Please welcome the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58347	Thank you very much. Priced on Sunday, November 14th, we mark World Diabetes Day on the day of the birth of a doctor, later and Nobel laureate Sir Frederick Bantnig who discovered his insulin with his student Charles Best 100 years ago. Diabetes or folk diabetes is a silent killer of the consequences that one person or more than 4 million people die every 8 seconds in the world every year. From diabetes, this silent, invisible killer in Croatia is registered to have 310.212 people, and the figure is estimated to be 534.000 people because one, one of two people has no idea that he is suffering from diabetes. When a person is left to high sugar whose symptoms are constant thirst, rapid visual impairment, first and foremost more and more, chronic fatigue, frequent urination, constant hunger, sweating and weight loss risks severe and life-threatening incurable situations and severe disability as well as addiction to other people's help and care. The results of the devastating effect of sugar on the human organism are heart attack, kidney failure, blindness, amputation of limbs individually or cumulatively. 20% of the health budget of the Republic of Croatia is spent on the treatment of diabetes, close to 6 billion kuna. 88% of this amount refers to the treatment of complications or consequences of non-treatment or the prevention of high sugar, high sugar in the body. 8% of the cost of diabetes treatment refers to medicines used to treat diabetes and about 5% for technical and orthopaedic aids. Therefore, society and people are in the interest of individual early detection of the occurrence of increased blood sugar levels, serious understanding and facts, the setting up of valid therapy, adherence to therapy, regular self-control and medical control. The continuation of regular quality life actually prevents those terribly difficult complications that happen if people leave. Unfortunately, in Croatia, among all registered patients, 53% achieve treatment goals. That's the quiet killer people get because our lizard, the factory of our sugar-degrader, doesn't work enough. High sugar causes can be genetic, excessive introduction into the organism irregular, unquality diet, insufficient physical activity, obesity, and certainly one of the most significant exposure to stress. It is interesting that when we are exposed to stress then the lizard should work the most as well as the inflammatory processes in the organism, and it cancels our obedience and this strike. I have to admit, I've been in love with diabetes for 20 years, and I personally think that the 2001 trigger was extremely psychophysical efforts and high stress. I worked intensively on human fates in three major bankruptcys, at the same time as their representative and ended up in a hospital with 27 sugars which could cause the body to collapse with a weaker organism. I had all the symptoms I had before, but I ignored them. So much for my and our seriousness. Fortunately, in those 7 days of hospital treatment, I faced myself and realized that I was a slave with a mistake, a Rigid, an impactive treatment on my happiness, a lizard had worked and with the help of pills I had lived quality for 15 years when my doctors prescribed my insulin and so it is today. It's important to be a slave to the disease, it's important to take it seriously, not to be a machine and train the endurance of the body at too low levels of sugar because 3 times in 20 years I've been on the verge of falling into hypoglycaemia and I don't want anyone, I don't want anyone to experience that feeling. It is important to eat a little and 5 meals a day of various foods without 5 white products, bread, sugar, salt, fat, pasta and not after 6 o'clock in the evening. This doesn't eat after six o'clock in the evening we all have a hard time falling and maybe we should invent a refrigerator with a time lock. What I think society should do more is public campaigns to learn about the consequences of diabetes, frequent level measurement actions throughout Croatia, but also emissions sponsored by the Ministry of Health about all the characteristics of diabetes, and in particular, forgive the terrible consequences of this disease for the human organism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And we sweets have to talk about our experiences because if they're just ours, they're insignificant and none of them have any use for it, but we can't be boring because then we're distracting, and we can't do that. We can't strangle others. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Vice President, for this extension, I find this useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u58348	I gave this extension of course for purely subjective reasons because I'm dealing with it myself, with this disease, and then this, I think, but I guess I can forgive it. But in any case, we will now take one break to 12 o'clock and at 12 o'clock, as announced, there will be a vote. It's 11:00.42.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u61378	Let's go last. It's Selection, appointment and resolution. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president and members of the Faust Vrancic Award Committee. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. So I am voting on the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president and members of the Faust Vrancic Award Committee. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 117 MPs and MPs voted and all were in favour, so a decision was made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Since we made free speeches before the vote today, I am concluding the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. The 9th session will begin on November 24th, and then I'll see you then. Good-bye, everyone. SESSION FINISHED AT 13:17 A.M. Proposal for a Law on Notification Procedures in the field of Technical Regulations and Regulations on Information Society Services (TRIS), first reading, P.Z.E. No. 185, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Notification Procedure in the field of technical regulations and regulations on Information Society Services (TRIS) and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 124 MPs and MPs voted, 117 for, 7 abstentions and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68730	Thank you very much. We are now going to make a statement on the amendments to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. In addition to the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2021 and projection of the 2022 and 2023 plan, with an explanation for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Centre for restructuring and sale, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Motorways, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by Boška Ban Vlahek, representative Damir Bajs, representative Katarina Peović, representative Marija Selak Rasdic, and representative Miro Totgergeli. The amendment was submitted by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go. First of all, Amendment No. 1, MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68731	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. The amendment is not accepted. For the purposes of mentioning the Jasenovac area and marking the anti-fascist fight in the Republic of Croatia, funds for all contractual commitments taken in 2021 are provided, and therefore no further increases are required in this chapter of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68732	Dear representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68733	Thank you. In a way, I have to say, I'm glad you didn't look back on the item I'm taking money for, because it's the subject of the interest of this amendment. In fact, if I had to look at myself first, maybe the Jasenovac area will get some funding, but they are initially reduced meanings in this budget for this year which is unacceptable, given that we are actually here in this item, we are introducing this year for the first time a new item in the budget, which in the Covid era, at a time when important items are cut, at a time when health care should be helped, new means going to what. To mark the memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. In practice, we know very well what it means. This really does not mean a historical audit, a real one, which goes through history and watches who was the victim, who was the criminal, but usually means dangerous historical auditism, and we see it when Andrej Plenkovic goes to Goli Island every year, and there he commemorates, who or what, just victims of the communist system. So, equating the socialist idea also, so in these commemorations with fascist and Nazi ideology is some subtext of all these meanings of the attempt of revisionism in Croatia, but here we are talking about the budget, such revisionism has no place in the budget, we should also address it from the point of view of the historian's approach, but certainly in the year when we have Covid crisis to introduce these new items is totally unacceptable. That's why I'm going to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68734	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the government of the Republic of Croatia. The second amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68735	The amendment is not accepted. Funds under the law enforcement activities and the National Gender Equality Plan are sufficient to meet all obligations in this year, and in the context of the development, promotion and dissemination of the new National Gender Equality Plan. Also, the proposed reduction of resources within division 020 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not possible since they are intended for the settlement of the action of 14 budgetary users who are organisationally classified within division 020 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68736	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68737	Of course, the argument is not accepted and that I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, I would like to know that these proposed funds are sufficient, so you have succeeded in reducing the resources to implement the National Plan for Gender Equality. You might ask a cynic why you singled out the funds for that item in the first place when you hadn't brought that plan, politics, gender equality strategy in seven years. So what do you spend it on? What do you need those funds for? You haven't been able to bring one document in seven years. A key document that you need in general to absorb EU funds in the recovery and resilience plan. And if the paradox were to be larger first, you did not include gender equality at all in the recovery and resilience plan after I warned you about it because it says in the European documents, you probably wouldn't listen to me if you had to do it in order to absorb the funds at all, you spilled gender equality all over the document. And what happens in practice is, in practice, the same thing that's been happening all these seven years. When it comes to gender equality, you don't need funds. You're cutting those assets. You showed Europe a smiling and progressive face, how you will take care of gender equality when the funds were to be withdrawn, and in Croatia you are subtracting these funds for the gender equality policy that I will repeat, let the whole of Croatia hear the shame you have not brought, and you should have been for 7 years now. Well, I'll figure it out. Why do you need even one kuna for gender equality? You'd best spend all your money on rolling stock because I see that item remains incomplete.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68738	You're looking for a vote. 3 The amendment to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing was submitted by a respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68739	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funding for the activities of housing management of victims of domestic violence is sufficient this year. Namely, the Central State Office of Reconstruction and Housing shall ensure and pay the costs of victims of domestic violence according to the established right of housing by the competent administrative authorities of the County. They're like 43 at the moment. Decisions, and housing costs include costs incurred in connection with the rental, and all overhead costs if victims of domestic violence are not located in buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the above activity is currently to 84.4%, noting that the funds for this activity are increasing by 95,000 kuna to the State budget and are sufficient for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68740	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68741	Well, I have to admit, it's a little strange that only 350,000 kuna is given for victims of domestic violence. Your explanation is rather strange that this year because of the long pandemic we have witnessed statistics that indicate an increase in domestic violence and then, of course, the need to care for victims of violence. The question is, how do these victims take care of themselves? Are these the appropriate conditions in which they take care? And surely the amount of 350,000 doesn't sound like it's some kind of sufficient amount. The increase of 95,000 kuna, which raises to 445,000 kuna, is indeed a slight increase, and somehow it seems to me that this actual item on the relation to last year should be significantly increased, not to say that women's associations have been warning for years that this amount is completely insufficient. At the same time, the amount should be subtracted from these aircraft, which I warn my colleagues and colleagues will spend a total of 999m euros. So this budget has already booked 2.4 billion kuna. We'll spend 7.4 billion kuna in total. It is such money that they are even with their own amount and influence, meaning the expenditures of the general government that are growing and this rebalance of the budget. The general government deficit that is growing and in this budget rebalancing means what I'm suggesting, and that's why I'm thinking of going through a few of these amendments that really these money from these planes is being re-designed for something more useful, at least at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68742	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68743	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68744	4. Amendment by the representative of Marija Selak Rasdić related to the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68745	The amendment is not accepted. As regards the proposed increase in the budget of the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society in the position of implementation of the EE Standard and further improvement of the electronic service system, it is stressed that the activity is financed from the European Union project and that due to the inability to complete the procurement in this financial year, there is no need to increase the funds in that position. As regards the proposed reduction of funds within division 020 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the argument is the same as for Amendment No. Two distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68746	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68747	Of course I don't accept that argument and I'm going to ask it to be voted on. I mean, I was just trying to help you. So I just need you to remind me of what happened with the census. I should remind you that you have found yourself in a situation that your last key day of electronic census has fallen and that citizens have failed to sign in, so you have not responded in time, because there was a weekend, and then you have to change the conditions more quickly later and decide who will accept it as being listed. Well, it's an unprecedented shame for this government. So, not only do you need an e-standard upgrade, you need an incentive to even set up an E-standard, because they're also based on the functioning of applications if we apply them in any way, and now here's the first time we've tried to be progressive, obviously they're not well set up. I'm not even going to mention where we're supposed to be today and we're not due to an insufficient E-standard. We would have taught the pandemic the most, if we really want to talk about democracy, today we should be in a position to be able to vote electronically. So we animate as many Croatian citizens as possible to engage in democratic processes, not as was the case these past years at this time of crisis and the danger of health that they must risk their lives by going to the polls. So maybe I'm wrong, the wrong point, you don't need an e-standard promotion, you need an E-standard, you need it in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68748	Are you asking for a vote? 5th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68749	The amendment is not accepted. Following actions taken by the Central State Office for Demography and Youth remaining for execution by the end of this year, and given that a little more than half of these funds have been spent so far, almost half of the funds planned in the budget have been planned for this activity in terms of prevention of violence against and among young people are sufficient to achieve the planned measures by 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68750	Dear representative Selak Rasdic. 5th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68751	The amendment is not accepted. Following actions taken by the Central State Office for Demography and Youth remaining for execution by the end of this year, and given that a little more than half of these funds have been spent so far, almost half of the funds planned in the budget have been planned for this activity in terms of prevention of violence against and among young people are sufficient to achieve the planned measures by 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68752	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68753	Yeah. So, of course I do not accept the argument and that I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, 30% of children in the Republic of Croatia are exposed to at least one form of violence among young people. Violence among young people was particularly growing during the pandemic, especially this virtual violence which in Croatia is not yet recognized as a problem. In this regard, I cannot believe that you cannot spend the resources you have to prevent and address the problem of violence among young people but you feel that these funds are unnecessary to you in that item. I'll just remind you of a few details. Studies show that most of those who have experienced violence among young people in the 4-8th grade are without consideration 71% of teachers. Almost 30% of children feel bad or good or bad at school, 12% feel safe in the city toilet, 8% of children are violent. So, should I say something? Of course we have to solve the problem of violence among young people, and I regret very much that you cannot recognise that item as a priority, instead of giving it extra funds, you are reducing them. It's all about the politics and priorities of this government. Of course I'm going to ask that amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68754	6th Amendment of the Representative of Mary Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68755	The amendment is not accepted. With regard to the budgetary position, prevention and reduction of food waste and food donations proposed to increase expenditure by 1 million kuna, we stress that... most of the activities covered by the Food Prevention and Reduction Plan are financed from European funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, one of the reform measures of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026 under the regular No. C15R4 improvement of the food donation system. The above measures plan to improve the food donation system as an important component of the circular economy in the agricultural and food sector. The EU funds for the implementation of the reform measure in question are planned to amount to 32 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68756	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68757	So in Croatia 400,000 tons of food is dropped annually. The food banks, for which you have even asked for feasibility studies, have been created by the University of Rijeka Faculty of Economics, for years you have been talking about them, persistently include them in all your plans, and you haven't done anything on their implementation, so you are, since when you created the Recovery and Resistance Plan, that it has served you more because of the lack of vision as one bag in which you will fill all the projects that have been unrealized so far, and there you have repeated the food banks. But everyone in their right mind will ask, if you haven't done them so far, how can we expect anything to change in the future? Yeah, now you swear you'll do it with European money. And what about the Croatian money that should solve the food waste problem? Am I to say that this pandemic has thrown a large number of our citizens, including our entrepreneurs, because of all the measures that were present, on the edge of poverty? Should I talk about inflation now being over 3% and inflation increasing from month to month? So these are all statistics that warn that an increasing number is hungry because of the invisible economic situation of our citizens. And in order to help them, the problem of food waste must be dealt with properly and help citizens so that those who have excess may donate their surplus to those who have a deficit. You made a plan to prevent and reduce the production of food waste from 2019 to 2022, and we are looking at the same thing again in the realization. You're reducing those items. So where's your consistency?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68758	Thank you. And we'll have to vote on that. 7th Amendment of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68759	The amendment is not accepted. The planned amount for EU funding projects is sufficient for the implementation of contractual commitments in 2021 based on co-financing of EU funds projects and there is no need for additional funding within this year. Furthermore, the proposed reduction of funds for project K260056 is not possible since the collateral is related to already created commitments and has been spent almost entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68760	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68761	Thank you very much. The project of reconstruction, revitalisation, fortification of the Old Town of Čakovec, which is the beneficiary of Međimurje County, includes the revitalisation and reconstruction of the largest cultural monument in Međimurje County, but also the most faithful monument of feudal heritage in Croatia. The old town of Zrinski in Čakovec has an immeasurable value and is a historical heritage in memory of the noble family Zrinski and Frankopani. The project was implemented by the Međimurje County initiative with EU funds and was reconstructed by the Old Town and opened and converted this year into a museum of immaterial heritage with all its accompanying contents. The project is worth 42 million kuna, which has been approved for 36 million kuna, but due to additional recoverys and construction interventions, 6 million must be provided. Since this is a national important project, please vote on the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68762	Thank you. The eighth amendment by Boška Ban Vlahek is for the Ministry of Science and Education, the respected State Secretary Stipe Mamić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68763	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's representatives, Amendment 8 is not accepted for the reason that the activities in question are financed exclusively by the most priority facilities which are at risk of the safety of pupils and employees in accordance with the opinion of the competent authorities, and the proposed funds are sufficient for the execution of the contract concluded by the Ministry of Science and Education. Also, a reduction is not accepted because the basis of the needs obtained by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is the basis for a second public call for the purchase of apartments for the purpose of accommodation of former tenants, the funds are necessary and will be spent by the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68764	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68765	Thank you. Nedelisce municipality is the largest municipality in Međimurje County and one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia. Students from this school are enroling her, enrolling in enrolment and school areas of several primary schools that are founded by Međimurje County. Most of them are educated in the municipality of Nedelisce. The building does not meet the standards and needs of the teaching process in any way, does not meet the requirements of the state pedagogical standard, and the facility itself does not have the possibility to upgrade or to upgrade the facility itself. Since the revitalisation of such large projects from local and regional budgets is not possible, and in accordance with the announcements of the Ministry of Science and Education that all available resources will be employed in the preparation of basic schools for the implementation of the full-day course, I ask that this amendment be voted on and co-financed in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68766	Thank you. The ninth amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68767	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the pre-school programmes cannot accept the proposed increase, as the rules on how to make State budget resources available and the criteria for co-financing of pre-school education programmes inter alia tax-provided amounts of money co-financed by the Ministry of Education of certain programmes. In accordance with that Regulation in the State budget, the funds necessary for the pedagogical year 2021 are already provided. We also note that this rebalancing proposal proposes that the reduced funds be used for co-financing of children with disabilities included in regular programmes and integration and specific programmes set up in kindergartens or educational institutions, and therefore the proposed increase for the same amount in heading A 578004 Preschool education and education of children with developmental difficulties of 2 million 518 thousand 822 kuna. On the other hand, the funds of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be reduced as already explained in Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68768	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68769	I was particularly impressed by this last sentence so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's resources could not be reduced. Someone naive would think that the government of the Republic of Croatia represents its citizens because we live in democracy, and then, in fact, we should not reduce the resources needed by these citizens to have a decent life in this democracy. When we talk about this item, it is that I asked for funds to be returned to raise and educate children in preschool institutions. This argument of yours that you gave part of the funds and that is one of the reasons for children with difficulties will prove to be a distortion of the truth in the later explanation of the other amendments that I have made to make these items known and increase, and you have also been saving on them. Because if, if you didn't, if you were saving on other items like that, then I don't see how you had to take those funds away here. Croatia is chronically lacking in the educator. She's missing now, the estimates are between two and three thousand educators in kindergartens. We have kindergartens that aren't according to pedagogical standards. And we live at the time of the pandemic where at least respecting the pedagogical standard is minimum conditions to reduce the spread of this infection. And then this government has some kind of ultimate policy, some kind of policy to prevent the spread of the pandemic, and it's got a bunch of kids in kindergartens. Well, couldn't you at least have politically thought and thought about it, since our capital mayor is just walking around Glasgow, thinking about solar roofs and other progressive green policies, while he's throwing moms out on the street to help him out a little bit, because he's missing his capacity, and now the kids are gonna pile up in kindergartens, so there won't be room for this one, and there won't be room for those who could get into last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68770	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote? 10th Amendment of Bosko Ban Vladek
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68771	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amount is sufficient to begin the implementation of the project of the Centre for Education and Education in Čakovec. The Ministry of Science and Education in cooperation with Centro and the founder of the Centre is working on the final preparation of the project documentation, the cost of works that are the basis for the launch of the procurement process. The funds for project K260056 are also already secured, are secured for already created liabilities and are almost spent in full.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68772	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68773	I thank you, indeed, for asking for the above-mentioned amendment of the vote, because it is simply unacceptable for me throughout this year to ask for amendments, initial means to launch for the Centre for Education, and then to open up this school where 150 students are currently being educated, the school was designed for 70 students. Since by rejecting this amendment and by promising, various officials came to the ceremony, came to my town of Čakovec, promised that the funds were secured, and you eventually removed and secured a miserable 1,500 kn for children with special needs and showed how much you really cared for those most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68774	11 amendment by the representative of Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68775	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that, in accordance with the annual decision, sufficient resources have been provided for the costs of transporting students with difficulties in the development of which it is adapted, tailored transport is necessary, as well as increased transport costs for escorts, co-financing of teaching resources, assistance and nutrition of students with developmental difficulties. For primary school students, a number is provided for 3,736 users, a diet for 923 users and a radioactive equipment for 3,585 users. For secondary school students, transport for 253 users and doactic equipment for 613 users amounting to 34 million kuna for primary school students is worth 3 million kuna for secondary school students, which totals 37 million 650 thousand kuna and I believe that these funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68776	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68777	You know that interurban student transport is one of the items that parents...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68778	Excuse me, I think you're referring to your 12th amendment, it's the 11th.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68779	You can tell which one it is. [[Intruder: Amendment No 11.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68780	Follow a little standard of students with special needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68781	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got it wrong, so it's that I asked to increase the funds in this item because it's precisely the transportation of students that we need to pay attention to and what we need to invest in because the item as such is an extremely difficult thing for all of our citizens and local community chiefs who can't invest in such items. If we're talking about carrying students I'll remind you that here the other day you had a case of a small place in Dalmatia Zagora, Runovica where almost 80 children, and you know what 80 children for such a small place can't reach their schools in Imotskia because the car driver is blackmailing the mayor of the municipality, and the municipality can't afford it because there's not enough resources, so that subsidy. So you can see how much trouble transportation money represents to our citizens, so it's also to our parents, and to those who need to provide it. If even before that case that ended in the media the other day seemed to you that you might have spent enough money on this item, you might now consider helping this small village in Dalmatinska Zagora, Runovici, to get those children to school. This way we will continue to have a decline in the birth rate and eviction of the Dalmatian Zagora and all other places in Croatia if we are not ready to set aside for such items that will enable our children to be educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68782	Are you asking for a vote? 12th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68783	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the calculation of the necessary means of public inter-urban transport for pupils is based on the criteria laid down in the Decision on the criteria and methods of financing the public transport costs of secondary school students for which the school year 2021/22 and the average monthly amounts of requests by Countys for the payment of co-financing, financing of secondary transport in the same school year. Given that there is a continuous decline in the number of students and that the decision was taken for the entire school year, the resources on activities are also not needed, because of the introduction of a pilot of the Croatian Railways project or free public transport of children and pupils of primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, which will be implemented from 1 October 2021 to 31 December 2022, and will be financed from the budget of the Ministry, sea, transport and infrastructure. In addition, the proposal cannot be accepted for a reason as a reduction of 29 million kuna to administration activities would lead to the inability to fulfil the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68784	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68785	I will repeat, the interurban transportation of students to school is one of the most burdensome items of the parents, and in the past we have already had serious problems especially in those places that have already been evicted and where we have a problem with the retention of the population, and then this infrastructure that should encourage them to remain in them shows that in practice it does not work. Because how will you explain to someone that you should live in a smaller place if his child who will be raised there cannot be provided with transportation to school. The other day you had a case in the Dalmatian village, in Dalmatinska Zagora in Runovici where 80 children are in an invisible position because the chief has no money, and the car carrier is blackmailing the chief about subsidising the work of the map so that students can arrive at school in Imotski. Who's going to help them? How to prevent eviction from the Dalmatian Mountain and not only the Dalmatian Zagora, but as a paradigm example, the eviction of a large part of Croatia and centralisation that brings us nothing good if we cannot provide sufficient resources for the interurban transportation of students. Since this problem is repeated year after year, and if you had a case of just one chief who calls the county and begs for help I will ask you to reconsider and to adopt this amendment and you will solve a specific problem, you will help 80 children in a small village in Dalmatia, while at the same time sending a strong message to the Croatian public about that wherever one of its citizens lives, there will be all the conditions that he needs to train his children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68786	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68787	I'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68788	13th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68789	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the programme of residential lending of employees in the system of science and higher education was completed on 30 June 2008 through the expiry of the prescribed annexes of the contract with the university and the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The amount of the planned assets is based on the average monthly amount of the 2021 invoices which are continuously reduced in accordance with the credit-party repayment plans of the beneficiaries of the subsidised loans and the planned funds are sufficient for the existing contractual commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68790	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68791	So I asked them to come back, or to raise interest on the apartments of scientific recruits and assistants. After those from today's perspective, we can say, the golden times when scientific money and assistants are, so the Croatian intelligence we must want to keep in our country. Is there interest that was at the level of the entire state 2% at that time much more favourable than for anyone else and which greatly made it easier for them to get to their first real estate, we're in one wild west today. What happens, for example, you had those if I didn't cheat 122 apartments for our recruits in Borovje, so they stared blank, they were even burglarized into them, etc. So you didn't know what to do with that property and now it's in the hands of the MUP. You had a policy at the level of the City of Zagreb, the famous Podbrežje where apartments were built for recruits in an unattractive location without respecting their needs that remained empty at all, and then when it was seen that none of the projects where someone well earned were awarded at the prize games in our read magazines. That your flats ended up at the prize games. It's a game policy for scientific recruits and assistants, a key piece that should be the engine of this country's development. We need a radical turn in the policy of retaining our educated scientific personnel and the first turn on that trail is to enable the acquisition of first real estate. Therefore, the fact that you will not respect this Amendment shows that you have not yet understood what is missing in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68792	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68793	That I will seek the above-mentioned Amendment's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68794	14. Amendment of MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68795	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Ministry of Science and Education provided in the school year 21/22 assistants in teaching, professional communications intermediaries for 4.583 students. It also provided funding from the European Social Fund through a project to provide teaching assistants and professional communications intermediaries to students with developmental difficulties, primary school and secondary education institutions. The 4th phase amounts to 171 million kunas slightly more and also from the lottery funds amounting to 24 million 882 thousand and 241 kuna, i.e. a total of more than 195 million kuna, and these funds are quite sufficient for the contracted and existing number of assistants in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68796	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68797	Thank you. Of course, I don't accept the explanation. What's this about? So the assistants in the class are key persons, so to integrate the student with the difficulties in development. So they're dealing with one of the most sensitive social groups in the country. Assistants have been working in schools for 10 years without an indefinite agreement. So, a standard, normal labor contract that would allow them to be cared for and deal with this most sensitive social group in the right way. Here I asked that, yes, I would say the openly miserable 13 million kunas be taken away, why the poor, because I asked to be taken away from the item of equipment by a multi-purpose battle plane, a rafala that would still be taken away from it by 13 million kunas, which would still be given 2.3 billion kuna. So really no funds compared to those reserved by this budget Rebalance. The assistants in the follow-up were initially reduced, hence the reduced amount compared to last year's budget, and even 13%. It is true that in the second Rebalanse budget you further reduced the funds by 10 million kuna and now it is, that you increased by 7 million kuna, but that is insignificant, meaning insignificant terms both to the first budget and to the budget of last year, and it is generally insufficient because of this because we can actually talk about the social group that deals with one of the most sensitive social groups that becomes a social group itself. Because teaching assistants work for salaries that are less than minimum wage. They're people who can't survive the moon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68798	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68799	So I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68800	15. Amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68801	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the funds intended are sufficient for the participation of national experts in the implementation working groups... the processes, working groups of the European Commission related to higher education and national working groups and events aimed at improving the Higher Education System and at national implementation of projects and initiatives. [[You don't understand.]] The Ministry implements several projects aimed at improving policies and practices in Higher Education, supporting learning and teaching, and developing teachers' competences in Higher Education, improving procedures, recognising foreign educational qualifications in Higher Education, digitising papers on completed studies and improving internal and external quality assurance processes in Higher Education. The ministry also participates in international projects and Euro-Student initiatives, the social dimension of Higher Education as well as in many other projects. At the moment, the Ministry of those projects and initiatives has ensured co-financing from the ERAZMUS Plus programme of 468,000 euros and more than 3.5 million kuna respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68802	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68803	The amendment is not accepted and I will ask that the above-mentioned amendment be voted on. In fact, you have just put education and higher education as one of the key strategic goals in your recovery and resilience plan. At the same time, we can monitor that the items for this in the budget are reduced. How can that go with each other? By listening to you, you'd think we had extra money in Higher Education, so we could easily give it up and re-design it for something else. Looking at the practice of higher education, following all the problems that it encounters by following up, I will repeat this pandemic situation that you may not yet have regained, so you have not adapted to it, responded to the challenges it has given us is clear that these are not items in which we can save. More than half of the students in Croatia reported difficulty with concentration due to this pandemic. Huge problems have arisen precisely in the education system and so on in the higher education system because teaching has become virtual world or on-line. And in such a situation, you tell us that the funds intended for the development of higher education are not needed and that you have provided enough money for Croatian science, and where we are within the EU at the level of investment in science tells all about your policy. It is not unusual to know that this key portfolio in the country in the previous term was given to a minor coalition partner to play with because he was obviously the least important to you, so you could trade with him. We need to agree at country level whether we want to educate the professional staff with the need of the European market or if we want to do something to make these people stay Here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68804	Are you asking for a vote? 16th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68805	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons why the State budget is planned in sufficient amount. Under this activity, funds are planned to cover the costs associated with the production, printing and equipment of doctoral dissertation of up to 3,500 kuna, which are demonstrated by the accounts of higher universities, universities and these funds for co-financing of tuition costs for public higher education staff, staff at the associate jobs of assistants, who are required to enrol and regularly attend postgraduate university studies or doctoral studies under the conditions prescribed in the Collective Agreement on Science and Higher Education. So it's about the basis of real costs and the question of high schools that we know the amount that is needed, not how much money we would like to provide for the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68806	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68807	It is an item for the purpose of scholarships and scholarships for doctoral studies. Now, I'm having a hard time polluting about this with you guys, and all you're talking about here is doctoral dissertation equipment, and I know very well what it is because I gave it up myself. However, the problem of scholarships and scholarships for doctoral studies is one of the key and unrecognized problems of higher education at the level of the Republic of Croatia. It is quite amazing that at a time of such rapid development where all countries as a strategic goal recognized the creation of highly educated, most educated staff in Croatia, we do not have developed scholarships and enough support and even at the level of dissertation equipment when we talk about doctoral studies. The simplified support for a doctor doesn't exist at all. If you're lucky enough to end up in a higher education system, then the state will fund your doctoral studies. I wasn't from the beginning, so I worked and paid for my first year of doctoral studies, 20,000 kuna. I worked for it. Who are you in Croatia can afford? Who's going to doctor in Croatia? To get people to Finland where they're free of charge? How is it possible that in Croatia we should not think at all about encouraging our students to doctor because only with such a staff can we achieve the economic growth we hope for and not allow prosperity will I be a much more modest, dignified life for our citizens who deserve it. So, for starters, not only should we finance dissertation because it's already at the end of the process of those who could even afford to be in a doctoral study. I'll ask him to vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68808	17th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68809	The amendment is not accepted because the project is an improvement of equal opportunities in education for students with development difficulties, a project financed from the European Economic Area, a financial mechanism for the period 2014-2020. The total amount of grants is slightly more than EUR 3 million and EUR 500 000 and cannot be increased as it is the same as the projections of '22. and 20 grant contracts. When planning the budget for '21. As well as the '22 projections. and '23. Carnet was led by the planned and envisaged dynamics of project activities and their realisation since the signing of the grant contract was ultimately implemented as of 1 July 2021, Carnet was in the planning of the necessary funds for '21. planned activities to be realized in '21. the year, which is predetermined by the project application and implementation plan. Given the proposed resources, they are sufficient for the implementation of all planned activities in 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68810	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68811	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. And here we are right now to what I was telling you about. So when you explained why you were moving and not giving money from other preschool items, then you said we needed it for children with developmental difficulties, that you had redeployed that money there. However, we are now coming up with amendments that apply to students with developmental difficulties, and you say you can save from that item and you don't need any more money. So we need to make a deal. Are we going to invest additional resources to help the most vulnerable social group, twice vulnerable because they are children, when it comes to children with developmental difficulties, or are we going to be able to save on that item? I think our message should be different here because democracy is always ahead of challenges, and at a time of technical improvement where a picture of a perfect man is increasingly being sent, at a time when some countries are praised for how they eliminated children with Down's syndrome in terms of being thrown before birth and not being born anymore, we need to further sensitize our public for children with developmental difficulties, and we can only do this by incorporating them into society, having equal opportunities to develop with all of our citizens, therefore, at this particular time, these are particularly challenging, images of the perfect man's last items we can save on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68812	The 18th Amendment of the Honored Representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68813	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the resources in the state budget for the programme financing of public higher schools are planned in sufficient amounts. The calculation of funding for public higher education programmes is based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Decision on the programme financing of public higher universities in the Republic of Croatia for the academic years '18/'19, ending in '21./'22. And we get into the last one, we get into the last year of funding. On the other hand, within the framework of the support programme for religious communities, funds are intended for the settlement of contractual obligations, which are provided under the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Economic Affairs, and part of the funds has already been spent on commitments, which is why it is not possible to reduce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68814	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68815	Thank you. I have to say, I'll start at the end. So why did I take in my amendment, so to speak, to the religious communities? You mentioned here, we are bound by Vatican contracts, I will remind the Croatian public that they are calcified because the data are very non-transparent, that about a billion kunas are therefore spent from the state budget on religious communities precisely because of this famous contract with the Vatican, which we, representatives of the Workers' Front, therefore, believe should be interrupted urgently, especially in these conditions. But why did I give these amendments to finance public schools, why? The funds provided for in the '21 budget. the year for funding science and higher education through programming contracts has already been launched by around 60 million kunas smaller than those foreseen by the Government's decision on programme financing of public schools in the Republic of Croatia in previous academic years, i.e. '18/'19, '19/'20, '20/'21, etc. The rebalancing did not fix this amount, so we remained at the same poor amount to finance science and higher education, especially through programming contracts. What is extremely important to say is that the funds for the item, meaning science and higher education, must be increased because we have to provide our students with education free of charge, and all of them in Croatia with free education, from kindergarten to PhD. I mentioned the amounts here, and I witnessed it myself, so I was still in the master's office, how much were the amounts then and how much are they today, how much are our students paying for PhDs today? So I'm gonna ask you to come on [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's an amendment to the vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68816	We are now going to the amendments addressed to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, family and social policy. 19th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic, please welcome State Secretary Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68817	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. At the division of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, family and social policy, social care, social assistance and compensation, the cost projection is based on monitoring of implementation according to activities at the position of the Ministry and the planned funds are sufficient to settle the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68818	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68819	Thank you. It's a very dorky answer. That's enough money, don't question it anymore, that's what it is. No, why are we even rebelling? Well, here, I'll try to describe to you briefly why. So in the past few years, Croatia has made continuous progress on the poverty and social exclusion chart. All the figures that we get from your side about the increase in employment, the huge increase in minimum wage, the average salary, we have the lowest in Europe and one and the other, fall into the water on these indicators. Indicators of social, poverty and social exclusion are the most important data to talk about the wealth of a country, and we are constantly growing on that scale from 7th to 8th place in 2019, and so we were in 10th place in 2017. What does it mean that our people are poor and socially excluded? This means that 6.6% cannot afford adequate heating in cold months. With current inflation, rising energy prices must be even worse. That 48.6% of people can't afford a week's vacation outside the apartment, that 7.9% of people can't afford a meat meal, fish, therefore, or vegetarian equivalent every other day. That 51.7% cannot afford unexpected financial expenditure, almost a million people are at risk of poverty. We're actually talking about the poor nation and the moment that we have the biggest epidemiological crisis in history, from the I.S. War, what are we doing? We mean for social care, we don't raise funds for social policies or we don't think we should raise the threshold for social benefits, so I'm going to ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68820	20th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68821	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of the implementation of national strategies and the improvement of professional work in the social care system in 2021 have not been spent in line with the Covid-19 epidemic, and therefore there is no need to increase financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68822	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68823	So, I don't know if I've heard correctly, because of the pandemic, you haven't been able to spend enough resources to improve your work in the social care system, so you decided to cut those funds, so I have to remind you that I'm even uncomfortable about it, the entire Croatian public and you here what happened to little girl Nicole. And what did this pandemic show us? I'll tell you the MUP statistics 81% is an increase in non-implementation of child protection and welfare, Article 173. The penal code, at the time of the pandemic, 30% increased child abuse for pornography, more than 50% of the body injury of children. That's the M.O.P. statistic for your pandemic. So the welfare system was stronger and more equipped than ever. What we find to be the tragic case of a girl, Nicole, is that he's been sub-optimed at all levels, missing workers, missing funds. And then happens to be missed, failures that unfortunately have a name and a last name. In the pandemic, everything has gone bad, an increase in violence by more than 40%, domestic violence, and you're telling me that the pandemic has prevented you from improving that same system. Then obviously, it's no surprise that these numbers are still growing. I think it's embarrassing what's been happening to us lately to save on an item like this. And incredibly politically incomprehensible That you didn't manage to spend that money. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68824	You're looking for a vote, so please say it then. 21st Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68825	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned to support financial needs for programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults are intended to meet the obligations of three-year programmes of persons with disabilities and associations acting in favour of persons with disabilities such as personal assistance services, visionary followers and sign language interpreters and are sufficient to settle the contractual commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68826	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68827	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. And now I'm going to tell you why I don't take it directly, and why I don't accept it in principle. In principle, I do not accept it because we need more proactive action than you have said on projects and approval of projects of those with developmental difficulties. In fact, you may have heard of Buba the one who runs children with Down syndrome, so this is Croatia that we need to create where projects can be developed that will enable children and adults with developmental difficulties to integrate into the labour market and participate actively in society. Therefore, at the principle level, this argument cannot be accepted because it refers to a narrow part of the understanding of what should be given to children and adults with developmental difficulties. And this broad part of the proactive part of that step I don't see with you. And precisely why I don't accept this explanation is because of the earthquake in Banovina and what happened to a number of organizations that lost their place of activity because they were damaged by the earthquake. These people are crying out for funds, and you told me here there's no need to give, as much as there's enough money to save on. Circumstances have changed. They suffered facilities where programmes for children with developmental difficulties were implemented, so they need to be provided with these money, not taken away for an item in which they were already intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68828	22nd Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68829	The amendment is not accepted, and the funds planned for activities aimed at improving the protection of victims of domestic violence are intended for the settlement of obligations under the three-year programme of associations providing counselling services and shelters for women and children victims of domestic violence and are sufficient for the settlement of contractual commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68830	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68831	Of course I do not accept the argument and that I will ask that this amendment be voted on. So, apart from the fact that Croatia is missing safe houses, which you and I both know very well, we had an increase in domestic violence in the pandemic by more than 40%. With this inherited unresolved problem, we have come to a situation where we need additional capacity because we now have a specific epidemiological situation where we need to find ways to isolate individual victims of violence because they may be able to transmit or are infected with the coronary virus. The dramatic increase in domestic violence and the epidemiological situation which has obviously helped you not to hold back enough, not just to increase because you are not ready, but to keep the funds you intended for that item. I don't see a higher priority in this country than protecting victims of violence. I can't believe you don't know what to do with that money and you haven't been able to spend it. You want me to list a few things so you don't say I'm not constructive? Ensure new opportunities for reporting domestic violence. Secure the family violence experts at our headquarters. Ensure regular tours of the earthquake affected areas because there is more domestic violence there than in the rest of Croatia. And, of course, provide professional staff and capacity to take care of the people affected by this tragedy. And don't tell the Croatian public here that you have, and the figures deny you Excess money for that purpose. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68832	23. Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68833	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the Ministry of Labour, pension system, family and social policy in respect of accommodation in the foster family shall provide provision for users of accommodation in foster families and remuneration for personal expenses and accommodation. The projection of expenditure of EUR 176 million on the item of the Ministry of Accommodation fee in the foster family is based on the monitoring of the provision of accommodation services in foster families.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68834	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68835	We are coming up with another major problem that is of insufficient social importance to this, and even with the symbolic return of money for the item by giving additional money to that item, I wanted to support the foster families together, so I cannot accept your argument and I will ask that the above-mentioned Amendment be voted on. In fact, there are currently about 202,000 children in the foster family system. Household families, and you are reportedly changing the laws, face a number of problems that prevent them from taking better care of these children, such as maternity leave can be taken exclusively without compensation. We have an exceptional problem with missing young foster parents, so people are not at all sensitive to the problem of foster care. The average foster age is over 55 years. You know, as I know, as the entire Croatian public knows that we lack a large number of foster families, not only do we miss them but that number is in constant decline. In such a situation that we can save on that item, and I told you in particular what they need money for, we know that not only do we lack a foster parent, but we lack young foster parents, and I don't have to point out what it would mean for these children that if I can't already have my own family that I can have something close to having something well organized and financially helped to feel safe and protected in such an environment. In fact, I cannot accept that you cannot single out that item and I will therefore ask that the above-mentioned Amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68836	24. Amendment of MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68837	The amendment is not accepted. The obligation to pay the beneficiaries of the pensions concerned stems from the Law on invalidity and pension insurance, which was in force until 31 December 1998 and the Pension Insurance Act, and, accordingly, the funds planned within the division of the ministry are planned. According to those rules adopted in accordance with the principle of rights acquired, the use of pensions made according to previous pension insurance regulations and compliance with the applicable Pension Insurance Act shall be ensured. According to Art. 155 The Pension Insurance Act shall be provided for part of the pension obtained or determined under more favourable conditions under specific rules, i.e. partly financed from the State budget, while the rest of the pension resulting from its work contribution shall be financed from the contribution to pension insurance by the pensioner himself who pays out of pension insurance on the basis of pension insurance until the conditions for pension are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68838	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68839	Thank you. In other words, you told me this is by law, we have to pay our pensions. Well, that's the problem, the problem is that there is a law that allowed pensions to be paid, so I will warn our Croatian public, the natives, the Ustashas, the NDH armory, their average pension is 2,300 kuna, and now we have an item in the Budget of about 23 million kuna, which almost equivalent to the payout items of the worker's search, so in the employer's bankruptcy process. Here today, colleagues and colleagues of the Shipyard Institute are going into bankruptcy, highly educated when they will be in a job search situation at the moment when a lot of companies have closed their doors in the crown, we did not think that this item of insurance of labour claims should be increased, but we already think that there is a need to pay off such pensions. What's popular in these amendments is taken I don't know from the government or from the government's rolling stock, but let's take away from things that are completely unacceptable in the civilized world today, meaning historical auditism throughout this whole meaning the budget is going through a series of these items and it takes away quite a bit of money that is not acceptable from some civilizational perspectives at all, so I would warn that we look at the NDH documentary Hrvoj Klasic if we don't know what kind of units are doing and why these people would get a pension or their successors. It is unacceptable, therefore, that this Budget did not mean workers at all and therefore did not increase that item, therefore this item is even reduced because it reduces the amount of insurance of workers' claims in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy and the least we can do is to... ask for the amendment to be voted. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, ask for a vote]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68840	Now we're going to the amendments to the Department of Health. 25. Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68841	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs, the amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health shall co-finance the monitoring of the study of environmental factors in Slavonska Brod, in accordance with the proposal of the Institute of Public Health of the Brod Posavina County, there is no need for additional sources of funding in 2021, which refers to the monitoring of the impact study of environmental factors on human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68842	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68843	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that the above-mentioned amendment be voted on. Yes, the people of Slavonski Brod. So I guess at the time of this pandemic, the air has cleared up, maybe a little easier to breathe. If that's not the case, and we all know that something like this can't happen and how long this problem has been burdening the people of Slavonski Brod, I don't see how these money can be enough for you, how you can save on it, and in fact the reality is different. You have insufficient resources and insufficient will to address this problem at the level of the entire government, not just the Ministry of Health in the long run. The people of Slavonski Brod are in a particularly inscrutable situation and at a much greater risk of health than all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I will remind you that the life span in the Republic of Croatia compared to the rest of Europe is shorter by about 3 years. That we are at the death rate of malignant diseases among the five worst countries within the EU. And how do we fix this devastating statistics when what has a very long-term impact on our citizens' health this ecocid and health disaster that is happening in Slavonski Brod is not funding with an additional source of money, or you say in that item that you are saving, and we are not showing any willingness to solve this problem in the long term at the level of the entire government and that these citizens are not part of it, and they certainly contribute more unfortunately than the rest of Croatia's defeating statistics on the reduction of the life span of malignancies in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you, are you looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68844	26th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68845	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. On the basis of data collected from all health institutions, the Ministry of Health carried out an analysis of the necessary funds to pay the pay gap for overtime work in 2021. In accordance with the government's decision, the Ministry of Health will in the first step return the funds to a health care institution on the basis of all vested judicial decisions, which we have provided sufficient resources in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68846	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68847	Yes, I must admit that I find it fascinating that the Ministry of Health doesn't think it should provide additional funds to pay overtime workers. Here, I vaccinated three times on Velesaj the other day, the doctor who vaccinated me fell off my feet, told me that in the morning she works in her practice, in the afternoon she comes to Velesaj, that she is doing more than allowed, by law allowed by overtime, and then she is paid for these overtime hours but only what the law allows, and therefore only in the amount that counts on the percentage of that amount means some basic pay. For the most part, we all know that workers in respiratory centres, health workers involved in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic are fully underpaid and they need to be provided with accessories. In all other European countries, such additions are secured. In France, on average EUR 183 per worker, in Estonia double salaries to all healthcare professionals, in Slovenia 200% salary allowance, in Scotland 500 euros per salary, with us healthcare professionals working practically under regular conditions. That's unacceptable. So with this amendment, I wanted to at least make sure that this, uh, overtime was paid. Overtime today means first of all they pay the health care workers miserablely, and Covid’s supplement health care workers commented that they were ashamed of how much they received means of pay. It's about a hundredths, not more than 200 kunas that aren't even equivalent to that. What we've proposed is the same if there's no money, and here's when we've combed a little bit of that budget, it seems there's still some money that could be set aside, but let's say there's no money, then we've proposed an unfettered work experience, but you've also refused us that, so here's why I insist that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68848	27th Amendment of Mary Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68849	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The resources in place are used to finance medicines on the list of HZZO medicines. These funds represent interventions to which the Ministry of Health may act in exceptional situations for the purpose of enabling normal supply of medicinal products not yet included in the list of HZZO medicinal products. Since all the interventions were up until the end of '21. the year of implementation by the Ministry of Health has proposed a reduction of the amount to that activity, therefore that amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68850	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68851	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, it may have remained unclear in which way I asked to be rebalanced here. So, all these amendments that I've given here, and I've been going through the budget rebalance in detail, they've been referring to what I've detected as the key problems in our society, and I can identify them and offer an explanation of why this contribution is needed. From the welfare system, protection of women from violence, health care systems, higher education systems. The items from which I have taken in my proposed amendments are items of reconstruction of the rolling stock. And the items I asked for the money to be allocated are not items where I thought a hand and a hat should improve the proposed funds in the budget rather than where you cut the funds. And here you have reduced the supply of medicines that are not on the list of HZZO medicines. The case of the girl Nora, the case of the girl Mile, has shown us that when it comes to experimental treatment and new medicines that are not on the list, our citizens must be able to manage to raise humanitarian actions and that our citizens are helping each other instead of the Ministry of Health to the extent that this burden can be taken over because we all pay for health insurance. They've been left at the mercy of our good will, and you're telling me it's more important to rebuild the Ministry of the Sea's fleet than return half a million kuna for that item. [[Intruder: Thank you, are you looking for a vote?]] I'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68852	28th Amendment of Representative Mira Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68853	Thank you very much. The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form, so that it is now read in accordance with Article. 38 Budget law, in the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and '23. g in the specific section under division 0,96 of the Ministry of Health, the 3602 programme of investments in health infrastructure, the new position of General Hospital Bjelovar, source of funding 11, general income and receipts, group 36 of aid given abroad and within the general budget, is added, sub-group 366 of assistance to other budget budgets of 2 million kuna. In the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023 in the special section under division 0,96 of the Ministry of Health, on the capital project K-618212 of emergency intervention on buildings and equipment, sub-group 366 of assistance to budgetary users of other budgets is reduced by one million kuna in 2021, and to the activities of the A-618207 Administration and Management, sub-group 323, expenditure on services for a million and 55 thousand kuna in 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68854	Dear Representative Totgergeli, do you accept this amended amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68855	Thank you, Vice President. I accept the modified form of the amendment and accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68856	Okay. It becomes an integral part of it then. 29th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68857	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In line with the proposed reform measures, the Ministry of Health draws particular attention to the activities and actions of revitalisation of the production of the Immunological Institute. Since the construction of a new factory is under way, the proposed amount of HRK 60 million will not be realised in '21. This amendment is therefore not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68858	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68859	Thank you. In other words, here, we got the exclusive that the immunological announcement of the Immunological and Reconstruction of the Immunological is not going to be carried out next year. I would just warn that it is said here, so when it is stated and Minister Beroš in the media boasts that we will have the restoration of the Immunological, which I absolutely welcome, to understand, I think it is a great decision because I think it is absolutely necessary to oppose these huge debts in the health system that are accumulated in a way that pharmaceutical companies sell overpriced drugs to Croatia and then the debt grows and then the poor pharmacists, whether, must be paid, they can no longer live. Which the company can endure with such debts for years, if our entrepreneurs stay in such debts, someone doesn't pay them, puts the key in the lock, but pharmaceutical companies maintain their existence regardless of the huge debts they keep talking about and complaining about. So the Immunological Institute as a top institute could put an end to it, we've been producing meanings and means very important medicines that have come out of that office. But here, as I was about to say, it means this amendment aid, it really means helping you run immunologically because these, this amount that's set up here, is already suggested that the Immunological Institute introduced itself into this budget purely political and PR-ovski, and that it didn't actually mean to implement anything concerning the immunological. The proposal means the state budget is proposed amounting to 65 million, compared to the '20s. Mr. slight 19% increase, now the budget rebalance is further reduced by 20 million kuna, etc., so that's where nothing really was going to be done, I'm going to ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68860	The 30th Amendment of MP Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68861	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that the position of public health protection against infectious diseases concerns the financing of the problem of mosquito disinfection of Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. Since, in accordance with the requirements of the County, it is necessary to ensure a maximum of 2 580 000 kuna, that amount is planned in the national budget and therefore the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68862	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68863	I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68864	And now we're going to the 31st Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasdic, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68865	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The general provision of a larger amount of budgetary resources for the protection, monitoring and promotion of children's rights is certainly considered important and acceptable in view of the activities that the Office plans to carry out by the end of this year, and the budget therefore relates to 2021 in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman for Children and in accordance with the Strategic Plan of the Advocates for Children for the period '20-'22. The planned financial resources for 2021 are sufficient for the Office's operations by the end of the year and for the achievement of the work programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68866	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68867	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. So I'm going to say it again, this pandemic has changed the circumstances we're in, and the fact that you're saving on these items shows that you haven't adapted in time to new circumstances. What's going on? The non-implementation of a decision to protect child's well-being has increased by an incredible 81%, the exploitation of children for pornography 30% of children has difficulty with concentration, 2.4% had suicidal thoughts, the increase in suicides in different age groups was more than 50%, 171%) increased sexual harassment of children from 14 to 18 years of age, systematically during this year I followed and prayed to the MUP statistics concerning crimes against the harm of children to see how the pandemic affected the protection of our children. It has affected very badly and in such a situation that it can be saved on those institutions that should take care of the protection of our children in light of the new circumstances that changed the conditions in which we live, it is like someone who is trying to be responsible for the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, so in light of this information that I have brought to you here to ask that this amendment be voted on. You never know, I might convince one of the HDZs and we'll manage to vote at least one of these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68868	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.07 HOURS]] The first point of the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. In addition to the proposal for amendments and additions of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2021 and projection of plans for 2022 and 2023 are submitted, with an explanation for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, the Centre for restructuring and sale, the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, HZZ, Croatian highways, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. The promoter is the government, the debate is closed, the review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, now we will go to the amendments with requests for a break, first order of business colleague Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68869	Thank you. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club in order to try to explain once again to our colleagues from the position that the vote for such rebalancing, voting and the capitulation of this government is ahead of the challenge of the reconstruction of both Zagreb and the surrounding areas, but also of Banija. I repeat that this rebalancing found that from the initial of more than 800 million kunas that were intended for the rebalancing period in the 6th month down to 600 and something, the amounts for reconstruction fell to 80 million and less than 80 million, respectively. So we came to 10% of the amount that was planned because it failed to organise either the reconstruction of Zagreb or the restoration of Banija and it is the biggest crime of this government. Because it's not a crime to us from the opposition, it's not a crime to the budget, it's not a crime to financial management, it's a crime to people who are going to spend another winter in containers. Who not only will spend the second winter in containers in order but also have no perspective when their houses, their apartments, buildings, schools, kindergartens will be restored. In addition to this rebalancing, the Energy Efficiency Fund is allowed to have a surplus and transfer it over the next year, an excess of half a billion kuna. When those half a billion kunas could have been invested in the energy recovery of those buildings that also died in the earthquake. So this rebalance and voice for this rebalance vote is for capitulation. The government's capitalization ahead of the challenge of restoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68870	The apartment is approved. Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68871	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front in, of 10 minutes to warn therefore colleagues and colleagues that the budget rebalance in the year we have the biggest epidemic crisis since World War I when more than 9000 people died from Covid, when health workers fall off their feet, when the health system breaks down which increases in its rebalancing, the item for fighter planes. So 2.4 billion kunas will be allocated annually to Rafael's fighter planes. In total, we'll single out a billion Euros for Rafael's fighter planes, it looks like there's nothing without a plane in the year when the recovery didn't start, when we have the biggest pandemic crisis, the epidemic crisis since World War I. So, the other day, I was vaccinated with a vaccine, a third dose on Velesim, a doctor who had me vaccinated from my feet, said that in the mornings she was doing her regular practice, in the afternoons of the Velesim vaccine, they were paid overtime just as much as they were allowed by law, and they were doing more than they were allowed by law because they stayed there to help in this crisis. These people won't pay for it. I asked the amendments to the overtime, the item for overtime in the healthcare system means for overtime for healthcare professionals to increase my responsibility that there is no need. We've been looking for an unfettered internship along the way, and it's been said there's no money. It means the way we're going to do these people's fees. We don't have the money for the Covid supplement, we don't have the need. Supposedly for overtime... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68872	Thank you very much. The break is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68873	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this budget rebalance represents a kind of capitulation. The government of the Republic of Croatia's capitalisation, the capitulation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the capitulation of the finance minister. Why? Because he let the expenses go beyond control. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the beginning of the year, we have been constantly pumping additional funds into health care, billions, without the quality of health services growing. The quality of treatment has not improved, the quality of the fight against the crown crisis has not improved, but nothing has improved, and the citizens will pay dearly. No reform of the health system has been made, but some reforms have. This reduces the money for reconstruction because the government is unable to organise that recovery is being implemented and the money is being reduced to co-finance funds or to co-finance the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. Which is not surprising because the Director of the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency is in the investigative prison because he has caved under political pressure from HDZ and has allowed, instead of the profession, the withdrawal of funds from EU funds to the friendly, family and all other ties between members and members of the HDZ presidency. And it's scandalous, it's totally unacceptable, and it shows how the budget and budget rebalancing in this country is tailored. That is why we from the SDP and are launching an initiative to establish an investigative commission that should be checked by the SAFU jacket, but we are also asking all of us here, should the European Public Prosecutor's Office really be established to start investigating corruption affairs in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68874	The apartment is approved. Now a colleague named Bacic has come forward, and so is the reason for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68875	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break so that we can send a message to the Croatian public as well as to the Croatian public that the rebalancing of the state budget reflects the economic and financial policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After an unremembered crisis that struck Croatia and the world, Croatia took place in 2021. Thanks to the government's work, the ruling majority's work is returning with GDP growth to 9% and this is exactly what the RS budget confirms. Furthermore, according to the European Commission's estimates yesterday, an assessment of the growth of the Croatian economy was raised, raised this year to 8.4%, placing the Republic of Croatia among the 3 most successful countries among the EU Member States in 2021. This made it clear that Croatia has found the right way and balance between protecting the health of our citizens and the other side of the Croatian economy. Through numerous measures, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been encouraged 720,000 support, thus providing and preserving jobs, and 120,000 Croatian employers have remained liquid thanks to the government's measures and have been able to carry out their business activities. Therefore, this particular rebalancing is the best indicator of how right we have been in this crisis and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this ruling majority of what I want specifically highlighted has shown how and how it is sailing through this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68876	It's going to be approved for this break, and someone's been screaming, torturing, I didn't quite understand what the poet was going to say, but we're going to move on, so we're going to go with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68877	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. At a time when Croatia is approaching almost 10,000 deaths, while at the same time one Denmark that has almost 2 million more inhabitants than Croatia has not even 3,000 dead, and in the course of the pandemic, until there were no vaccines last year, there were not even 30 deaths per day. You're telling us that you found the right balance in protecting our citizens' health. Don't insult us all together, please. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68878	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasudiæ, you are being warned, this was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68879	In 238, it means disdaining MPs, and I would refer to another part of what was said. So the most successful country in Europe is the country called Croatia. It's a country that has more than 17% of the population, a working-age evicted population, which has minimum wages, minimum wage, and then boast that you've incredibly improved the average and minimum wage share in average salary. The share of nothing in anything is really big. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Peović...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u68880	...you get a warning too. Of course this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, I will apply to Art. 293.b. and we will move on, so we will now move on to the amendments, and they have been submitted by Boška Ban Vlahek, representative Damir Bajs, representative Katarina Peović, representative Marija Selak Rasdić and representative Miro Totgergeli. We held the statement earlier at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first in line is the amendment of MP Katarina Peovic. The government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Maria's 2nd representative, Selak Rapudic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3. Representatives Katarina Peovic are not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment b. 4. Representatives of Maria Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5. The government does not accept the same MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Six of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7 representatives of Bosko Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Eight of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. The 9 MPs of Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Ten representatives of Bosko Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11 Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 12 of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 13 of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 14 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 15 representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 16 of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 17 of the same MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 18 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 19 of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 20 representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. The 21st representative of Maria Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 22 of the same MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 23 of the same MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 24 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 25 Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 26 to MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 27 of Maria Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 28th Amendment of the Representatives of Mira Totgergelia was adopted by the Government in a modified form by which the applicant agreed and became an integral part of the budget rebalancing in a modified form. Amendment 29 by parliamentarian Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Everything okay? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 30, MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last 31st amendment by attorney Maria Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to vote on the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the state budget require most of all MPs, so 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 and the projection for the year 2022 and 2023. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were in favour, and 50 were against it by bringing amendments and additions to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being passed on to vote on decisions to give consent to the proposals and additions of the financial plans of extra budget users for 2021 and the projection of the 2022 and 2023 plans, if you agree, I suggest that we unite the vote on all 9 proposals, I will only read them of course. First decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2021 and projections for '22. and '23, Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2021 and projection for '22. and in '23, decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Restructuring and Sales Centre for 2021 and projection for '22. and 23rd year, fourth decision on granting consent to amend and supplement the financial plan of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency for 2021 and projection for '22. and '23. the fifth Decision on the granting of consent for the amendments and addition of the Fund's financial plan for the protection of the environment and energy efficiency for 2021 and the '22 projection. and '23. the sixth Decision on the granting of consent for the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the HZZO for 2021 and the projection for the '22s. and '23. Year, 7th Decision on granting consent for amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2021 and projection for '22. and '23. Year 8, Decision on granting consent for amendments and additions to the financial plan of HZ Travel Transport for 2021 and projection for '22. and '23. the year and the ninth Decision on the granting of consent for the amendments and addition of the financial plan of the HH Infrastructure for 2021 and the projection for '22. and '23. A year. I am now voting on that decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 50 against, have voted again, so we've made all nine proposed decisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion that reads. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised, together with the representatives of the proposers, to conduct a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and to the decision on changes and additions to the financial plans of the Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Croatian Motorways,.... /. HZ passenger transport, HZ infrastructure before their publication in the National Journal. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 108 MPs and MPs voted, 103 for and 5 was against the conclusion in the text as proposed by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u69376	We will now declare on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, second reading, P.Z. No. 202, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the president of the motion to be shown about the amendment submitted, the re-respected Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u69377	Thank you very much, Vice President. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives under No. 202.1 as nomotechnically accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u69378	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. That concludes our statement on the amendments
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u69379	Final draft law amending and supplementing the act on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, second reading, P.Z. No. 202, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During a statement on the amendment submitted, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's national budget for 2021. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 128 MPs, 77 for, 51 against so that the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's state budget for 2021 was passed. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2021, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate concluded. In line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2021. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for and 50 against, and a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's first half budget for 2021 was adopted. In accordance with the provisions of Art. 111. The law on the budget, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly and now we have those 9 decisions again, so I propose that we vote together on them as well. Therefore, these are decisions on granting consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan, the decision to give consent to the Half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters' financial plan, the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads' financial plan, the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the fifth, the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the HOOD financial plan, the sixth, the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, the seventh, the decision to give consent to the half-year report on the implementation of the financial plan of HZ infrastructure, the eighth, the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the financial plan for the implementation of the Croatian Transport of the Croatian Road of the Croatian Road, the Croatian Road, the Croatian Road and the Croatian Road. I am voting on all nine of those decisions. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted and again 77 for, 50 against, and thus all the proposed decisions were made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70696	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, as we announced yesterday, we are moving forward with a statement on the amendments. Please be quiet, please. We are starting with a statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 148. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was filed by the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70697	Thank you very much, Vice President. Therefore, the amendment of the Social Democrats Club to Article 10 of the final proposal relating to Article 410 and Article 11 of the final proposal relating to Article 410a. The amendment is not accepted for a reason it has been assessed that it is not justified to prescribe different customer rights depending on when the material deficiency appears. It is pointed out in recital 19 of the Directive of 2019. 771 refers to consumers while the new paragraph 6 is proposed. Article 410 includes all customers regardless of whether they are consumer contracts, commercial contracts or civil contracts. Therefore, the reasons given for the amendment are not acceptable because it is not clear why those rules would apply to non-consumptive contracts, or why consumer contracts would even trade contracts, contracts between economic operators, in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70698	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70699	My dear secretary, I'm sorry you didn't accept that amendment, but it's been a few weeks since we've talked here about customer protection, and we've talked about how we should sort of characterize the goods, that we should define the exact characteristics of the goods, that we should react if something is wrong. In this case, our customer, our consumer, has no way of responding. It just can't fix one mistake in some real time frame. We said inside we should first define the correct time limit, which would be up to us for a maximum of 7 days, and secondly, if that goods were broken within 30 days, that the goods could be returned. What's he need after six months? You didn't even try to define some real deadline inside, you just wrote within a reasonable time frame. This reasonable time limit can be 20 days and 100 days and 200 days. What will our consumers do? And we have a chance, the directive has given us a chance to define ourselves and to protect our customers and our consumers. I'm sorry, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70700	You're looking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70701	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, second reading, P.Z. No. 148. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Social Democrats' Club, which the government did not accept, so we will vote on an amendment the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 115 MPs and MPs, 36, this thing, uh, excuse me, this amendment was, so the amendment was not accepted, it did not get enough votes, so I am voting on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were for, 33 were abstentions and 13 were against, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations was passed. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 207. The promoter is the government, the debate is closed, and before I give the vote, we have one request for a break, a colleague of Oreskovic, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70823	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Center and Voice Club for 10 minutes for consultation. In fact, after the Law on Courts, we will also be voting on a proposal for a law relating to the State's Attorney's Office. It is a total of four laws, which together in the package must represent what the ruling view as judicial reform. Although it is only about the first reading of this bill that should be rejected, it would be a shame to accept them, not only because they were designed by a political party who was legally convicted of corruption but because this has indeed become a question of legislative and institutional hygiene. Dear representatives of these laws we vote all day after the arrest of another one in a series of HDZ-run megacorruption stars whose work and activities have not seen anything controversial. These bill proposals do not strengthen the independence of our judiciary, but rather weaken them further, if nothing else, because the Minister of Justice will give the opportunity to hold the unsuspecting judges by means of information he will receive from SOA. So instead of adopting these laws, I think it's high time we start thinking about how we're going to make serious reconstructions of our institutions and how we're going to reform the judiciary once we get HDZ out of power. And this reform of the judiciary should go towards strengthening the system of control and verification of property cards and changes in the composition of the State Judicial and State Attorney's Council in which membership should no longer be a place for 2 members of parliamentarians, and members of those bodies should be professionalised in their work so that their work and the conduct of the proceedings can produce adequate results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70824	The apartment is approved. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Habian, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70825	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, for his injury to Article 238, for the sake of the public, and I think that a colleague as a lawyer should know, so the European public prosecutor, especially the delegated public prosecutor, is an integral part of the national legislation, he is integrated into the USKOK system, which we discussed last year in this Croatian Parliament. You've also discussed it and voted and I'm surprised by your ignorance about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u70826	This was a replica, you're aware of it, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. We're going to vote now. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 124 MPs and MPs 77 for, 34 abstentions and 13 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71031	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to point out once again the alarming scales of corruption in our country, all under the high patronage of the ruling party. This week, we first witnessed a series of arrests on the orders of the European Prosecutor's Office. Former Minister Zalac, a longtime close associate of Prime Minister Plenkovic and members, is arrested, a current HDZ presidency member, as well as a key SAFU figure. Despite extensive evidence, the prime minister instead of condemning corruption and immediately removing the minister from his party as well as the head of the agency, he acts as a surprise, praises his minister for never demonstrating expertise or results and calls for a presumption of innocence. Imagine that courage and narcissism. In politics, everyone should strive towards far more stringent standards than the presummation of innocence. And let's not say that it's high time we started using more complex concepts like morals or ethics. Instead, I would like to share with you the fact that even according to the latest report by an independent and politically controlled DORH, the percentage of convictions in criminal proceedings is 91.54%. So it's a very thin and fragile stick of presummation that the prime minister himself is courageously relying on. By our own inaction, we have come to the conclusion that the European Prosecutor's Office must make us justice because we ourselves cannot do it or we simply do not want to. Insisting on the presumption of innocence, and that is no less than the leaders of the body who are responsible for deciding on all those vast billions of EUR and kuna that will reach us from the EU, Plenkovic has turned us all back together into hostages of his organization. Only criminal organizations defend their members regardless of the consequences. And in order for HDZ to be called a criminal organisation, they should first have a powerful verdict that even they did not complain about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71032	Your colleagues, Nikolic, are coming out of the frame of acceptable speech. A criminal organization is an unacceptable term you know very well, and if you've been listening to legal experts you know for yourself that you've gone too far, but well, that's your right. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Katicic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71033	President-in-Office of Parliament, the violation of Rules of Procedure 238, because in this presentation, the request for a break has shown some false or neglected and not all facts that are relevant and which are accurate and proven and through both the media and through all others are listed. Namely, the integrated European Prosecutor's Office, the first case he put against the SDP's head of the municipality of Velika... The city of Nova Gradiška and that's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71034	Thank you, colleague Katicic. This was also a replica, so you get a warning. Now we're going with another request for a break, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71035	I'm looking for a break of at least 10 minutes on behalf of the MOST Club because we're the Honorable President of the Parliament, we're confused. Namely, you have confused us, you are probably ours on the pages of the Croatian language portal that word, but it is not unusual for me because yesterday, as you explained at the Defence Council session, your cell phone found you. A pretty active cell phone that can find someone instead of him using it. So, I'm gonna go back to this confusion of ours. We are confused because we are currently discussing cosmetic changes concerning the work of the State's Attorney's Office, simplified, while the village burns, did comb. Yes, that's our basic problem, I won't repeat everything my colleagues have said about the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the fact that two years did not bring a plea when we talk about Minister Žalac and her affairs, but I will look back on what comes from the ranks of my colleagues from HDZ, so I'm going to ask the question that we haven't integrated the European Public Prosecutor into the work of our attorney's office, would we ever have a chance to discuss the affairs of Minister Žalac? I think the answer is clear to everyone, but the message I'm gonna send here isn't a message from the mourner. As an opposition, we have certain resources to question the work of the State's Attorney's Office and we took matters into our own hands at the MOST Club, so we have gathered more than enough signatures from the ranks and it is my pleasure to announce today that after this brief break in which you should not relax, Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek will come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament and will have to give us answers to questions not only about this affair It's about the Semen cableman and everyone else. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71036	Thank you very much, colleague Rasdic. I'm sorry you don't understand the joke, I noticed, you're always very serious, but it's your right. I sometimes make a joke, so please accept it as part of my personality. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but before you are colleagues Bacic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71037	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Selak Rasudić, has been injured by an article. 238, he disrespects the MPs. Mrs. Selak Rasdic, that the government and HDZ wanted to hide behind the state's attorney's office and not process it like this and support the processing of these... Cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We did not have to establish in Croatia the European Public Prosecutor's Office because, as you know, 5 Member States did not do so, therefore, in order to process and show that we care about a zero tolerance rate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71038	My friend, thank you very much, you're getting a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But now we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, this time colleague Selak Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71039	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. I was shopping yesterday, and I can't find hot pajamas anywhere. I don't know what happened, it's not Christmas yet, and it's close to gifts, and I hope that the colleagues of the HDZ have supplied themselves and would like to tell you the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament that what you just said to me was very funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71040	I don't know what I'd tell you about warm pajamas or this other one right now, but I have to give you a warning, anyway. I'm not happy that I have to give warnings all the time, but as far as I can, that's the Rules of Procedure. Third request for a break, colleague Bartulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71041	Thank you. I'm looking on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club for a break. Perhaps the most common flossule we hear in public is "let the institutions do their job", the Croatian people have been listening to it for too long and we see in fact that these institutions are made by people who are either responsible or irresponsible in their workplace. I don't think there's any doubt that the State's Attorney's Office also belongs to the category of institutions they've scheduled, and that's one tendency that lasts too long. I've said multiple times that it's hard to change habits, so this last case shows that the attacks that exist in the public administration that abuse of power is too much. So, apparently former Minister Žalac is one of the biggest experts in the European funds for the use of the fund, it looks like she's passed the exam, we'll see what a court epilogue will be, but I'm not talking here in any way demagogue or populist, but this just takes too long. The pattern of behaviour of ruling as if in some parallel world is inadmissible, simply it is intolerable and the way Prime Minister Plenkovic defends himself is actually below each level. Citizens rightly go to many cities calmly in the evening because in this new phase Croatia enters the fight against the pandemic, people lose their jobs, people lose their jobs and unfortunately we see still the sloppy behavior of those most responsible in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71042	And this break has been approved. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71043	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club in order to consult once again in the amendments and additions to this law on the State's Attorney's Office. It is not clear to us and to the entire Croatian public that the state's attorneys who have the most sophisticated tools to fight the most complex forms of crime both in the European area, we have consulted outside European experts, especially the FBI and America, that such a state's attorney can't end up in Croatia a handful of thieves, a thesis, large criminals who have been harassing us in the last 10-15 years, have kidnapped billions of kunas, failed to launch criminal proceedings, or if we can't get them to a level playing field, or we can't reach a guilty verdict, if we come to a condemning verdict on the most complex forms of crime that USKOK deals with our state attorneys require work for the common good. Please, that's why we're looking for a break, we look forward to the main state attorney coming to this assembly and asking her when this will stop and when the Croatian people will start and have the right to have justice for their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71044	And this break is approved, but in accordance with Article. 293.b. We'll continue to work, and then we'll move on to the vote. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 MPs and MPs voted, 81 for, 31 abstention and 7 against, so we concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Areas and Seats of State Attorneys, first reading, P.Z. No. 210. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.A proposal for a law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 MPs and MPs voted, 80 for, 32 abstentions and 7 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71148	The following amendment is made to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 205. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, Secretary of State Josip Salapic remains. First Amendment 1 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71149	Thank you very much, Vice President. Amendment 1 to Article 15 shall be adopted but in a modified format which is now available. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Obligation to act with a lawyer who has the right in the Republic of Croatia to perform an attorneyship under the name of a lawyer under Articles 4 and 5. The Council Directive of 22 March 1977 on facilitating the effective exercise of the freedom to provide legal services applies only to lawyers from EU Member States who are not listed in the register of foreign lawyers and who are allowed to carry out certain actions in the context of the exercise of the lawyer's service and who intend to carry out representation actions in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71150	On behalf of the board of committee presidents of the respected representative Jelkovac, do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71151	Thank you very much. We accept it in a changed form because it's a clearer statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71152	Thank you, so it becomes in this form an integral part of the law. Amendment No 2 to Article 17
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71153	As far as all the other amendments are concerned, we accept all other amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71154	Therefore, Amendments 2, 3, 4 have been accepted and become components of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71155	That's right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71156	Now let's go, still up, not sorry, you're, you're done thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71157	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, and the amendment statement was made earlier in the session. The amendment was adopted by the first government in the amended form by which the applicant agreed, and in the amended form became an integral part of the final draft law. Amendments 2, 3 and 4 have been accepted by the government and have also become an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 116 MPs and representatives voted, 93 for, 11 abstentions and 12 against, so we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71282	We will now go to a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on technical requirements for products and assessment of conformity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 204. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Vesna Vucilović. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the remaining amendment submitted, State Secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71283	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment to Article 25 shall not be accepted for nomotechnical reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And we note that paragraph 3. Article 25 is already laid down administrative measures for the handling of competent inspectors in the exercise of controls on products placed on the market or on the market, including products in use where harmonised EU legislation is provided for. It is therefore not necessary to amend as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71284	Dear MPs, Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71285	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, you know very well that Article 4 states that this law applies to products in use, but I have made an amendment because I believe that we have focused too much on the products that are being placed on the market. So we have a lot of process equipment, so tanks. I cited an example of the diesel, where really competent inspection services have nothing to do if they issue certain administrative measures provided for by this law, and they are not removed during that period of time they stated. So, only when there's an accident, the police can come, put on a yellow ribbon and then ban the work, say, a canister of ammonia, for example. Some kind of, on some pipes where the safety valves, some kind of steam boiler or diesel. And there's a lot of diesel in the buildings. So there's nothing an inspector can do to ban the operation of a device that's not in line with what we call the correct device. This device is a danger to both the people and the environment, and unless we allow the competent inspectors to ban the operation of such a device, I don't know what they can do on the ground to prevent any possible having to do and to ask for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-12-0.u71286	Final proposal of the Act on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 204. The motion is government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee and MP Vesna Vucilovic. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees, and they become an integral part of the final draft of the law, and the statement on the remaining amendment was held earlier at the session and the amendment of the representative Vesna Vucilovic's government did not accept it, and we will vote on it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Technical Requirements Act for products and conformity assessment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 122 MPs and MPs voted, 116 for, 3 abstentions, 3 against, so the law was passed. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, first reading, P.Z. No. 180. The motion is government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.The amendment and supplementation of the Law on food additives, flavourings and food enzymes and 2.All objections and proposals will be made to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 122 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 17 abstentions, 28 against, have voted, and thus it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
