ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27218	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS and independent representatives in the name of which they will speak the respected representative Ermina Lekaj Arlaskaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27219	The respected chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues have been living in special circumstances for a year now due to the sudden appearance and unexpected development of the global epidemic. The consequences we all feel are justifiable fear of our own health and the health of our loved ones, but also the violation of the social networks we have built throughout our lives. The danger of uncontrollably spreading the virus slowed down a number of economic activities while the biggest financial burden of the crisis fell on the backs of small economic operators, our valuable craftsmen and entrepreneurs. I suppose the preservation of the lives and health of every member of our community is an imperative task with which we all strive. However, because of the completely unpredictable nature of the virus corona and the time uncertainty over the duration of certain waves of epidemics, it is our duty to find and establish clear, transparent and logical rules that will contribute to the normalisation of social life in which I primarily think about finding a balance between protection and public health and revitalisation of certain economic activities, especially those of service. I believe that by adopting different concrete measures to help the domestic economy so far, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown a high level of understanding for the problems facing our entrepreneurs. Also, compared with other EU member states, the Republic of Croatia still has a rather liberal regime to limit the movement and gathering of citizens. At the very heart of entrepreneurship, there is a non-compliance with any restrictions on the business initiative, and therefore I understand that our entrepreneurs are naturally trying to restore the working conditions that were in force before these last measures were introduced. Historical experience teaches us that the periods of major crises are at the same time and the most suitable moments for the taking of sharp administrative cuts that can lead to the healing of the entire economic system. I therefore believe that the circumstances for reviewing and dictating a whole series of parafiscal duties have now matured, which, like heavy shackles, choke Croatian entrepreneurship. I fully support the re-establishment of entrepreneurial freedoms, but for the final implementation of this objective, I recommend the phasing out and respecting the principle of proportionality. Daily statistics on the number of new infected confirm the correctness of the measures that the government and headquarters defined at the end of last year in the face of the consequences of the epidemic, but also encourages us to make a decision on the relaxation of certain measures. I believe that we should first start by reducing the restrictions on the catering sector and that the first step on this road should be to open external terraces. This opening should, of course, be carried out with maximum caution and with full respect for all other prescribed epidemiological measures. I also believe that without additional risk, I can quickly point out some obvious illogicalities related to the preparation and takeover of coffee for the outside, which in our hosts cause a sense of special dissatisfaction and create a legitimate impression of the regulation of unequal criteria. I believe that these concrete decisions can achieve the greatest possible effect in a very short time, and that this can also be the best way to regain full trust between the public stage actors, the same confidence that we were all so proud of together in the spring of last year when we resolutely and successfully opposed the first wave of the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27244	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Andreja Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A quality health system is the basis of healthcare, i.e. healthcare professionals, and available and regulated healthcare, and a patient is satisfied at the centre of the system. However, the Croatian health system is far from that. There is no clear programme of rehabilitation and health reform, no plan to settle the accumulated debt in health care. The limits given to health institutions every month are unequal, unfair and unrealistic. Founding general and county hospitals invest in health institutions, but also staff and employ according to their criteria and keys. About waiting lists in Croatian health care not to talk. And the criteria by which the limits are granted are unknown. Is that party membership, some earlier arrangements without being worth real, work done. Thus, in many hospitals the limits are equal or even lower than the cost of wages. Here's a few examples of the system's generosity with regard to funding. In two Slavonian general hospitals that are gravitated by 60 to 80,000 inhabitants, a monthly limit is allocated to about 5.4 million kuna and spends more than 6 million on wages and 9 and a half million on the other. Our hospital in Čakovec has a limit of only 10.9 million kuna for twice the population of gravity, and it gets almost twice as much as the hospital in the south of Croatia. One of the largest generators of increasing overall obligations and labour costs of health, health institutions, but also the availability of a wide range of medicines to citizens especially expensive medicines with other necessary material expenditures. But is it because of the poor health situation in patients or healthcare professionals? No, I don't. Our fellow citizens should be given quality health care. On the other hand, workers have made their salaries several times less than in other EU countries and have made much more money. They have their enthusiasm and many hours of overtime because we are not enough to be held by the system as accessible to the citizens. The problems facing healthcare institutions in recent months have arisen as a result of a corrected and deserved increase in public sector employees' salaries. On 8 January this year, the Croatian Medical Union sent a request to the Minister of Health for the Payment of the Debt on the basis of the Supreme Court ruling of 1.12.2020, which confirmed the right to increase the base for the calculation of salaries in public services of 6% for the period from December 2015 to January 2017. A letter of the same content was sent to all directors of health institutions. The Croatian medical union demands payment of the debt with a salary for January 2021. The administrations of health institutions are very prone to stalling debt payments while waiting for antiquity and write-off of debt on which the Croatian Medical Union cannot agree to the lessons learned so far by bad experiences, so our minister's testimony has been requested. In addition, new charges for the inadequate accounting of overtime for the unsuspected period are to be filed for the period from 1.12.2018 to 1.4.2020 when the redefinition of the accounts for the second period where it was still miscalculated. On the other hand, the hospital's administration is addressed to the resolution ministry and the founders, or to the counties, asking for instructions on how to handle and address the problem, since it is millions of amounts, and they do not have the means to do so. For example, Zabok General Hospital has monthly incomes of 10.8 million kunas, monthly wages and related payments amount to 10.1 million kunas per month, and employees' claims on those grounds are already around 17 million kunas. The limits of the last 2 years have not been significantly increased, and the cost of wages, medicines and investment is significantly higher. And such a relationship is unsustainable and unsustainable in small and medium hospitals. So we can conclude that our health system is about to collapse, and this is not how it goes anymore. Let us add all the above mentioned and dissatisfaction to the working conditions and treatment of healthcare professionals especially the doctor. It is a shame that, for over 6 years, nothing has been done to resolve the representative nature of the doctor sought through amendments to the legal provisions and amendments to the Law on Representativeness in order to establish equal relations between public service unions, which has not yet been resolved by the competent ministry. And we are actually wondering if our country Croatia wants a better health system, satisfied our patients and satisfied healthcare workers? He has to do something because he doesn't go on like this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27320	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] We have reached out, and now we are going to take a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and will first speak the respected representative Marko Milanović litre on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27321	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. With yesterday's former minister Martina Dalic took over Podravka. She received the trust of the Supervisory Board, i.e. it would be more accurate to tell the Government's Supervisory Board. So she got some of the biggest Croatian brands such as Lino, Lino Lada, Vegeta, Dolcele, Eve, Fanta, Fine-minia, Quickie and many others. In this appointment, expertise, references and merits are not questionable if you ask those who decide. All of the above, the former minister proved to be more important to the one whose opinion is only important. Capo di tuti capo can do whatever he wants, so he can appoint a former minister to head one of the leading Croatian companies. This appointment of Martina Dalic to the President of the Podravka administration makes it clear that the accounts of the ruling with corrupt amoral behaviour are always cosmetic and temporary. These moves not only show that you have no will, desire or strength to break these practices, but prove your fundamental values when it comes to relation to the state property or property of the Croatian people, the Croatian people who are the hostage of your artistic policies, decisions and party staffing. These policies are not new on the Croatian political scene. It is already a common practice of political elites that has led our country in this way for decades. Croatia cannot move forward and therefore it is my duty as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and as a Croatian patriot and sovereign who has the interests of the nation in the first place to warn that this is a scandal that we will not go through. The Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have thus lost every credibility to speak about economic issues, because they have shown that neither the burden of various affairs such as the Borg nor the deep process of the collapse of Agrokor is an obstacle for Martini Dalic to give them one of the most valuable Croatian jewels of the economy. Martini Dalic, who publicly claims Agrokor is a great reference to her and laughs at all of us. Like Vegeta, Podravkin's most famous brand Plenkovic interferes with everything. The economy has been politicised as if we were in the Soviet Union, and this is confirmed by the recent informal coalition with Mrs Peovic from the Workers' Front and smoking into the same horn around the bassion of the ruling HGK. A clear motive for ruling with the Prime Minister, that the Croatian transition and the socialist economy never ends. Because if politics lost control of companies like Podravka to whom they would frame and where they would place former ministers burdened with affairs, where they would hire their relatives, godfathers and party armies. They do not mind that many entrepreneurs, craftsmen, and their employees today are on their knees as many families are at risk of existence and future. They will insist on such unreasonable policies by turning Croatia into a European Venezuela. Over three decades of restoring Croatia's statehood, which unfortunately did not result in satisfactory economic growth and development that everyone expected Croatia to stagnate, Croatia lags behind and many transition countries have overtaken us. Not some, but most likely all today. If there is a perfect example to explain why this happened, then it is Plenkovic's commissioner's appointment to Martina Dalic as head of Podravka.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27377	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic will now stand before the Green-left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27378	I'm glad that today there will be a minister of culture and media here because from this place, good day minister, you know when to enter, because from this place I want to ask the question to which one is the most called. How many big thugs must the people that HDZ has chosen to run HRT to make this government decide to do anything, how much more evidence is needed? Let's not talk about the fact that there is no policy in this because it is simply not true, that when the previous HRT Supervisory Board has filed its findings and made serious accusations against the account of this criminal group that supports sex offenders, who have been given the opportunity to manage with a billion and a half kuna of Croatian citizens and citizens, this supervisory board, which mostly consisted of their people and their members and members of their party, would not necessarily have been replaced by those from the Supervisory Board but by the board of directors of HRT. This HRT administration led that house to the very bottom. Every criticism that they received was covered by lawsuits, persecuted by their own journalists who wanted to do the job responsibly, persecuted, spent in a suspicious way, disobeyed labour rights, mobilized pregnant women, turned the information program into the cheapest propaganda of the ruling. Today, HRT is no longer considered to be a serious or relevant medium. And now they come up with evidence that this administration was covering up the sexual abuse of one of its members. My colleague Rada Boric made it clear in her speech from this place yesterday that Croatia has adopted since 2018. How to handle cases of sexual abuse charges. In addition, Croatia also has the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, which we worked on among other things, Fred Matic, and Vesna Nađ, Rada Boric and I, which was adopted in this assembly. And this law clearly speaks of the importance of avoiding retraumaticisation of victims of sexual violence. Not only did the HRT administration not follow that procedure, but they did what was never done, they confronted the victim with the attacker. It is a dear minister in the Republic of Croatia that remains illegal, but above all it is morally unacceptable. And then to rub salt on the wound, they stood on his side, there wasn't even an illusion of neutrality, that's a shame, ma'am. Minister, it's a splash in the face of all victims of sexual violence. Is that Croatia we want here? Is that the kind of Croatia you want? Minister? Are HRT abusers really the ones you want to protect? I call on all colleagues and colleagues in the assembly to call the HRT Supervisory Board to our conscience and responsibility, and as a body that we choose and which is suitable for us to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the head of HRT for violation of Article 8. 20. HRT law. Minister, in this situation you can either be on the victim's side or on the abuser's side. If you're not doing anything, you're certainly not on the victim's side. Violents and Croatians remain exclusively with the political blessing of the party, which is in power and the political blessing of members and members of the government. Once, for once, do the right thing, invite them to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27425	Thank you very much, please, let's stick to the time. ... There was a time being measured. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next club of representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stephan Nikola Bartulica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is to encourage recent events in Croatia, and even with this protest yesterday in Ban Jelačić Square, I would like to look back on the situation and what I think is obvious that we have an anti-reform force in power led by Prime Minister Plenkovic who, in fact, rejects any change, even small. So this example of forced membership in the HGK needs to open our eyes to what extent they are willing to resist the legitimate demands of the people who pay that membership. So we're a country where freedom is lacking, and we're also a culture of freedom where we appreciate what our own people say, not subjects, but free people. I will repeat my thesis that politics has too much to determine in Croatia from the economy, we see it through the Podravka case, but also media space, so there are great signs from the budget to media houses, but also through advertising of public companies is influenced by our money on media behaviour. The share of the total state in GDP is over 50%, which is a very large share and is the cause of economic stagnation. We see that levers are not easily released, even old habits, bad habits. In this case, with Podravka, Martina Dalic is not so important but rather the fact that the prime minister of the government is humanising in such a company at all. So we haven't clearly defined ourselves for a free economy, we have to be aware that there is a great price for it. One Slovakia, for example. which spent several years ago each year creating 20 billion euros more than Croatia, so EUR 20 billion on an annual basis, that is through 5.g. 100 billion, so it becomes actually a land of prosperity where people find a new job easily compared to where we lose people and it's no secret why. If they are unable to make a small change in how to finance the Chamber of Commerce, then how will we expect them to implement structural reforms, from the healthcare system further? When we talk about the culture of freedom and the things that are not respected by entrepreneurs, therefore their will to finance that institution voluntarily we see it through other examples. For example. compulsory health insurance, yet all employees in Croatia do not have a choice but must necessarily pay HZZO. It has a monopoly position, so it is the cause of various abuses, including political corruption. And he would say behind the word "solidarity" is actually hiding this mass corruption and not rational resource management. It is not therefore a surprise that doctors too, but also nurses unfortunately leave Croatia. Employment goes through competitions and we know well what it looks like with us, everything is agreed in advance and everything is known and if you are not a member of the ruling elites, the ruling structures, you are actually citizens of the second order, you have no chance of actually getting a job in the real world unfortunately. So we haven't even started these reforms, we see that small reforms are stopping, and so I say, once again we see that our institutions are unfortunately trapped, we don't have free institutions that are in the service of this people, and this is increasingly visible, the old rhetoric of stability has long been spent and read in our people who want to live with dignity. I think it's clear to everyone that changes can only come from new political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27497	The next club of MPs is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27498	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Says our prime minister the other day that entrepreneurs are protesting because they fear for their survival, people who call for disobedience and violation of measures. Look, those were our prime minister's words. If there was ever any doubt that opposition remarks and a number of Croatian experts that there is a problem with the way decisions are made, now for almost a year, then the last line and doubts erased the prime minister's call for disobedience. So are they, and they are Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ imagine the state. Some of them are going to play a social game, say "Monopol", "Rizik", or say they agree to the legion of dice sitting around the table and deciding who can do what they can, and who can't, who lives, and who dies still without the plan and programme, without indicators on which some decisions would be based, so it is known in advance that people can plan and, of course, without any role of the highest representative body of HS citizens. And then when someone dares to say, hey, guys, stop a little bit, so we're dying here, so it's the ones who are calling for disobedience because big daddy's annoying it. There must be discipline and everyone has to listen to what he said. Of course, it is clear and no one denies that until enough people are vaccinated, we must be careful what we do and that someone is responsible for doing so, but from the beginning to today, the same mistakes are made. In fact, you don't know when something is allowed, and something isn't, on the basis of which the indicators make decisions and what needs to be agreed on to change those decisions and what's worst, there's no real system. It is not known in the evening what will be decided in the morning and, therefore, from the first day on, some are most strictly prohibited from what others are allowed to do. Not to mention the examples that are known to everyone, the clumping spas or kilometer rows for skiing on Sljemen in which people crinkled as sardines don't usually wear masks, that I don't mention at all a variety of mostly religious festivals, festivals for which there was significantly more understanding from the beginning than for others. And at the same time, cafes can't sell coffee for outside or even put a few tables on the terrace under the heater, so if someone wants to sit down and make some money. Today, our fellow citizens are buying coffee in a bakery, and then they go and sit on the terraces of cafes that are closed and drink coffee there. But okay, that's it. Fortunately, not everyone is so insubordinate to our prime minister as the entrepreneurs who protest, there are those who listen very nicely to exemplary conduct and there are no objections to them. For example, the Podravka Supervisory Board here are these entrepreneurs who are not lucky enough to sit on the Podravka Supervisory Board should learn from them how to be obedient or, say, we here in an opposition that is constantly grizzling, nagging, moaning and totally disobeying the Prime Minister, we might look up to some of our colleagues as to how to be obedient. So one day you say and you write that you're going to vote to abolish mandatory memberships in HGK, and the next day you listen nicely to the public and say that you're happy because here's the deal and that it's not going to be anything. Now, dear entrepreneurs, the Prime Minister has told you only you don't listen to him, so you don't have to protest in a desperate winter. To save your own existence rather than fine, nice on the warm around the table you collect points [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] But the only thing you'll have to give up is your cheek. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27596	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HDZ and will be spoken by respected representative Ana-Marija Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27597	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here in the last week we've witnessed really terrible events. A bomb was dropped at HEP employees in Pakrac, a missile was fired in Zlatar, and a terrible multiple murder took place in Sibenik. The children lost their parents, their mothers without their children. I'm sure none of us have been indifferent to all this. All these places are otherwise characterized as peaceful, without a higher crime rate and residents are shaken by what happened in their midst. All these events have found their own space in the media. Today I do not want to go into the background of these events but I also want to warn some of the important issues that have been reopened to me. I'll start with possession of illegal weapons and explosive devices. For many years, the MUP has been carrying out a voluntary handover of weapons without sanctions. Unfortunately, in these examples, we see that, regardless of the efforts and media campaigns, actions, illegal weapons are still in our vicinity. As a mother, that fact really worries me. I wonder if really repression is one way to reduce possession of it. Unfortunately, areas like the Pakrac that were hit in the Homeland War today have consequences, and possession of illegal weapons is one of them. From the example of Zlatar, we see that this is not only the consequences of the Homeland War but it is a much wider problem. I'm sure that illegal weapons don't make people who own it safe, but we can see that it's endangering his life and the lives of the people around him. From 1.9.2007 to 30.11.2020, in the Republic of Croatia, citizens voluntarily handed over 5493 kg of explosives. 5 million 570 thousand and 778 pieces of ammunition, 5345 pieces of automatic and 9183 pieces of firearms, and 330 thousand 642 pieces of spraying weapon. Those are terrible numbers to me, aren't they? It's even scarier to know that he's still around us. I appeal to anyone who illegally owns a weapon to report it to the competent authority without sanctions with anonymity. In that act, you will create a safer future. The next terrible thing is that some people were killed doing their job in their workplace. What kind of society we have become if we have to be anxious and afraid to go to work especially if we are doing any form of public work, public activity. It is impossible for all of us to have official protection because this is about workers on counters, in banks, in post office, various institutions, merchants, postmen, public transport drivers, people working in courts, welfare centres, HEP workers. They all meet daily with verbal or physical attacks, and they just do their job. There's one more thing I want to talk about that was really shocking in me, but I'm terribly worried. That's what we talked about after the attack that took place recently here and in Mark's square. Commentators of media articles who write about this terrible event publicly express hate speech and support those who have committed these terrible crimes. If we just take a quick look at the comments, we can read it. It's an honor to take justice into your own hands, bravo, hero, and all the way to insinuating who else needs to be dropped the bomb. It's scary to me. At the moment where we are all back a year from the pandemic to the earthquake in Banovina we live under stress and each in their own way experiences the event around us. Some people just need some triggers to make unwanted events for themselves and their family or anyone in their environment, and comments that call for hate, reckoning, and violence certainly are not welcome. In fact, I can cause a lot of bad things. Our children, our young people are on social networks reading these comments. It's up to us to stop it because it's not freedom of expression. Unfortunately, some politicians who use this speaker need to ask themselves whether they are using it for freedom of expression or for encouraging hate, because the limit between the two concepts is very small. For the end. To the families who have lost their loved ones in all these crimes, I express my condolences, and I want the injured workers of HEP to recover as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27672	The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST on behalf of whom the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27673	Thank you very much. Croatian Prime Minister and Minister Coric stress often green policies, however, it is fire and water, nor care about green policies, nor solve these problems. I'll start here from one big problem, it's agglomeration. In Croatia we have dozens of agglomerations that are done, built and are a joint project of local self-government and local waters of Croatian waters. However, we have a huge problem, and the problem of course is always sticking to the nose of the Dalmatian fire. The project team for agglomeration Sinj participated in Croatian waters, local plumbing and, of course, local self-government. It was co-financed together, essentially, by contract partners or agglomeration participants. With this agglomeration, it would be resolved that the sewerage, the complete sewerage of the centre of the Dalmatian Zagora, the hearts of the Dalmatian Zagora, is Sinj where the 25,000 inhabitants live does not directly affect the Cetina River. Just so you know what it's all about, it's about the Cetina River drinking and using the water of people and the Macarian coast and Omis and Hvar, parts of Split and other parts of Dalmatia. The sewerage that would be dealt with by this project has been questioned. Last year, public procurement was cancelled because costs were not well estimated, i.e. The cost of selecting was significantly higher. Then I wrote to Minister Coric, Prime Minister, that such a situation is on the market because they participate, they appointed representatives of Croatian Waters. And they annuled public procurement to repeat that same public procurement, to now divide it into 3 lot, into 3 bases, as they already say, so that now the price of agglomeration of Sinj would be exactly the same. By 2023, this sewerage must be completed. 80, this agglomeration project, 80% is funded by EU funds, and it is questionable. And that's why I brought here a few days ago what affects, a fluid that affects Cetina, into a clear river Cetina and not only that Cetina powers Dalmatia, Cetina produces a river of 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens of Sinja and Dalmatia, my Cetin region, are paying neatly to Croatian waters to maintain the canal, everything that needs to be done. You know what they're doing? Nothing. Nothing. In addition to hiring politicians who lose elections, these, they, they, can check it out very easily, but I have to say here, that I have sent a request to be admitted to Croatia, that I asked for talks with representatives means a local self-government plumber and I hoped and, by local self-government, that Croatian waters would accept it to talk, as the only parliamentary representative from Sinj and Cetin end, I have an obligation to do so. Croatia's waters, however, sent a memo saying they would receive, quit the meeting yesterday. That he'd see me. Which is why they gave up because they... Croatian waters, am I, as the legal representative of the Sinja people, the only one in this House, I have the right to ask for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or are we going to turn into our idol, Andrijak Simic, a hiduk? Why would I want the tribals down there? Staying in the 21st century center of the Dalmatian Burn, cultural, historical, to stay di, in the 17th century? Minister Coric, you said that 60% of the transferred... You'll pay, Sinj's under. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Find money, Croatian waters that do not do their work anywhere, do not want to communicate normally, I have no other messages here. If you do not want to communicate, I was also an activist, the people of Sinj and the Cetin region will rise up and find ways to stop what is done towards this end, we ask ourselves, and I answer, this is what Ministers Ćorić and Croatian Waters do to the people of Sinj On purpose. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27760	The next club of representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u27761	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What I'm going to talk about today is the mirror of our society, this is our reflection in the mirror, this is a sad and ugly picture of growing poverty in the Republic of Croatia, and I'm going to talk about family pensions. Know that the attitude we take about family pensions is attitude towards the marriage community, is attitude towards pension insurance, is attitude towards poverty, is attitude towards European membership. We swear on the sanctity of marriage, we say that the payments are in retirement, so pension insurance is less than payment, that we have a problem. We're saying poverty is the cancer of this society. We speak and swear on a European tradition and European membership. And I say, the time has come for us to move from word to deed. HSU has drawn up 2 draft laws containing the necessary legal changes in the correction of the long-term injustice of the pension system. The first is the proposal for a Family Retirement Act, which offers an option that is now missing. He's offering to inherit the widow, except for his pension, and 50% of the deceased's pension. Why do I say widows? Because 93% of those are family pension beneficiaries. In accepting this proposal, it would mitigate the decline in the standard of living precisely for those persons who, therefore, have all the costs that remain the same, and the receipts are drastically reduced. Croatia is among the rare European countries that have no family pension and the introduction of it in Croatia would be no precedent, this would be only a very practical solution using a European model for solving Croatia's problem, a major burning problem. This would therefore introduce a fair practice that respects past work, which respects payment and not any payment, but a multi-year joint payment of contributions and that protects citizens from poverty. The second proposal is a bill amending the Pension Insurance Act, in which, instead of the current right for a widow to receive 70% of pensions after the death of a partner, they would receive 80% of pensions, thus increasing their pensions by 10%. So you never hear both options but either one or the other use and that's the option. This would also increase their 2000 pensions by almost 10%, on average 2329 kuna. The averages are less than 500 kuna, i.e. 500 kuna of average pensions and are less than 800 kuna of retirement pensions. So that's something worth doing. It is something to give the greatest effort of this society to bring it in and to fight growing poverty. Family pensions are the most vulnerable pensions given the total length of the payment of the contribution. For years, when they've been depriving them, they've been paralysing those who've been paying a little, and they're getting a lot. It is time for this injustice, this great Croatian sin to be corrected. In doing so, I have no doubt that if 200,000 widows in Croatia could vote for the law today, they would vote immediately. But I invite and call all Croatian husbands do they have the right to leave their widows in poverty after they die? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u29058	And we still have one point, and that's the report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so I'm asking the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u29059	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of HS at our 12th session, held on 4 February 2021, discussed the notice of the HDZ that the late representative Miroslav Tudjman had been replaced by Tomislav Okroš by the act of the president of HS since 4 February 2021. The Commission found that Miroslav Tudjman died on 31 January 20201. Ten points. 4 The Law on election of MPs in HS on the day of death has ceased the parliamentary term of MP Miroslav Tudjman. The HDZ shall be based on art. 42th century 3 of the Law on election of MPs in HS has appointed Tomislav Okroš as deputy representative. In accordance with the above, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be the subject of the Article. 10, 11 and 42 centuries 3 Laws on election of representatives in HS and Art. 10, 9 and 116 of the HS Rules of Procedure proposes to the HS to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the deputy representative's office. On January 31st, 2021, MP Miroslav Tudjman’s death ended his term of office. Advocacy of Deputy Representative Tomislav Okroša in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 9th century 2 of the HS Rules of Procedure begin to act when the Assembly determines by decision the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u29060	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'd like to conclude today's work. We even ended up in today, a few minutes, though. We will continue after all tomorrow, not today, but tomorrow at 10.45 and the first item will be the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis for 2021. Session interrupted at 23.55 hours. We are now going to the point - Selection, appointments and resolutions Please be President of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposals for decisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u30949	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few proposals for election decisions, on the termination of the board's term of office. First, for the internal policy and national security of HS, MP Josip Saric, Saric, pardon, of course, these changes are unfortunately related to, in order to end our colleague's term of office, Dr. Miroslav Tudjman. The following is the Proposal for a Decision on the selection and termination of the term of office of a member of the SS Defence Committee, Stipan Sashlin is elected. And the next is the Proposal for a Decision on the election and termination of the term of office of member of the HS War Veterans Committee, Goran Ivanovic is elected. These have been made, the motions for a decision today at the committee's session and these decisions will take effect on the day of their adoption, will be published in the National Journal. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u30950	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31711	Dear MPs and MPs good morning, we continue to work according to the plan we announced, so the first point today: - Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, first reading, P.Z. No. 61. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Honored Minister of Culture and Media Nina Obuljen Koržinek, I welcome the minister and please, you can present the law to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31712	... Honored MPs and representatives. [[Last-on speaker]] You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights. I would point out in the introduction that this law dates back to the, uh, 2003 law. and since then, it has been amended and complemented six times in order to comply with the development of the European and international legal framework and since the adoption of the Copyright and Related Rights Directive on the Digital Single Market and the Directive laying down rules on the achievement of copyright and related rights applicable to certain internet transfers of the organisation for radio broadcasting and re-emission of television and radio programmes and to the extent of the proposed amendments, this whole new law has been proposed. It is always important to point out when it comes to this area of legislation that it belongs to part of international private law and has, both copyright and related rights have a prominent international legal mark not only in relation to the EU but also in other international conventions. The directive we are harmonising with has been the subject of long debates at EU level, it could also be said that comprehensive discussions between 2016 and 2019 in which our representatives, representatives of the Republic of Croatia, have been very actively involved in representing the national interests of authors, copyright and adequate debates and public debates have also been led at national level. I would like to say that given that this law includes one really large number of stakeholders who are or have an interest in editing this area, so our working group counted more than 60 stakeholders, the very process of lawmaking was run by the State Intellectual Property Office, there is Director Ljiljana Kuterovac. In this opening part, I would also mention that the adoption of this law is crucial for the maintenance and development of Croatian cultural and creative industries. Before this crisis, it is estimated that their contribution to the economy of the Republic of Croatia was approximately 4.6% in total employment and 6.3% in GDP, while in exporting cultural and creative industries we achieved results much better than in exports of some other goods and services. However, the covid crisis has had a devastating impact on this particular area, and some of the latest research shows that, with air transport, culture and cultural and creative industries are the most affected by the covid crisis. I point out that because much has gone into the digital sphere, and this law puts emphasis precisely on defining, regulating and protecting copyright and related rights in the digital environment. As far as the basic issues covered by the law are concerned, I would point out one part of the issues related to the elimination of legal uncertainty so far, so better regulation of those provisions that concern, which are the issue of our national selection in matters of arrangements, particularly the question of mining, the use of digital content in libraries, other institutions, in this regard, introduces an exception for so-called. mining of text, then exception for the use of protected content in digital and cross-border settings and exceptions when it is necessary to preserve and protect cultural heritage. Another important area of regulation concerns improving the practice of licensing and ensuring wider access to protected content, and I would like to highlight the regulation of the use of parts and other items of protection inaccessible on the market by institutions holding cultural heritage, as well as facilitating access to audiovisual parts on platforms on so-called “. ” video on request. This is partly related to the Law on Electronic Media that we will have after this. The third area of regulation refers to the creation of a well-functioning copyright market, so in this law the protection of the right of the issuers of information publications regarding the internet use of such publications and the use of copyrights or related rights of protected content by providers of content sharing services via the Internet is regulated. In other words, a new regime for the protection of especially Croatian publishers, but also of all those authors whose content is often shared and used on different platforms, without them having any material benefit or respect for their moral rights. The fourth area relates to the provision of assumptions for fair compensation to authors and contractors in contracts subject to their rights for the use of their works or other subjects of protection in such a way that a clear principle of adequate and proportionate compensation is laid down in this law, to introduce an obligation relating to transparency of information on the use of the subject of protection, a mechanism for the adjustment of the contract is prescribed in the event that the originally prescribed fee is shown to be disproportionately low in relation to the revenues from use, this is again particularly important for large internet platforms and fourthly, the authors and contractors are allowed to call off the exclusive licence if there is no use of the works or other subject of protection which is again very important in case the authors find their content without their will and signed contracts. And not only do they find them for use, but they also find someone else monetizing them. In addition, following this Directive, which aims to ensure more favourable conditions for dissemination in the Member States of television and radio programmes, rules are adopted to facilitate copyright licensing and related rights, which in particular highlight the appropriate way of determining the application of the country of origin principle when broadcasting organisations want to provide certain internet services across borders, then extending the compulsory collective exercise of rights to all types of re-emission of programmes and introducing clear rules on the regulation of copyright and related rights in transfer situations, software signals through the direct flow technical process, a term known in practice as direct investment. In addition to these amendments stemming from the obligations of EU membership in the proposed law, further amendments and additions to the arrangements of certain issues on the basis of the problems we have seen or shortcomings in the application of the legislation so far have been made. In particular, I would like to highlight the editorial work done in a work relationship, whether it is a state or public service, contracts for the creation of copyright works by order, contracts and the creation of copyright works, as well as other subjects of protection in certain specific areas, e.g. a publishing, publishing, audiovisual or musical production, then a more extensive regulation of the right of publishers of informational publications, a more detailed arrangement of the conditions for the exercise of the collective exercise of rights by independent management entities, a clearer regulation of the processing of works, and a more detailed definition of copyrights and related rights to be exercised in the collective protection system, etc. As for the expectations of this proposed law, I would like to point out several important points. First, we expect clearer rules to achieve greater legal certainty for all holders of copyright and related rights and thus directly contributes to the economic sustainability of cultural and creative and media industries. It will also increase legal certainty in the field of research organisations, cultural heritage organisations, educational institutions, this is very important because there have been some concerns as to what extent certain content protected by copyright can be used for these purposes and the issue of text-mining and data which is very important for the scientific and research community will also be addressed. I stress that this law prescribes a new right, a new related right to copyright for publishers of informational publications, in other words, if some aggregaters such as. Google news uses content published by the media, and, of course, earning advertising, will have the obligation to regulate the transfer of such content and make up for the authors of such content. This proposal also regulates the content that is stored and shared through these platforms and, in fact, for the first time, clearly prescribes the responsibility of the provider of content-sharing services through the Internet for those protected contents which are transmitted, stored and shared through their platforms, in other words, if copyright is not regulated, it will be possible to request that the contents for which the rights are not regulated be removed. I would also like to mention the question of the fair compensation of authors and performers as an important issue that has led to a lot of debate between different stakeholders, authors and producers, i.e. the specific question of performers and biographers. What may still be mentioned is that this proposed law facilitates the licensing of copyright and related rights for works and other protection matters which are relevant in the broadcasting of certain types of television and radio programmes, taking into account the literal application of the country of origin rules and also rules are prescribed in the case of transmission of software signals by means of a technical process of direct flow. We expect that the consequences of the introduction of these newspapers will be easier expansion in EU Member States, national television and radio programmes, as well as greater availability in the Republic of Croatia, television and radio programmes originating from other EU Member States. We estimate that the more precise regulation of the conditions for carrying out the activity of independent management entities as well as the collective exercise of rights that carry out the collective exercise of copyright and related rights will contribute to greater transparency in their business and the overall effectiveness of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system again as in our tradition, European tradition, still the best way to ensure the rights of authors and all other holders of related rights. A clearer definition of the processing of works will resolve certain ambiguities that occurred in the practical application of the subject-matter of protection, thereby contributing to greater legal certainty among all market players. The same effect is also expected with regard to the regulation of the situation where natural or legal persons, on the basis of their own initiative, provide informational publications or copyright broadcasting organisations with the purpose of publishing news and informing the public about the current news. Also, by editing existing open copyright issues concerning audiovisual works in the archives of HRT which were created before 1990, they will ensure the preconditions for their orderly use. Finally, given that this law regulates primarily private-legal issues in the area of copyright and related rights and that certain aspects of the already existing system of copyright protection and related rights are improved, it will not, according to our assessment, require any additional funding from the state budget, set out in a good way a framework for fair redistribution of income between holders and users of individual copyrights or related rights. With colleagues and colleagues from the State Institute of Intellectual Property who are holders of this law, we will follow closely the debate, I would also like to stress in this opening work that several issues, as always, remain open and after the debate within the working group and after the public debate, some of these stakeholders have also contacted parliamentary representatives and representatives' clubs and we will closely monitor your discussions because I think that the aim and interest of all to achieve and adopt such a norm which will allow all stakeholders in the field of cultural and creative industries in Croatia to make fair compensation but also facilitate business because it is for the benefit of all those who operate in this area. This is a really important law for the Croatian cultural and creative industry, for its future development in the digital environment, we have led to two interests or two principles, firstly to regulate the Croatian market to be safe, to ensure fair fees and in a good way, to manage the relations between all stakeholders, this is what the task is on the national market, but it was equally important to achieve and adopt, propose to this High House such solutions that will ensure adequate protection for the preservation of the future development of Croatian cultural and creative industries compared to global digital platforms. I will complete this opening exhibition by reminding us that for a few months, in which the largest number of cultural and creative industries were available digitally, we were pleased that we could access these contents to a large extent for free, however, we must be aware that the authors and holders of related rights, so the performers and the rest of their creative work, their only source of income. One of the important tasks of this law is that even in this digital time when we may sometimes feel that it must be available to everyone for free, to be aware that there are people who live from that income exclusively and that we must find a way to provide them with a fair compensation. Regardless of certain recommendations on individual solutions in this law, it is clear from all the debates that this is something that leads to all stakeholders, so I will conclude that I believe that today this debate will help us to see this law again in some areas and improve it and bring it to this High House for a second reading as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31713	Minister, stay here because you have 21 lines. First up, comrade Ban Vlahek, here you go. It's 22. Dear Minister, there is still plenty of room in this law for progress that has not been made until the end and as suggested by the new provisions of the directive, the bill should be complemented. For example, to enable libraries as support institutions of science and education to produce collections in digital form, value their independent educational work, enable the use of resources without fear of repealing legal exceptions in contracts and enable the necessary modernisation of the overall activity that they always carry out with high awareness of copyright and within the law of the allowed framework in the public interest to which they serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31716	Thank you for your comment. Of course, as a resorient ministry in charge of the library, we took special care of provisions related to libraries. I have seen that one of the representatives of the library community came from a longer concept of certain legal provisions, however, everything that could and should have been incorporated into this law and as regards availability and possible restrictions related to libraries, it was introduced, so I would just say that this concern that certain provisions of this law would have made it impossible for libraries, for example. in these pies you mentioned, they don't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31717	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31718	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, here's something about our musicians. Namely, we are talking about digital platforms distributed by music, rightholders are, of course, especially performers, authors and discographers in some part of the cake. At this time, the authors' organizations account for about 12%, the rest of the various intermediaries, mostly the discographers. The directive accurately states, quotes: "Authors and contractors need protection provided for by this Directive" but for now, as far as we can see, is insisted in this bill on existing contracts although the directive accurately states that the state should protect these contractors. I'm not attacking, I'm just saying, I heard you're going to be working with both DZIV and your expert group, so I'm asking you to think about it a little bit before we see the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31719	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31720	Thank you very much. At the committees and today at the plenary session, I pointed out that there are some issues that remain open and for which we are looking for the best solution, not a number of meetings we have held both individually and jointly and within the working groups, not the only country that is seeking a solution, I will remind myself, we are representatives of our government but I must also say that the representatives of our party in the European Parliament have strongly advocated for a solution that would be even more favourable for the protection of the performers, unfortunately the directive was adopted in the text in which it was adopted, however, it also instructs lawmakers to find a way to make fair compensation for the performers and anything that is proposed today in terms of finding such a solution, we will consider it because it is in the interest of all, it is in the interests of the discographic industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31721	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31722	Thank you very much. Ministers, to arrange copyright as property of individuals, of course it is acceptable, but I would ask one question, essentially, composers, performers, have their own roof association ZAMP, it seems to me that our legal entities, the hosts, the other pay and ok, I am interested in how much of it goes to composers, performers and how much ZAMP, this roof association, which apparently has more intention to create its own empire personally than to pay the well-deserved copyright to the people who exercise this right, and this law is clearly the goal of regulating this area. Well, if you can answer that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31723	Here, answer Here you go. [[Intruding Bulj: I, Minister, advertise, Honored Chairman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31724	You can go ahead, it's not protected by copyright. So this mask is in free use, I think it's good. ZAMP is really very common in the public presence, but ZAMP is only one of collective rights protection organisations, performers representing HUZIP, ZAPRAF discographers, etc., we have an organization for the protection of film authors, producers, writers, etc., etc. Indeed one of the topics that has always been public, was whether objects that use music, pay it, I don't think it's really something that should be troubled, I pointed out in the introduction that our artists live on and it's their only or most important income, and I think it's in our best interest to protect this income, And in the introduction, I said this law would lead to transparent provisions on collective organisations. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31725	Thank you very much. Now it's my fellow Mlinaric's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31726	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the document I hold in my hand is the annual report on the division of the performance fees drawn up by the Spanish association to protect the rights of performers. It accurately lists the number of works, the number of performances and, more importantly, the number of performers who have obtained the right to compensation. The numbers say everything. Even 53,892 musicians were compensated for performing musical works. Why does this bill claim that this is not possible in Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31727	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31728	Thank you. I know what you didn't exactly set in your replica, but it does refer to whether a Spanish model that is unique in the EU could be introduced in Croatia, in relation to the protection of the performers, is one of the topics that has been discussed a lot, but it is important to know that the Spanish model has a different model and I'm not sure that most Croatian performers would approach such a model because it predominates mandatory collective protection or transfer rights to a collective organisation and then an indecisive fee, we see here is your colleague Dretar who knows the area well, with us is a different model, a large number of performers negotiate their rights with the discographers directly, but it's all open as the association defines itself. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31729	Thank you, Minister, please hold on to your time. My colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31730	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'm going to ask you a question about another area and that's the area of architecture. The area of architecture so far in the current law, I'm telling it, so in 2003 it was very clumsy, almost in no way regulated. Now you've regulated it in a way that it's a relationship between, so between architects, so to speak, who's the contractor of the work, and I'm sure there's still room for improvement, for what reason? For the reason that, so someone who ordered, the architect's interest is to have his house, which he designed, now I'm talking exclusively about the house, be carried out. The architect's interest is that the changes that happen on it, they happen with his consent, and he certainly wouldn't want the one who delivered his work to him, or who paid him, to build the same house somewhere else without him knowing anything about it. So that's another part that I think should have an improvement in the final bill and I'm going to do something about it and in the debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31731	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31732	Thank you. There were some words about it on the board, and that's something that we're sorting out with our national legislation, so we've been going towards one of the improvements that are partly stemming from some of the problems that were in practice. As I said on the board, in one part it is a question of copyright and legal protection of architects, especially in relation to their relationship with the client, but it appears in practice and an additional problem if necessary, because of the respect of some other regulations, to which some architect or holder, therefore copyright may agree or do not agree. So, here, we'll see, I think we've already improved the text compared to the current one, but we'll see if there's anything else that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31733	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31734	Dear Minister, we support efforts to resolve copyright in a digital environment, which is an important, difficult and comprehensive job that is crucial, not only for our future but also for our present. However, in the current first draft of the law, there seems to be a lot of dissatisfaction, the author who will consume the rights. One of them is, for example, journalists who are disturbed by art. 96, which states that the employer has exclusive copyright rights in its environment. Others are performers. Artists, for example, are bothered by the inconsistency that journalists have with their rights. Article 162 related. 218 achieve collectively, while performers cannot do the same. And the third is publishers. 213 is prescribed that authors can only collectively exercise certain rights. How do you think it's even possible? To reconcile all these different interests? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31735	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31736	Thank you for your replica. Well, just what you are in the end, reconcile all these different interests. This is a law in which there is a lot of individual interests, and the interest of the Croatian cultural and creative industry that all, to the extent possible, achieve certain solutions that will protect them. There is a different situation between journalists and performers, I think with this proposal and it is now being determined by a large number of countries, we will finally ensure that for those contents produced by our publishers and journalists, someone starts to receive compensation because no one is now receiving compensation, and journalists will agree through their collective organisation in relation to the publishers on which percentage this will be redistributed. I don't see any other way than collectively, to solve that issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31737	Thank you. My colleagues, the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31738	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Director. From the proposal of this law, which is before us to welcome it, it will certainly provide better protection for authors, performers, publishers, portals, or creative and cultural industries. It is a good prerequisite that even after this Covid crisis this particular industry which, after that, can be better recovered, which is certainly the goal of this law. My question, however, is second. So it is often heard in public space that this law will even have an impact on us ordinary citizens, so I who am not from that part of the industry at all. Can you explain a little bit here, they're really going to have an impact on any of our citizens, here, that's my question for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31739	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31740	Every law we make in this House has some effect on all our citizens, and when we propose laws that we are now in a position to propose them, and you who support them or your critics sometimes don't support them, I think that it's always a common goal for us all to contribute. It will primarily contribute to better legal certainty for all those who exercise their material or moral rights on the market of copyright and related rights. In this way, it will enable the development of our cultural and creative industry, some direct impact on the individual citizen, I would firstly see it through this liberalisation of the use of copyright for educational and scientific purposes, which is very important for a large number of our citizens, from students to older ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31741	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31742	Thank you, Mr. President, I welcome the openness you've shown to listen to the proposals in this debate, but I think we can all agree that we have at least one unfair situation in some segments right now. For example. If a man writes an author's article, an analysis, a comment in the paper, he will get from that publisher some compensation, but later other portals or large digital platforms will transfer it, they will make a living on it, and the author will have nothing of it, and now with this law really creates one framework to correct this injustice. Clearly, you can always improve a particular model, but first you have to suggest something. I think it's also the meaning of this debate and the importance of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31743	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31744	Thank you for this comment and for this replica, indeed, because it was important for this issue to be regulated by the directive because objectively and realistically, Croatia with its market of 4 thousand people, it would be difficult for any holder or collective organisation to achieve some step towards global platforms in protecting our authors and other holders of related rights. The directive here, on behalf of all EU Member States, has actually set up a framework that now allows us a certain level of protection, but also confirms why it is important to safeguard collective organisations and preserve the model of collective rights because once again an individual is a journalist, author, performer would be very difficult to achieve anything in relation to global platforms, so here I hope that the result will be what we all want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31745	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31746	Dear Minister, we had a debate there at the beginning of the 12th month on the board, and since then we have received a lot of correspondence and remarks from both directors and music artists, a letter came from Google. Since it's been two months, my first question is whether or not you've already cooperated with these people who have made observations and have been able to agree on your views and theirs? And the second question is about the directors of theatre performances, given that they were not appointed as authors in this bill, were you able to bring it into line with them, was that what caused them great dissatisfaction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31747	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31748	The director is, in any case, the author, but this is another question, so the way compensation is done and there is also the difference between film directors and theatre directors, but it usually depends on the economy itself, the way in which one part of the creation is monetized. Therefore, the issue of theatre performance is directly related to performance, by tickets, with contracts reached on one side for the act itself, and the other for exploitation in each individual theatre performance, and in the case of the film, that part actually takes much longer and much different ways. On your direct question, we continue the talks, but we have told everyone that we will wait for this debate as well. and then join the final. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31749	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31750	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I would like to point out one fact and to apostrophe that I absolutely support your efforts in the adoption of this law in a way that is transparent and inclusive of all stakeholders interested in this debate. It's a complex law, the biggest challenge, of course, is in this story about the performer and the discographer who caused the most controversy. And here I want to thank you for giving you the opportunity and for holding the thematic session of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, where we will invite and invite and performers and then find the best solution that will enter after the second reading into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31751	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31752	Thank you. I think that's a good initiative. It is not for the crazy person in the recital of the directive to have a particularly prominent Fragile position of the performers and is directed towards Member States to find a way of fair compensation, so I believe that any debate in this direction will be useful and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31753	Now it's my colleague Katicic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31754	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. Well, here he finally saw the light of day and the new copyright law and related rights. I think it is one of the essential features for further improving one of today's most inclusive industries, and this includes the creative industry that Croatia is relatively good at. So I ask you an additional clarification, perhaps a question. What are concrete benefits in the part of the additional empowerment of the fair fee of the author, and when we talk about authors, I mean not only the biographers but also other authors from the performers, writers, painters, sculptors, architects compared to previous legal solutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31755	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31756	Well, there's a lot of elements, so that's what I've talked about in these introductory words. On the one hand, there may be a need to say a better or more detailed arrangement and improvement of the collective protection system that is very important for certain areas. Second, more precise definition of certain provisions concerning the very definition of the copyright fee. However, what you mentioned, and I refer to the question of relations between theatre or film directors, is indeed a big difference in the way in which the rights and methods of generating income for this fee depend on a particular segment of the cultural or creative industry. In other words, while music authors and performers are indeed to the most extent on the commercial market, when you look at, say, writers there, the full amount of compensation is being taken over by the state, so it is very difficult to compare with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31757	Thank you. Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, from the analysis of the proposal, therefore this law, shows that in fact this bill ensures stronger protection of creative industries on the Internet, stronger and better protection of both authors and performers and publishers and internet portals. There are so many replicas that show that there is a need to further edit the relationship between the authors and the biographers related, the performers and the biographies related to the fair compensation. However, it should be stressed that this law also provides a sustainable framework for small creative industries such as Croatia's creative industry, so it protects and promotes both creators and authors, but also pluralism of the media, and in this sense I think it is necessary to stress that this law ultimately strengthens the survival of national culture, hence Croatian national culture in the global digital world.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31759	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31760	I agree with what you said and I think it's actually good that in the same day we will also discuss the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Law on Electronic Media because there is a lot of overlapping and in fact both texts are in the first place going towards preserving the sustainability of the national, cultural and creative industry and setting up a specific framework in which we will be able to implement regulations to protect those rights holders and publishers on that big global market. This is indeed a particular challenge for small, numerically small peoples, numerically small cultures and fragile markets that are very difficult to resist in this global, global market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31761	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31762	I thank President HS. Dear Minister, I believe you've put forth a lot of effort to get us on the bench here to get this bill and I hope after all that you'll feel the satisfaction of dealing with such complex and demanding material. My question is, now and there's a dispute between performers and recordshops since technology and audio transmission have changed, and how does it plan to make everyone happy? And second question, how long will it take us to bring Croatian legislation in line with the EU acquis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31763	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31764	Thank you. Many efforts have been made especially by my co-workers, colleagues in the state administration, but all the representatives from all the associations who participated in the preparation of this law, and you have well pointed out exactly that change in technology has brought about these disorders. It should be pointed out here when it comes to this relationship between discographers and performers that they actually have very well defined relationships in the analogue world, but the problem has emerged by introducing a new business model which, I would say, is neither an innovation nor any specific Croatian model, so this new business model has brought global platforms and in this new business model, there has actually been a threat to certain segments of national cultural and creative industries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31765	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31766	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This law is for the general public when we say it then it's something that's imaginary and people don't see it as something that's very important. And primarily in the content of the law when it is seen as being both related to computer programs and precisely architectural works and everything else that is both contained and creative industry. What I would like to point out is that it is really important to do order because it was not well enough arranged, and when we see how much, how much of the share of employees, how much of the impact on GDP, how our countries and the EU countries are, then I think it is very important and that the public must know what it is, how it reflects in fact on the whole economy. :
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31767	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31768	You have well pointed out, truly modern economies are largely based on different industries based on copyright, they are characterized by innovation and creativity. As I have initially said in relation to some other branches of our economy, the results in exporting services to cultural and creative industries position us much more on these scales than we are objectively able to observe the whole of our economy and it is really important for the number of small countries to have such systems as to ensure that our creators, authors and all other holders of related rights on our market can have such a favourable framework to stay here, and then they place their services and exports globally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31769	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31770	Thank you. Minister Obuljen Koržinek, in the Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market, the text requires, in many places, the protection of authors and performers and mentioning them almost always together. It explicitly lists their actually poor negotiating position, and now I'm interested in that, say, Art. 142. which refers to collective agreements between representative artists' associations and phonogram producers end in this way "and the flat-rate amount can be a proportionate fee", the truth is added, but this should not be a rule. We really believe that there should be an indecisive fee and that it should be determined, of course, to balance the percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31771	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31772	As we all know the question of copyright and the implementation of copyright is a matter of private law, and I have already pointed out that, in the analogue economy, the relationship between the discographers and the performers was in such a way arranged by quality collective agreements with which both sides and other stakeholders of the market were satisfied. The disorder occurred in a digital environment, and art. 142, and then 43 and 144, they actually laid one good basis for reaching agreement through a collective agreement between these two associations representing rightholders on these principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31773	My fellow Witness, here you go. We'll do it now, we'll do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31774	Dear Minister, because of the great economic importance stemming from this law, so also for business entities, but also for authors, so the author's income, and also the incomes of their families, I would just like to say that I feel that you still need to consult further. Of course, you've been consulting so far, of course, it's not possible for everyone, it's not possible to please everyone, but we can see the e-mail that went towards the representatives' clubs. Therefore, because of the exceptional importance for the economy, it would be good to once again, to carry out further consultations with all stakeholders, so that it would mean the law itself, when adopted as fair as possible and has the best consequences for the Croatian economy and for all participants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31775	Thank you. As I have said many times and in the opening statement, and in these replicas, we are open to all proposals that will improve the text of this law. I believe everyone's intentions are the same. I would just point out, here we're talking about achieving private rights and actually, in order for someone else to get, someone else has to give in a little bit, and there's one balance that needs to be found, it's not always easy to find, and that's why it's always better to have a solution when rightholders agree on the concept between themselves and then enter it into the law, but to impose something. However, if there is no agreement, then, of course, the legislator will have to strengthen the direction we consider to be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31776	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31777	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. 30 years after the appearance of a network called the Internet, 20 years after Nebster appeared, we're discussing this and that's good. The state is late, you know, I know, that there is a solution to the CERP by which the largest Croatian discographer does not have the right to a catalogue available until 1993, it belongs to the state and the state therefore suffers direct damage from several million kunas each year. On that point, you're not doing anything at all. Both you and I know that Croatian performers in the digital environment are getting nothing and we are in a hurry, we are the first parliament in Europe to discuss this. The Spanish have some solutions, the Germans are looking for a solution to the User Generated Content and will extend the adoption of this directive. Tell me, do you know how many Croatian performers, especially those following them get from the discographers based on positive laws and how much they get of this law? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31778	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31779	First of all, as far as I'm concerned, thank you for these comments, as far as CERRP is concerned, and you know there's a complaint here, so the ministry can't do anything until it's settled in court cases. So, it's about the catalog of Croatia Records, and as far as the performer is concerned, we won't be in a hurry, we'll pass this law when the conditions are obtained, however, and you know how complex it is because you were the president of the record association. So you were in a position to personally make certain steps, right at the moment when principles were put in place to protect the rights of performers and biographers on the Internet. I guess that's when, as a discographer, you represented their interests because you're both both a performer and a biographer, So your offered solution will surely [[Intruder: Thank you.]] be interesting. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31780	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31781	Yes, thank you very much, the Rules of Procedure have been injured by several points, 238, 236. So I'm calling for my 30 seconds, so you can give me a heads-up. It is not true, the CERP's solution is a solution based on which no appeal is possible and the court dispute cannot delay the process. It was only your decision, don't deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31782	Comrade Škoro, you are being warned. Don't complain now when you get a warning and say that I gave you as Vice-President of the Parliament which the Rules of Procedure, you did this on purpose, I believe you know the Rules of Procedure, but you deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Now it's time for my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31783	Your Honors Minister. The intensity and the main principle of the directive that we have just discussed 2019/790 is the principle of appropriate and proportionate, i.e. appropriate compensation for each, and in particular the digital use of certain recordings. That would mean a fair balance between rights and interests. If we consider that each video contains 3 rights, which is copyrighted, that's what we call it, a phonogram or a phonogram producer's or 3rd right of the performer's. Do you think that the principle of justice is satisfied if we have a situation where the author gets 12% of the income, where publishers or discographers get more than 50%, and the main performers, if they are lucky, 5%, if they are not 0%, are the same as auxiliary musicians. Do you consider that by respecting the principle appropriate appropriate exchanges... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31784	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31785	Thank you for this comment, I have repeated several times, and I will repeat all day long as the debate takes place. The intention of the bill is to find a sustainable and fair framework. In relation to what the current law provides, this law offers a significant step forward and points to principles between representative contractors' associations and bisographers, on which they must sign a collective contract, to conclude a collective agreement. I stress for authors, such regulations, such provisions do not exist, so they still have a record deal. So there was an anomaly here, it happened globally, it was an attempt in 2014 to adopt a directive on mandatory collective bargaining, and unfortunately it was not adopted, and we now have to look for a solution that will really be fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31786	Thank you. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31787	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ma'am. Minister. So the proposed law introduces provisions that provide assumptions like you said about fair compensation to authors and performers. I don't know if you've seen it, but in 2019 statistics say that the right to public statement is represented in 87.6%, that mechanical reproduction is 3.2%, that digital law is 2.2% of that foreign law from abroad to 7.11%. Do you think that it is justly distributed, percentages, in creation and as it is said, some are always deprived of their rights stemming from the law that was previously in force? Is this law really going to be a fair distribution of the funds and compensations that belong to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31788	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31789	It's not a good situation now. So, if good were not to discuss it so much and ask for it, it is our obligation to find a solution that will provide just compensation. It's not a good situation now. Many performers have no contracts, some have contracts, some have no digital contracts, on the other hand, in Croatia, we were, let's say, later on, and these large services later entered Croatia, but they entered under conditions obviously in good faith, believing that the discographers had the rights to all the performers. This is a matter that needs to be settled, I must mention that a ongoing court dispute has been brought about, and therefore we have made sure that we take into account these circumstances, so the dispute has been initiated by the performers and they are awaiting the resolution of the dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31790	Thank you. My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31791	Your Honor, ma'am. Ministers, in this proposal of the law, it was left with a clear and valuable public and non-profit role of libraries and heritage institutions, especially in the part of the award for reproduction or repositories of buildings, and does not interfere with commercial activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31792	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31793	Thank you for this comment. I don't think that you were in the final meeting of the Parliament, but two years ago, we passed a new Law on libraries and the status of libraries as public institutions, and their status was governed by this law, so this is not the subject of copyright, and then our law, for all cultural heritage institutions and libraries, allows for a much more liberal treatment of all rights and for the further use of all the contents that are otherwise copyrighted, but in the case of use in heritage institutions, so also in libraries, but I told the institutes, colleges, this regime is significantly liberalised and this is something that Croatia has firmly advocated in the negotiations on the directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31794	Coli Zekanovic is not present, so he loses his right to speak and his last replica, respected counterpart Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31795	Thank you. In general, this bill does not in any way strengthen the freedom of entrepreneurship in these creative industries but, contrary to the EU principles, strengthens this ZAMP collective organisation again. In a way, it seems that ZAMP becomes like they would tell me in IT, single point of fail, which will happen when that system collapses, are we going to do something like Agrokora, then will the authors stay on edge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31796	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31797	Thank you for your comment, although I must admit that I don't understand it, where you read in this law to go in this direction, so there are a whole series of collective organisations, one organization may be a little more present in the media than others, but as I said, each group of copyright holders has its own collective organization, in fact, a large number of them have been there for the last years if they can say, started and organised better on the global market, especially the digital market, it's very difficult for a single rightholder to exercise his rights. It is also difficult for collective organisations in small countries but certainly better and easier and fairer to make up for the authors and other holders of related rights if collective organisations negotiate for them for more stakeholders than they do as individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31798	Thank you. I thank the minister. You get to the place, we'll move on now. So I ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take the floor? Mr Pavić, Vice-President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31799	The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 12 November 2020. In the opening statement of the Minister of Culture and Media, which was almost the same on the board, we all heard what they wanted to achieve by law. In a discussion on the board with other discussions from other topics that you have already touched here today in your replicas, the need to modernise the legal framework and adapt it to the digital society in which we live has been confirmed. Due to the specificity of the moment in which the law is being amended, at the time of the COVID-19 disease epidemic, part of the debate was focused on the online teaching and involvement of teachers, teachers and professors who they believe should be additionally rewarded for their contribution to improving online teaching, creating digital content but that it is difficult to distinguish what is involved in teaching materials and what is added value with that it should certainly account for what is being placed on the web pages to be in coordination with the Ministry of Science and Education. In particular, attention has been paid to a large number of remarks made in the public debate, especially in the field of film and music. The members of the board believe that the authors will be satisfied with the proposed law but the satisfaction of the other participants who participated in the work should be further worked out. The members of the Committee doubted whether there was sufficient and proper protection of computer programmes and databases, but it was said that the European Commission's 2021 programme and revision of the directive governing the protection of databases related to the current debate on the digital age and treatment of digital data and expected that a debate on the modernisation of data protection and databases would begin in 2021 and in general on the different treatment of data in the digital economy. After the debate, the board decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions by a majority of votes with 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. First, the proposal for a law on copyright and related rights and secondly, all opinions, objections and proposals presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31800	Thank you, too. After this, I will open the debate and we will begin to discuss the clubs of representatives, the first is the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and the Honored counterpart of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31801	Dear Minister, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm talking about copyright and related rights, and it's mostly about digital rights, meaning digital rights or the placement of these content on these new networks, whether it's Youtube, Facebook, Reddit, Tick-Tok, Instagram, Twitter, it doesn't matter. But what is important is that all these providers, service providers for these digital content, have no headquarters in Croatia, none of them. Whether it's America, Ireland, V. Britain, the Netherlands, or you don't really know where the headquarters is or where these companies are registered in the first place. And now hypothetically, I take today, steal someone's author's work, some song by Mr. Skora, and I make a living on it, for example. Some money on their channels, on their social networks and I will be, I can be sanctioned, whether, in accordance with this law or not, I can't topic, or that money should be given to the author. But if someone in Germany, Nigeria, Latin America, or even the owner of that platform, does there exist an institute that forces this man to make up for his use of his authorial work? The answer is no. So this law applies exclusively to people who are related to the OIB, citizenship, birth, to our country of Croatia and everyone else can do whatever they want, absolutely whatever they want, right? There's no way we can sanction them. No way. So the key question is, and it's a question of all questions, are you as a ministry, are you as a government, is Andrej Plenkovic aware that he does not control the media space, not in terms of control, he controls how he needs political, so he will bring people who suit him, if he does not respond, he will not bring. That he doesn't control at all financially about these things, about hate speech, space, virtual, means that virtual space, the space of social networks because all these companies have their seats, who knows where. And they can do whatever they want today. I'll tell you a very nice example and that's a Free Praljak. Today if you publish and write Free Praljak on social networks, e.g. on your Facebook page, I don't know if you have a minister or any other channel or publish his picture, your profile will automatically be blocked and these profiles cost several hundred thousand kunas, depending on how many followers he has. I am also interested in whether the Croatian law and what Croatian law prohibits the name and name of Slobodan Praljak? What Croatian law? You tell me, Minister, what law? So you're gonna control something and you're not controlling it. You're controlling a man in Ireland. Or Germany. So we're not in control, we're talking about some law, copyright and related rights, and control is not ours at all. Someone can also go from left to HDZ and agree that Slobodan Praljak is not mentioned in Croatian virtual space. But why would someone steal the songs of our Croatian performers and publish them and use them, earn them somewhere else and not pay them to the authors? I don't know if you get the point of the whole story. So this is all pointless until you sit down with the owners, with the directors of these means service providers in virtual space. Because you will only control then and natural and legal persons in Croatia while everyone in the world will be able to do whatever they want. Look, this is a very, very complex topic and I don't know if you ministers and Andrej Plenkovic realize the power of these social networks and you've completely let it out of your hands. Social networks today decide elections, change authorities, and will have a growing and greater impact. And we're dealing with a law that will control a small man in Croatia and we're running this one platform platform that knows who. And another thing, here's a specific one object, one remark. So, Minister, you're walking down the street on your Dubrovnik, here was the Festa of St. Vlaha and the photographer comes, no, no, it doesn't matter who, it doesn't have to be a photographer, it can be a colleague with a cell phone, it takes pictures of you and it has its own portal and he publishes that photo and puts on a bad title, bad equipment, and it does you harm. And you use that same photo on your social networks and you say, defend yourself against that title and that equipment there and pay the fine because you used the photo that he legally took of you. Is that, isn't that a little illogical? So that someone can take a picture of you a thousand times and do whatever they want with your photo, and at the time that you're here, because you're on it, use it for some purpose, you're in violation. So this is the one thing that needs to be solved. I think, if the content of a piece is concrete I'm going to say here, photos, a particular person, I think that this particular person should be able to use that photo without compensation. That's the most logical thing for me, here, you put it on yourself as a single remark so try to change it. And here I am, not going to use it all the time, but I will repeat again, the key question that the Croatian state must start to take care of who manages Croatian virtual space, it is not Croatian companies, but who knows where they are doing whatever they want and I said a nice example of Free Praljka so here, try to change it, when the next anniversary is Free Praljak, when thousands of Croats put his picture on the Internet, so that their profiles are not blocked, or that they can still communicate on social networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31802	Now we'll go to another debate. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31803	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law is a challenge for Croatia, for a new era, to move from analogue to digital times and simply, European directives that regulate or set certain principles towards which it would be desirable for Member States to behave in the digital era is what I must transpose into national legislation. We've reached out to the new law-making mechanism, we haven't gone into any changes or additions, I support. It contains the fact that, from previous directives, they had to be harmonised in this national legislation or transposed into this 15 EU Parliament and Council Directive '93. until 2019, of which 2 are specifically the subject of these amendments, but the new law and two EU Parliament and Council Regulations of 2017, but also to bring some extent into line the existing legislative framework with the constant changes that occur at an incredible speed in the digital world, if possible, before them. Now, I've been in the House for five years, and there are very rare cases of this number of objections, suggestions, 727 comments on page 419. That also speaks a lot about this bill. A lot and too much. So you need to process and that's what comes from the content of this material, which is that you need to have a lot of open questions, that you need additional consultations, that you need to include the profession and listen to all relevant participants and find, if possible, optimal solutions in which no profession will feel cut off or underestimated. However, I fear that if we take into account that we have here only, or even only 300 comments or remarks, where performers or musicians by name and last name claim that, let's say, they have never signed a contract with the discographers that waives the fees for the rights of performers of the Internet. digital broadcasting, but never at the same time received any compensation for using their videos on Internet services, then actually, and if we take into account that in that part of the draft to the bill that you have come before us there are no important facts, or that you have ignored a good part of these remarks, then we have a problem and we need to make an additional effort between the first and second readings. Without the intention of taking sides, someone here has said, there are various interests to be reconciled. Yeah. But in a way that everyone is equally content and equally dissatisfied. Not that one part of dissatisfaction actually dominates only one profession, or one side. In that case, it means that we have not achieved the effect, we can never all be equally satisfied, but it is not good to cancel one profession that it really feels humiliated, annulled and abolished through a certain bill. So much more is not a matter of our choice than what the EU expects of us, or what it has set as a principle through the 2019 Directives that we must apply in this law. So let's go to the head specifically now for the contents of this part. So, EU Directive 790/2019, I stress, quote, Member States must ensure that, if the artist's author licenses or transfers his exclusive rights to exploit his or her actions or other protection cases, they have the right to receive adequate and proportionate compensation. A corresponding and proportionate fee, what would that mean? We are exposed today to Youtube, Google, Deezer, Apple Play, meaning all these digital platforms on which we can listen or consume music. We don't buy it, it's not the product we buy, so that video isn't bought because it doesn't change the owner and it doesn't have a single price. He was kind of rented as a book in the library, while your membership fee lasts, so much you can consume a particular product. Now, if there are three rights represented in every video, and that's the copyright that's owned by the author, we're talking about intellectual property, creative, whatever you want, the second right of the performer and the third right of the manufacturer of phonograms, in this case we often recognize it as discographers, then I don't have to be an expert in copyright to realize that something is wrong if the videos are spinning on the Internet, if the rights are paid, those three rights, and if one group, just one of these three, means by the author, by the discographer and by the performer, there's nothing. Then this does not mean a fair allocation of compensation in accordance with all three rights, but it means the domination of one related right over other rights and that is not the intensity of the EU directive. It's not normal for more than 50% of the fees or revenues when we subtract that part of the tax, when we subtract what the platform takes from the profits, that's about 20% of the taxes, here the tax is just over 10%, when we take this part that's distributed to these three rights, it's not normal for the discographers to have more than 50%, that the authors have 12% of that income and that the performers have 0 to 5. And that's what those lucky people who are lucky to sign contracts, which is probably according to some surveys 5%, have some benefit from what their work is about on the Internet, the others have 0, which is the main performers, which is very often we don't see because if someone is recognized in some group or any orchestra or whether it's jazz, classical music or some other kind of music, so it's not the singer or soloist who is the most recognizable, who plays all the instruments that actually dominates the entire space, it becomes me, the invisible workers, it's not the invisible workers, but this law makes one good part of the artists invisible and the workers who simply don't want to protect them through this law, to ensure that they're their own contribution, creativity, so if you want to do, that they're also part of creative intellectual property, that they'll benefit from some way and to collect it. That's not normal. So much more so that when the same video is rotated for example, colloquially on radio or television stations, in which case all three copyrights are adequately rewarded, and the performer, both the author and the publisher, no one here advocates the abolition of any right or demeaning of a right rather than simply equal and just distribution. Through this law are the mechanisms which have shown themselves in France that they are not good and are already going to be audited and what should be seriously considered between the first and second readings is a mechanism of irrevocable compensation through collective rights organizations because in this law it is the same right or mechanism applied to relations between publishers and journalists, to relations between audiovisual producers and authors and the same right and the same mechanism is used and what I have told you in fact in distribution on radio and television stations but also in renting sound carriers where you have ratios 33:33:33. all equally of rentals, all have equal benefits and every right is equally respected and equally charged by distribution. There's no reason why in this law it wouldn't be like that. This does not mean denying digital society, stopping certain changes, but means an orderly society in which everyone will be protected and where creativity, art will be respected, so if you want the intellectual property of each individual who has made his contribution, who is involved in the creation of a work of art. I ask you, Minister, that between the first reading and the second reading, you make us happy in a way that you still see once again what the public debate is trying to suggest to you, I think that the intentions are not dishonest, no one will remain without anything but let us begin to edit society if we are already a member of the EU, let's act this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31804	He will now address on behalf of the proposing respected Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek. Before that, only two notices that you can plan time. So, today, after the debate on the Law on Electronic Media, we will put into debate the report of the mandate-immunity committee on the replacement of MPs as well as the Report of the Committee on Selection and Designation, as well as the replacement of committees. I expect it'll take a very short time, so it won't take us much time. And the other important thing is tomorrow, so let's go to the professor's memorial service. We'll have Miroslav Tudjman at 10 o'clock, but for epidemiological reasons, we'll have her here at the grand council, and besides that, the Vice President of the Parliament has expressed the desire for everyone to participate in the ceremony so we can't even secure the presidency, and then we'll have a memorial here at the Grand Hall at 10 and at 10, 45 will begin the plenary session as we announced with the agenda point. Here you go, Minister, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31805	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am. Vice-President, I asked to take the floor on behalf of the promoter to remind you that the SDP voted against the directive, so your MEPs voted against the directive, and you did not want to advocate for the performers, we had a series of public debates in Croatia, we wanted all Croatian representatives to support the directive, and you were against it. And now you say look, consider, if we'd listened to all the other platforms and I think it's important to make excuses. So you mentioned that there were 797 contars that we ignored them and that we didn't do anything, which is simply not true. Decision 142, 143, 144, the articles that are now in the law were not in the text that went to the public debate, so we had the text at the public debate, then we made a promotion after the public debate, and we expect it to improve until the second reading, and I have said it several times. However, it is not good to mention percentages, and I answered because we will have a long debate, not to mention the percentages that are not in the law. Say look what the French are doing. We are in constant contact with the French minister, with their ministry, with other ministries seeking solutions and we will find a solution to the second reading. However, I really must visit the musicians have prayed for your support in the European Parliament, and you voted against them then and did not want to advocate it. It is good that you too have realized that our performers deserve protection and I believe that through this debate and through another reading we will come up with some solution that we will be able to adopt by consensus and that will benefit them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31806	Here's a replica of my colleague, Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31807	Well, honestly, as far as I've heard, there's been a lot of involvement here by colleague Tomasic, and I really didn't have that information about how our MPs voted in the European Parliament. However, as you said, it does not change the fact that we now need to implement this directive and that we should implement it on the principles of reciprocity and justice, which your bill certainly is not. You say you went on, you have a new article. 142 to 144, which is where you're actually going towards collective bargaining. However, you are setting up a relationship, a relationship between biographers and performers in the frameworks that exist in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in collective bargaining between employees and workers, which is not the case. And thirdly, I'd like you to answer the question why you've given up on your way to the task force meeting. of a Spanish model; and [[Intruder: Thank you]] This one actually opted for French. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31808	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31809	At the outset, I said this was a very complex regulation, and it really needs access. We didn't go from first reading to second reading from Spanish to French model. In Croatia, a Spanish model has never been implemented because it predominates as I was saying that the authors transfer, that the performers transfer all their rights to a collective organisation, and then, therefore, make an indeterminate fee, which is not the case in Croatia. However, it does not matter how you voted in the European Parliament because if there were more countries that represented a stronger determination towards performers, as our MPs, the HDZ representatives did, then perhaps the directive would have been voted in a different way, so do not now argue that you do not know how your representatives voted, and then you should be informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31810	Let's move on. Comrade Voter, now that you're throwing away, you better not say anything. Now it's the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives and two MPs will speak, colleagues Matula and counterpart Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31811	I would like to thank the President, Minister Ouljen Koržinek, with an associate. I am pleased that you are calling for HDZ to have been promoted in the European Parliament and that it has imposed this topic on the protection of performers, here I will say not only copyrights. But why is it the impression and all the people who are talking to us, here's the constant phone ring still or texting, how is it the impression that you are still sided with the discographer, and the discographers are getting money from the provider? A large amount of that money though... A large amount of that money is coming. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] One other paradoxical thing now compared to HRT, you watch out for this amazing story, theater director to make with actors and all the people who need it have quite an experience in themselves and together with artists make a play that finally worked because some of our shows fail at that period to become really performances that go on for years and now that we're going to film that play, imagine this, the play is like 100, 200 times, there's past work, the virtuosity of top artists, when this show comes this morning the film director who's going to shoot it whether it's paradoxically, he's going to look at it, he's going to shoot it with 3 cameras and when it goes on, the film director gets copyright for it, and imagine none of these people get it. How is that possible? Here's what I'm talking about on these examples. I want to make an example of a musician. A musician who worked and played something important cello, let's say, at some summer hit, and that summer hit is, of course, summer hits because people fall in love, young and young on demand, on the one hand, on the one hand and on the one hand, and the provider pays the discographer money, but now they're going to talk to the musician who's in the grip, who's got kids and she's got them for several hundred kunas that she needs right now and she's got rid of her copyright, which is why the whole directive. Minister, I ask you about this, my colleague Bakic will speak the same way, and I would like you to also say that fellow film employees wrote to their colleagues in Europe and that you received two letters from the associations, from FER, and I would like you to talk about it who wonders how you make the laws, for example, but I am saying, this is certainly what my colleague Bakic, who is completely contrary to the directive. What is crucial in this, the key and the whole sense, and that is why you are probably in this progressive direction sure and voting, it is very glad that you were not in this shallow Libertarian, I have nothing against real freedom, but what is the freedom of a woman who has to give up her rights and the future who knows when for what it is for children now she has to give 600, 700 kn and she says "okay". Why is that supposed to be? It means collective bargaining. I agree that this should be balanced, that it is not easy, yes, but I suppose that at that moment you in the Euro Parliament and supported exactly the meaning of collective bargaining, and not what the Liberarians tell us is against entrepreneurs, which our top political philosopher Puhovski would say, entrepreneurs always take, among other things, those who have taken it, are not free to do but have to be taken. We protect us, we introduce a fair percentage for undeniable law because these people are always in an unfavourable position to negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31812	Please stop the time. Now he's going to speak to his colleague Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31813	... Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So this is when we talk about music production, just for a little while to recapitulate, so we support a model in which the law requires that a certain part of the fee be indecisible and that the discographers should share this indecisive part of the money charged on platforms, pay off therefore to the collective organisation for the protection of the rights of performance. As a few of my predecessors today have said, we have a completely analogue solution in art. 162 which speaks of the relationship between newspaper publishers and journalists. Now I'm going to say a few more words about audiovisual production. Later in individual discussions, we will also say something about libraries and scientific research and heritage institutions, although the debates will be individual, and that will be the club's position. So when we talk about audiovisual production, I'd like to say something about an article first. 87, 88 and 89 which speak of primary and secondary rights, i.e. unconditional transfer of rights for 7 years in favour of producers. It is possible and probably necessary for the good of the audiovisual system, for TV publishers to provide a period of free exploitation but it is necessary to reach some collective agreement on the terms of such an arrangement. We therefore propose that the law condition the conclusion of a general agreement of this kind as a minimum, necessary but I stress the necessary condition for possible transfer of rights and not for more than 7 years. Further to Art. In 213, when it comes to collective exercise of law, paragraph 2 of the third indent, audiovisual acts shall be referred to re-emission, the loan shall be referred to as art. In 89, in terms of secondary rights that I was just talking about, so the rights to TV broadcasting according to that article are listed. 89 years of age, however, what is missing, which is not seen here in this article. 213, missing online. You don't see audiovisual works in online traffic like that. video on request, i.e. services offered by internet platforms that are most often global companies based outside Croatia. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In paragraphs 2 and 179, paragraph 1 states that authors also have the right to compensation paid by producers of empty sound carriers, images and text, audio recording and visual recording devices, etc., so sometimes they were whatever they were, audio tape and VHS tape, etc., so such devices are listed, however, are missing. The missing mobile phones are actually smartphones, smart phones that are actually today de facto the main tool in it and we think that it can't go under the rest, it's kind of the rest being mentioned in Art. 178th in paragraph 2, because it is not left but today when I say it primarily, in that position the authors are very well compensated everywhere. And that's why we think right here in this article, and we think that's important to the smart phone. Finally, in Article 313, 303, forgive me, prior to that, in 302, the HRT shall be given great powers to use the broadcasting and distribution of works that were created before 1990, with some symbolic compensation, since these parts are therefore declared culturally well-being. Since 1990, however, it has been only 30 years, much less than production and copyright. This is unfair and the status of these parts should be more justly regulated and copyrighted, or properly rewarded. Article 302. It is important to favour the HRTs, and in 1990 it is not the happiest as a fixed demarcation and this should be carefully considered and corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31814	Thank you. Thank you very much. She appeared again on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31815	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have just missed it before I said that even the members of the Green Left bloc in the European Parliament voted against the directive, so against the performers and authors and actually advocated the platform's views. I think it is important, and I am pleased that our Parliament is represented by different views than those groups voted in Parliament. However, I also took the floor for a few questions that you pointed out that will certainly be reopened in the follow-up debate. As far as mobile devices are concerned, therefore, the general principle in all European directives is a matter of technological neutrality, so if at this point we mention some devices or some means of technological means of transmission of signal content, etc. Then in the meantime, they evolve technological neutrality predominantly that it means that it applies to everything. This issue as regards Croatian radiotelevision if you read the Strategy for Economic Recovery of Cultural and Creative Industrys, which was published in the form of one communication in late December in a similar way, thinks about this wealth of national archives which are not adequately used because of unresolved copyrights, and partly because in that period it is not by accident 1990, a milestone year, because until then the perception of what is property and what is private property and what they have or have no rights was different. This provision of the law should help to regulate the use of the content of a rich archive of Croatian broadcasters, that when it is digitised that it can be put into wide use and that all our citizens can access these rich facilities of public service without restrictions especially on all platforms on request. And I think that this provision should be read in this context and that it will bring a significant enriching of our public space by using the content that at this point because of the inability to regulate copyrights is limited. Of course, a period of 2 years has been set to prejudge that all those who believe that they do not have the right to exercise those rights. Another question will certainly be a lot of discussion about the biographers and the performers, and I think that's good. That's what I was talking about on the board. We're really open to finding the best solution. However, when it comes to imposing compulsory collective implementation, it would mean that for that part of the contractors who have arranged contracts and who are satisfied with these contracts, and part of it is, in fact, that we make it impossible for them to continue to consume those contracts. So there's a big difference if you have a compulsory collective then it's compulsory for everyone and then it's one principle and then it's the principle that we have as often stated by that Spanish example. But in Croatia, we have the situation of one part of the performers who are satisfied. One part of the performers who are dissatisfied and I would say one part of the performers who are rightly bitter because they have no rights whatsoever. And from that situation, we must find a solution that will make it possible for one to do no wrong to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31816	Stay Ministers because we have three replicas. The first is Comrade Matula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31817	Thank you. Dear Ministers, when mentioning the Green Left Bloc in the Europarliament, it should be taken into account that, among other things, a large part of the people who are in these parties and their representatives are the people who have founded their own timely pirate parties. If you remember in protection and piracy and everything, there was that idea. However, what we insist on, you have just mentioned from Spain and 6 countries that have a similar way of regulating the questions of executive rights, or an indecisive part of these performance rights. And here's the UK that just came out here, so check out the British Parliament for musicians, and what about the British rock and pop that their musicians, their authors support the performers in order to get those rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31818	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31819	We have always advocated the rights of the performer and we continue to advocate, and I have also stressed that the parties to the green-left bloc in Croatia represent interests which, in the fanvor of the performers, were not acting in the European Parliament and should be said, because that was more support perhaps the directive would have looked different. It now looks what it looks like, it does not have in the provisions of the directive anything about performers, unfortunately, it is mentioned in the recital, so in the opening provisions, but not in the way of ambition. I will remind those who followed the negotiations, Croatia was one of the most active states precisely thanks to the engagement of our government, several times we joined countries that blocked the continuation of negotiations and many good solutions were precisely by trying our political option, and yours was against it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31820	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31821	Thank you very much. So I would just like to point out that this is about the minister being possibly representatives of the green-left bloc who are not Croatian representatives of the green-left bloc, that's all. I don't think this kind of conversation is leading us anywhere, and I think we're all going to get in a lot of trouble, and maybe you and the larger ones, if we mention how the representatives of your related parties voted in any other matter. So much for that. And as for therefore the exclusive rights of HRT and its archives, it is of course a welcome institute only needs to be much more carefully determined. In 1990, it's not illogical, but it's not the happiest. On the other hand, life didn't stop in 1990, and it needs to be much more subtle when there's a limit so we don't have unnatural crossings. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31822	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31823	Thank you. Those who know how I perform in the assembly know that I am always at peace and I listen with respect to all the clubs, I have responded to the statements of the Vice President and to the statements of Mr. MPs simply because it has been put on our minds that we do not care about performers. I had a need to remind myself that there was a course of negotiations on the directive which is not irrelevant, because initially I also said several times in my address that a number of small states on a global scale, and that Mr. Sovereignist's representative could probably interpret something in his own style, a number of small states and small creative industries would have a hard time fighting for their positions if they did not have a wider international framework, which is why the directive was so important, and therefore we fought for it personally, but also as a member of the HDZ, I wish she had gone a little further into the protection of the authors. The performer could do the same to you, or yours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] My colleagues help. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31824	And the last replica, colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31825	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, I think this part that you have highlighted and that we are stressing in the law is very important. We have a history that we have, in 1990, we remember from the moment Croatia gained its independence and everything else, but in 1990, it had significant consequences, and I'm talking about the economy in general, the way we are. We came out of one party into something else, we had only HRT then and we had nothing else and we blindly believed or it was at the level of Yugoslavia to define. This archive is extremely important, it is extremely important to be available to everyone, especially because today, of course, we have some other television, and I'm sure that one quality debate and where television should go in the first place, who needs to deal with, who's what, and this is one of the things that's really good at all. The law that helps us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31826	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31827	Thank you. We will listen carefully to all the suggestions and, of course, to the openness of this article, it is important to understand that the intention is indeed to make more valuable content available to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31828	Thank you, Minister. We will now continue the debates of clubs, in turn the Club of Representatives of the Most and the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31829	I think we missed the debate, so I'm going to do something partly unusual, side by side with the minister. It is, in fact, a law that is of great importance, if not crucial to both our present and our future. In that sense, I really support the legislator's intentions to take into account after, say, after so much time, that this was not addressed to me, to deal with this problem and try to create a legislative framework that would respond to the challenges of modern times, to finding authors in the digital environment. In the conclusion of this address, I will say something about what challenges we have overlooked and where we might be first in identifying new copyrights and creating an appropriate legislative framework. But first, I'm going to explain to you why, in some ways, I'm taking sides with the minister. What's the problem? So here we are talking about the rights of the performer and in this sense I support all the efforts of the opposition MPs and I join them to find an appropriate framework that will evaluate the rights of the performer within this law. But the problem of the rights of the performer is not the problem of this legislator, it is our common problem, it is a problem that we have historically inherited by watching how we have experienced the performers in the first place and how their role has changed in the digital environment. I will remind you that unlike copyrights that have been recognized for centuries or at least, the rights of performers as such were not initially valued because the performer simply came to the field and was paid for his work. It is only later that the rights of the performer are recognised as equal rights so that today we come into a situation that, given the specific role of the performer, we do not recognize at all that their work may be fundamental, at least the way we recognize the author's work, and that it should be valued in the digital environment. They are in a particularly invisible situation because unlike authors, and unlike publishing houses or discographers, they cannot charge for their work. And now what happened here? We do not recognize that performers do not do that part of the material and work are largely responsible for a certain song. However, we recognize the discographers whose mode of operation has changed considerably, who no longer have such a cost of work, as still equally valuable, as crucial in the application of the right to a particular video. And it takes our joint effort to inherit something that we have historically inherited as discrimination, to overvalue all values and place things in their place. In this sense, I propose that we be constructive and I believe that the legislator can also find a way to do what is the fundamental task of every law, and that is not only to create a new ideal framework of action but also to take reality into account and correct existing inequalities. And the existing inequalities are what most performers have come up with and which is why they are protesting and in this legislative framework because they don't find any kind of enforcement of caring for them themselves, it's the fact that they don't even know how much money they're getting from that digital environment, they get a fixed fee, they don't know any songs, they don't know any rights, they just get some amounts, when they're some fixed amounts without the details of which they're allotted, they can be manipulated, and then we have a situation where the performers are unhappy. So, as far as the performer is concerned, I'm going to sum up this debate, as far as I'm concerned, that's two questions. One question is the right of the performer as such and how we will find an appropriate legislative framework that will finally correct the historical injustice and respect the equality of the rights of the performer and the other is the question in which these rights should be realised. Is this through some kind of collective conduct or individuality to individual publishing houses? So these are issues that we need to resolve and I believe that in this sense we can find the possibility of a common agreement and that these opposition performances will be taken into account when it comes to the rules of the performers. I would also like to remind myself that the publishers are also rebelling that they are not completely satisfied with this bill because by Article. In 213 they have the opposite remark, so they are bothered that the authors of certain rights can only exercise collectively. On the other hand, we have journalists who also insist on collectiveism. All these professions are specific or all of these rights, but it should also be borne in mind that behind these professions and individuals who want equal treatment and who ask legitimate questions why some of them appear in the protection of their rights are exclusively collective while others are allowed individuality or even thus, depending on their interpretation, in the case of the performer, are discriminated against by many remarks. The second thing I want to talk about concerns the rights of journalists, or the question of what is prescribed. In 96, the employer acquires exclusive copyright, property and ina rights as prescribed in certain paragraphs of the law to the work that occurred in this working relationship. It seems to me that someone who is deeply related to the written word, who himself worked as a journalist, as a columnist, that the written text is one of the most neglected and underrated forms of authoring work that exist, especially this written one, we can say the publicist text. I think that such a provision of the law is not good and does not respect the specific often exaggerated position of journalists who work largely as freelancers, greatly alter their working environment but only for which they always remain tied and what is some kind of their portfolio that is not recognized is their text. These texts later, if we are lucky, become books and these books are equally valuable and equal to literary and artistic expressions if they are quality columns such as some other recognized works of authorship. I therefore think that a more appropriate legislative framework should be created that would allow authors of such texts to enjoy the rights that they are not exclusively linked to employers' rights in whose environment such work is created. As far as the challenge of a new time is concerned, that's the part with which I would like to conclude copyright. The legislator is that it is a law we have long been waiting for and it has been a long time since it was passed, recognised a problem. The problem of the publisher in case of the so-called Content aggregates such as Google News are used in their publication of informational publications in which publishers invest and earn from them without sharing with publishers or at least not in the appropriate amount of financial gains acquired as well as in other cases which have a negative impact on the return of investments in publishing activities. Likewise, if we look at the reasoning of the law and I would like to remind you of these directives that have been called, so we have come down to the debate on who is for what it has voted for, which I think is unnecessary because now we can really create a legislative framework in which we will all find a consensus on issues beyond our partual party interests and regarding copyright protection, and we have co-creation with the directive, now the question may be the one in which we are specifically responsible for what is in them and then we use them to implement them, or we have an obligation to implement them in our legislative framework. So, at the expense of what I said earlier, it is also about editing the use of copyright or related rights protected by content providers of content sharing services via the Internet. So what are these two provisions and what has the legislator recognised, what remains to be our question? We recognized the fact that, for example, something published in Morning, Evening, News, People.hr, wherever you want to be later taken on these digital platforms and shared without publishers getting any compensation. But we did not recognize the fact that today's column is becoming a problem of modern times, and that is the fact that we are all increasingly performing as authors on these digital platforms, that today the columns are being written on Facebook, for example, and that, without any compensation, they are being transferred to these same publishers for whose rights we are now fighting for. So, the morning will publish your column on Facebook without any compensation. We didn't even recognize ourselves as authors whose authorial work changed in the digital environment. I'm talking here specifically about the written text that I consider more competent than these other things, and we haven't really thought about how to regulate our rights, which, of course, precedes that we're not even the authors we used to be, that we're not the authors in the material world alone, but also in the digital world, and that we can be the first to think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31830	Thank you very much. Next is the House of Representatives Club of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative and vice president of the House Miroslav Škoro will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear principal, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have a custom in situations like this when I speak on behalf of the club to write something. But today I've only put on a few tips because I know a lot about this subject, and I think the minister who also knows a lot about this subject, I know very well, and I'm listening here today to everything and everything. But what's true is it's hard to explain to people the difference between material property and immaterial property. It is difficult to explain to people certain things we face often and trying to protect and regulate this Law. I mentioned things in Ms. Secretary's replica, and the Minister told me that I was in charge of the record company, too. Yeah, I'm the author, I'm the performer, I'm the discographer. I had the honour of being at the head of the two largest record houses in Croatia, which were then doing very well. I was in charge, executive director for the reparation of the record society when there were grounds for discographic rights against which they were absolutely all, but we founded them. The process is long and demanding, a process that has lasted in some countries since the 17th century. I know exactly when it was started in Great Britain or England. 1662 because I was born 300 years later. So, for 358 years now, the English have been cutting grass in that area. Not one day, and they're having problems. They wrote about it a lot. Kant wrote about it in... a miracle worker whether there's more than one real printer or one whose work is being exaggerated. And if I don't go too far into historical elaborate now, it's only important to say one thing. Let's not draw parallels here with who voted in the European Parliament because HDZ representatives voted in parliament against the Consumer Protection Act two and three months ago, and I don't know the time limits, mobile guarantees and other things. So there's a vote on how to vote. We are now discussing something very important here, and we are not discussing me, or some of my fellow musicians sitting here in the Parliament, and they are just as unhappy as I am. We are discussing some kind of Ace Homoki that is watching us from Baranja, which played most of the tambourine songs in Croatia. We're discussing Bruno Kovac. We're discussing Ivo Lesic. We are discussing a whole series of top Croatian musicians, top Croatian actors, top Croatian writers, journalists who do not realize any but absolutely none of this I am confidently telling you that I am one of them, the rights in the digital environment of the biographers. But not just because the biographers don't want it, but because it's impossible. There's a large number of users. People exercise rights to 3, 4, and 5 potentials and only large multipliers bring some big money. The law we are now discussing is a law that has some foothold in that unfortunate period of communist Yugoslavia. There was a Law on the Copyright of the Federation of the People's Republic of Yugoslavia there sometime in 46, and it was possible to use the works of copyright without compensation, and the right to follow was I think 10 years maximum. The authors paid a 90% tax on what they realized and were indeed citizens of the second order. I lived at that time. If I wanted to register as a musician, I couldn't do it. I could've been a farmer and thus exercised my rights to the so-called so-called farmers. self-employed work. If I were to ask you here now like our viewers if someone was watching us, say, who was Gold Bartle? Most people wouldn't know. Some do. This is the lady who invented Vegeta after eight years of imprisonment in the communist Yugoslavia. It's the firm that was taken over yesterday by Mrs. Martina Dalic, who lives on that Vegeta, and has no status as Mrs. Zlata Bartl in front of her seat, but has a chicken sculpture. So, in any other system of the normal system, in a system in which copyrights were arranged, this lady would not be rich, but she could really ask how much the island cost. However, she died without any rights and was never compensated for her invention. Let's not let the respected ministers in this law make a mistake. We're creating it now. Let's leave the directive. It is the Directive that applies or does not apply. We are the first Parliament, we are the first Parliament in Europe to discuss it. The Germans have already said they will stop the application of this directive because they do not understand what will happen in the system in which User Generated Content So Youtube etc. So those platforms on which users generate content, so the platforms are made coat of arms, and have become the richest X in the world and Facebook and Youtube and Google, etc., so they want to see if collective protection can still happen because the individual is not really possible anymore. I speak here on behalf of and appeal on behalf of the accompanying musicians on behalf of all those people who have created a great value but for this do not receive absolutely any compensation. And you can't say that it can't be done because some are satisfied. Those who are satisfied with the law can get out of that repartition class and do not have to seek protection, but most people do not realize, not only that they do not realize but they cannot come into a position to exercise their rights in this whole story. Because we have the so-called. The network connection that he wrote about.../incomprehensible/... so Victron explained it well we have two ways of functioning, now people probably look at me white, but you know what I'm talking about, before he produced a piece of product he gave it to the user for some fee and the user couldn't share it in any other way until the tape appears, and in the case of the tape, it can record two or three times after that nothing works anymore. So there was no network connection between users. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the discographer when he's making something, so I'm aware of their problems, and the users are slowly networking, and that network connection is such that it's not solely based on the disc, but because it's left to the users. Consider that this new economy that we are now creating that we are discussing where we are who we are, and perhaps for Europe. We must come to a fair distribution, but indeed by a fair distribution or even by redistributing the means that exist that must come to those that must come.../incomprehensible/... must come to Kovačić. They have to because their talent, their blood, their tears, their ability on that video, as it is in Croatian actors who have no right, I don't know in numerous reruns that happen on both HRT and other media. If I didn't bother you too much, in the end I'd just say that by reading this law with great interest I'd come across a few things, one of them is this Article 197 that says, I'll read it. It is allowed without the approval of the rightholder and without the payment of the fee to the public of copyright music works, musical art performances and phonograms during the national ceremony organised by the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry or the State Administration in the organisation of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia or the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. So, no charge. And the foothold for this is again in the EU directive, which says in one of its directives in Article 5(3) of the 3rd indent that this can be done. Well, then, what can you do? Which is why Croatian artists should be excluded when it comes to performance in such a case. Which is why we'd be back in situation in '46. years when some state but it will ban the right to compensation when we can be a democratic society that will recognize, so I think that the Croatian Parliament, that the Croatian Government, that the Supreme Court has enough money and enough funds, that the HGK whose president has paid is still being determined but here's the last figure is maybe 60,000 kuna or compensation, that has enough money to pay the Croatian author, to pay the Croatian musician, to pay the Croatian actor, to pay the Croatian journalist a fair fee, and believe me, it is never more than 20 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31832	The next club of representatives is, and I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter, a respected minister. Here you are, my dear Nina Oatsulinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I kind of begged to take the floor again because since most clubs are highly referred to and to this question by performers and biographers, I think it's good every time to point out some things. First of all, the truth is dr. Škoro and I know a lot about this and I have read your book and your doctoral work with great interest in the part where you talked about this new economy and about looking for new models of sustainable compensation for all stakeholders and your diagrams in this regard are very complex, but very inspiring and I think that in one part of this law we also leaned on these considerations about how to cover everything in one market. But why is it important to talk about the directive? I agree that if something is not prescribed that it must, it is always the decision of national legislation in which it will go. However, somewhere in the end after we resolve the relationship between the discographers and performers in Croatia, producers and directors, publishers and journalists, so their mutual relationship on the other hand is always global players and global platforms. And that's why it's so much easier if in the directives we have solutions that recognize particularly European specificities, European legislation and European tradition to put ourselves together according to these global players because then there are no 4 million of us then 400 million who are talking to one Google or Facebook or something else, then we are still much better positioned to protect the national, cultural and creative industries. As for the dynamics of law-making, I've talked about it in some public appearances and committees, and I'll repeat here. We'll take as much time as it takes to bring into second reading a law that will be just. I mentioned that I was in contact with the French, French minister and the German minister with whom we shared the presidency I talked a lot about, they stopped their law because of the Google dispute, not because of this issue, and in the text they put to public debate there is no mandatory collective or irrevocable compensation. The Netherlands passed the law, she didn't go that way. Somehow we will be the closest and the most communicating with the French because we think that their tradition, the French tradition of protecting the authors and performers, is the one that is, if so, the headquarters in Europe. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, I don't think they should be mentioned at all because they have made it very clear that they won't comply with the directive at all, after Brexit they don't even have that obligation anymore, and we know that their industry is therefore the Anglo-American industry on these platforms dominant and they certainly don't share our interests. We will consider Article 197 carefully, and I agree there is a yes and no, we will listen to the debates and we will see it at all is not something that must be kept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31834	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative and vice president of Miroslav Skora.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31835	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I thank you for this, for your address. I'm glad you feel that France is a country to see, and I think so. I think it's something to look up to when it comes to the Law on Electronic Media, but that's still going to be the case. I will not only say that I stand up for the rights of Croatian artists, because I have indeed achieved everything in my life because of this little talent that God has given me. However, we are small, we cannot stand as French toward Google, nor as Germans according to Youtube who did not allow Youtube to act and share German content until recently, but in the end they agreed. But just because we are small we are so vulnerable that we have to do everything possible to protect this culture, and I think we can also call on a few documents, resolutions and the UN, in the European Commission's final line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31836	Thank you. Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31837	Thank you, Mr. Representative, since you are probably the only representative in this conference who is both author and performer and biographer I would also like to listen to your proposal for a solution with which you would be equally happy and satisfied both as author and biographer and performer. Now you're a parliamentary representative, so you're lucky you don't have any, you don't have that burden anymore, but I believe you know that there's a very difficult solution here, but we're all here to discuss and find the solution that will be best.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31838	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Villa Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31839	Thank you. The Honorable Minister here you were just talking about this relationship between the performer and the producer, according to the biographer, and then the biographer towards global providers. Now I'm curious, we've already talked about this on the board, and I'm interested in how in this direction this provision is going which is actually amazing about 7 years of primary rights, let's say on audiovisual media, let's say the series that's being created at this point, and now if it's going to go to these larger platforms at all, it's to assume that it's going to be in those 7 years, and in those 7 years, people aren't going to get but no compensation for it. But that's really the opposite of those articles from 86 to 89.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31840	The reply of the esteemed Minister Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31841	Not exactly, Mr. Representative, it is not true that he will not receive any compensation, so this law sets if I may say so, several layers or several levels of protection of law. You have copyright, you have related rights, you have rights of reproduction among your related rights. Therefore, it is not true that authors and coauthors as well as performers will exercise the rights of these performances, but it has just tried to find a balance since the Croatian audiovisual industry is very highly subsidized, to find a balance between this repeated fee and the public interest that what is highly subsidized is mostly more than 90% of the public money produced, can be made, can be shown in some period of time in a way that is available to the public because we are afraid otherwise to limit the number of demonstrations of Croatian audiovisual works.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31842	Thank you very much. Now we will continue and the next Club of Representatives will be that of HSLS and Reformers, and the Honorable Representative Dario Hrebak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31843	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs today, in our first reading, we have two important laws that make most of it exactly a alignment with EU directives relating to media and cultural creative industries, and which are regulated, redefine exactly the way in which we respect the reality that we live in the digital age. Technological development and innovation change ways in which cultural, creative and media industries create ways in which content comes to end users or consumption models of content itself. In this process as well as any other foundation, relations are changed in a particular industry, and of course, when they change the foundations of a particular industry, then there are winners and losers. What it looks like is the value of a chain in industries that use copyright and related rights, so at the very beginning we have those who create content, whether it's journalists, photographers, musicians, producers of different influencers on social networks, platforms, etc., so they're just the starting point of that system. We also have media, publishers, universities, research organisations, etc. On the third page, we have Internet platforms, and at the end of it all, we have users who use it all. The primary objective of the EU directive we are implementing here is below No. 1. provide protection of copyright and related rights in terms of internet use, and fair and fair distribution of values in this chain above all from internet platforms to copyright holders, therefore to creators, and also to media publishers. The coronary virus pandemic has further highlighted two things, switching most of the process online, but it creates one fact that in this digital sphere creators and media publishers provide most of the content to users for free. In such an environment, in such a scope, the question of the sustainability of their business models is rightly raised. It's high time for regulation to be updated, it's not at all controversial, but things aren't as black as we all think they are. I don't want to put my finger on anyone, not one of these groups I just pointed out. We have a mass of examples of how creators and monetize content that they share online and of which they live from YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, etc., we have a whole generation of mostly young musicians who reach the audience almost exclusively through social networks and YouTube because they are hard to break through traditional media. These channels allow for the creativity of content more than ever, for users everything is easily available, searchable for most free, and traditionally the media news manufacturers are in these circumstances the most difficult ones to swim. Faced with the constant decline of online advertising revenues coming with internet traffic, they still couldn't stop all these losses. Some day the good news comes from France, which in one part of the implementation of the directive went far from all EU members, the model is that Google will pay publishers for their related rights to information publications. It is further explained that they have come through collective bargaining, so Google itself has agreed on common principles and rules, but concrete licensing contracts are individually concluded with Google on the principles of contractual freedom. Now, our model from this bill, specifically art. 214th century. 2nd point. 4th subpoint. e., predicts that just as publishers would exercise their rights exclusively collectively through the Society for collective exercise of rights, not individually, such as this case I cited from France. Since some other countries are considering this type of collective exercise of the right by European Commissioner for the Internal Market Terry Preston in front of the European Commission on the European Parliament's question on 9 November 2020, the European Commission considers that Member States are not allowed to implement the Article. 15. The Directive on copyright in the Digital Single Market through a mechanism of compulsory collective exercise of rights. Art. 15. it gives information publication publishers the exclusive right to approve or prohibit distribution and make their publications available to the public by service providers and information society. Without imposing compulsory collective exercise of rights would rob publishers of this exclusive right by preventing publishers from authorising or prohibiting the use of their publications. So we will surely as a club support this bill. The only question that we have is that, I would say, in the air of this thing is spinning and there is, is there a chance that the Republic of Croatia might be exposed to some kind of intrinsic procedure through the uncoordinated implementation of the EU directive, and here I think it would be good to explain this particular article. 214th century. 2nd point. 4th subpoint. e... precisely those facts that publishers are limited in the enforcement and availability of their rules contrary to the Directive? So now it is crucial whether we are in that sense and in that part are in line with the directive. Otherwise, nothing else, we don't have a problem with the law itself, HSLS and our club will, of course, support this law, but here's another explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31844	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS, and on behalf of the club will speak the respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31845	I'd like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, ma'am. Minister with an associate. We've been talking about copyright and related rights for two and a half hours. Of course, this is an important proposal to replace the one from 2003. and after we have become a full member of the EU, we have, of course, taken on the obligation and monitoring and implementation of the EU acquis in our order, and therefore, sometimes it is a matter of unification, and sometimes of harmonising standards and harmonisation with European legislation. It is good that this law is in our parliamentary procedure so that we can actually respect the deadline that we are assigned and that we expect, which expires in the 6th month, so we have enough time to get a good, good legal proposal that will help those who need help, and they did not have a number. Before the EU entered into the process of drafting and adopting this directive, it measured the impact of creative, cultural and media industries on EU GDP and, respectively, on employment in the EU. Many economic parameters were included, and the conclusion was that creative, cultural and media industries in the EU economy have more than 4% share in GDP and that the absolute amount of money turnover within these industries is huge, and that the employment rate is greater than 3%. It has been shown that this industry is in the process of the 2008 economic crisis. It has been particularly resilient in relation to other industries, so they have not fallen but have even grown, income has increased by a number of changes, and that is certainly why the EU has estimated that there is a need to access better protection of these industries especially on the internet. Hence and so much interest in both this topic and the one we'll talk about during the afternoon. The proposed law is primarily designed to adapt the existing legal framework to technological development that has changed the way of creating, producing, distributing, exploiting copyrights and the protection of related rights in question. In the course of enhanced digitisation, which we are witnessing the adoption of the proposed law will provide clearer rules for the protection of copyrights and related rights and suitable for application in a digital environment that will achieve greater legal certainty and contribute to the economic sustainability of creative, cultural and media industries in the preservation of cultural heritage without distorting freedom of expression and other interests of users of digital content and services, nor by placing undue burdens on the business of the provider of information society services. Previously, we witnessed that platforms like Google and Youtube, under the pretext of privacy and business secrets, actually made very non-transparent decisions that were unilateral. They developed a successful business model within which they used creative content and all of which, of course, took place without negotiation. The proposed law prescribes a new right related to copyright for publishers of informational publications, such as publishers of daily newspapers. This is expected primarily to solve these publishers' problems in cases where so-called For example, Google uses content aggregates such as Google news in their publication of informational publications, which are invested by publishers and earning from them, without sharing with publishers or at least not sharing in an appropriate way the amount obtained by the financial gain. Since the proposed legislative proposal facilitates the licensing of copyrights and related rights for works and other protection items contained in the broadcasting of certain types of television and radio programmes, and clear rules are prescribed in the case of transmission of software signals by means of technical process and direct flow are expected as a consequence of the introduction of these newspapers into EU countries of national television and radio programmes as well as greater availability in RS television and radio programmes from other Member States. As we can see, as proposed, legal certainty will be increased in the field of research organisations, cultural heritage institutions and educational institutions, given that the proposed law prescribes mandatory substantive restrictions on copyrights and related rights for the needs of so-called. mining of text and data, then for the purposes of using works and other subjects of protection in digital and cross-border setting, and for the purposes of preserving cultural heritage. Furthermore, the detailed regulation of these labour rights will achieve greater legal certainty both for the employer and for the author who created the author's work by expressing his obligations under the labour contract and/or according to the employer's instructions. Greater legal certainty is the consequence that will take place in terms of clearer and more detailed regulation of copyrights created in the state or public service, copyright works created at public high schools in scientific, artistic and teaching work, copyrights of students in the works they created at higher schools in the performance of their student duties. One of the potential problems of this law, as we had the opportunity to see in the public consultation, was resolved at the end of the public debate and refers to the objection of the cameramen who warned that the new bill left them without their status as co-authors of film works that had more than 6 decades so that the cameramen and installers would be included in co-authors and along with writers and music authors. The main observations of the professional associations concerned the establishment of a right to a special appropriate compensation to the author whose work contributed significantly to the improvement of the business of the employer or agency, as well as to the earlier broadly described right to recall the right to exploit works created in a working relationship. However, the comments of professional associations have been accepted and certain provisions have been amended or complemented, and some have been deleted by removing potential problems. As we had the opportunity to see from the presentation of the distinguished minister in the first reading, there is openness to improve this legal proposal and I congratulate you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31846	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31847	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, Director, so our Copyright and Related Rights Act is from 2003. Meanwhile, the fact has been complemented and changed several times, but originally since 2003. Let's just remember that in 2003. Then the Internet was a very underdeveloped thing, Facebook would only appear for a year, Google was just a web search engine, Twitter didn't exist, there was no iTunes, there was no Amazon digital store, there was no smartphone. Look, we're here on smartphones, and we can be immersed in the authorial parts of all kinds for 24 hours. YouTube was launched in 2005, 2nd. After our law, and speaking of YouTube according to Financial Times, this company controls about 60% of audio broadcasting, and pays only about 11% of the total revenues that the authors receive. The whole idea of copyright protection is strongly focused on international law and co-operation at global level, especially with the dissemination of digital technologies that know neither borders nor spatial, nor the time barriers that otherwise restrict us in this physical world. But just because there are no boundaries and obstacles doesn't mean there shouldn't be some ground rules. In order to preserve freedom, certain rights must be protected. As in the real world, we're not allowed to enter the store and get a record, a book, a CD or any other copyright, it can't be allowed on the Internet either. I think it's an important message, and ultimately it's the only way to preserve and develop authorship and creativity. So we must always bear in mind the idea of authorship, creativity and the possibility of protecting and developing them, of course. This bill launched a very lively debate that is rarely seen, 419 pages of different comments were on the very proposal of the law either on other comments. But if we read them a little bit better and look at a lot of them right now, is the question of whether the authors are justly paid in time for their work and for exploiting their works? And as we do not expect someone to sell us bread, dress, or car, without paying for it, so we would not have to expect anyone for their song, for their video, for their article, or for any other authorial work, regardless of what technology allows us to do, not to be paid for it or that we can come very easily to all of it. In the last decade, the EU has taken major steps to protect copyright and related rights, particularly with regard to copyright in the Digital Single Market. Of course, in addition to European directives, this law is the result of a large number of international conventions, agreements and such. When the directive was in public debate, when it was in the adoption, there was indeed a dispute, it was, that our representatives in the European Parliament were swept up with all possible e-mails so that at one point their email addresses were blocked because they could not receive so much mail for and against suggestions and everything else. So we live in a new world, we live in a new age. Look, we're all on our smartphones or anything, and it's normal for us to get any information we can get. But what we should keep in mind all the time is that the whole idea of protecting copyright is to maintain, preserve and adequately reward or pay for the production of copyright works. On the other hand, what is important to all of us is that copyright works are simple and permanently available to the public. Today, at a time of digital technologies and countless ways of distribution of content is particularly important. And somehow when I'm discussing laws, I always try to be correct and try to be honest. Well, it's not easy to find a balance, the right measure in which everyone and the authors and the audience will be satisfied. It is simply not simple, that it is simply certain that this law, or directive, would not, when it was at EU level, have caused so much resistance and would not have caused it either, and we should also be able to discuss it, and we should bear in mind that no directive is, as I know, carved into stone and that it cannot be changed. As well as the laws when, when we go to use, we see in a part that isn't that we don't need to change. That message, which is the minister, I was least called to protect the minister or praise her, but the message she said there was "this is the law in the first reading, give suggestions, we struggle, we have problems, we know that there is a possibility of progress," so we are expected to give proposals and I am reading and reading that between the first and second reading all those suggestions you will hear from this pay phone, which you will hear through the debate, possibly through the committees, you will see again and see that there is really some sort of, some sort of mind related to all this together. Hence, what we should all act together for progress. So, a few years ago, there was also a big storm over one of the directives, so it was the one about copyright that's on the single digital market and it's said it's going to introduce and it's going to end the Internet, censorships are going to prevail, it's going to destroy every possibility of access to content, there's going to be a tax on links, they're going to significantly reduce availability on the Internet, there's going to be content filters, maybe I'm wrong, but it doesn't seem to me that anything in that sense has changed, the Internet still exists, the amount of material that we're getting information on it is bigger than ever. But what I hope and what is important and what is important to this law is someone creating this material, someone creating this material and expecting those who are the authors of this material to get the kuna, the euro more for their work and what needs to be the interest of all of us to really do so in the future. This law that we are discussing today in the first reading and has roots in all of this, and regardless of what we are in principle really in favour of the idea and regulation and protection from copyright, of course we have some of the remarks. I will be here in principle, and in an individual of course I will be my eternal subject, which the Minister knows, and that is the subject of architects who are not before being fair to the end, were not properly regulated, now regulated and my desire is to make it better and because of them. This law when I read it has 314 articles, it is extensive, complicated, difficult to implement, if it could simplify something a little bit, I'm sure it would be good. What I'm taking this opportunity to say, and I'm also going to say when it's going to be in the second reading, which is that the proposaler's job will be to closely follow the law that will one day be passed and that the problem will be corrected in time. This copyright protection system I'm sure by passing these laws is not a done deal, it's going to have to work, balance, see different interests, we'll see what technology development brings us. The development of technology can bring us new problems. I'm just going to use this to warn you of an article that I have left unspeakable, or the part where the law comes into force, for an article. You've determined 62nd to enter into force only on 7 June 2022. I wonder what the reason was, and what's the word? This article is prescribed that "the author has the right to receive, regularly at least once a year, updated relevant and comprehensive data on the exploitation of his copyright which is the subject of an copyright contract". So, if the law goes into effect with one law, and what is extremely important to the authors to get information on who is using and the way why you did it, why is it 7 June? But there will be an opportunity and an opportunity to answer and explain... that it really happens in the future. maybe now or in another case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31848	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31849	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Director, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here at first I should say immediately that the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposal of this law, primarily because of the fact that this proposed law modernises the national system of copyright protection in line with, above all, the needs of the modern digital society and the digital market, and then the development of an appropriate EU legal framework and, of course, further improves certain aspects of the national system in the area of copyright protection and related rights. Of course, before us a very complex law is quite extensive, over 300 articles and what is important to mention, remind me, although it has already been said I will remind, however, that the adoption of the proposed law is carried out in compliance with two directives. The first Directive is the Directive on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market and the second Directive is the Directive laying down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain Internet transmissions of broadcasting and re-emissioning organisations of television and radio programmes. When it comes to the system of copyright protection and related rights, it is above all necessary to stress that the system of protection of copyright and related rights aims primarily to provide incentives for the creation of copyrights as well as for investment in the creation of copyrights and other subjects of protection, but also to ensure public access to such works and subjects of protection, in such a way as to ensure the return of investment in their creation and provision of access to the public and to ensure the financial basis for further handling of creative activities. Of course, when we look at and look at the context of the time in which we live today, of course, we can well conclude that we are witnesses to the circumstances, but also the challenges in which the way we use copyrights and objects of protection of related rights has changed significantly, primarily in the context of the development of digital and information technologies, and of course, among other things, and for that reason, it has proved to be a necessary legal framework for the protection of copyright and related rights and, of course, adapt it to digital society. And what I also need to stress is that it is not less important for the moment that it speaks of a significant economic and social contribution of copyright and related rights which, among other things, bear witness and study to the name of industries that are intensively using intellectual property rights and economic efficiency in the EU, which was produced in September 2019, which says that according to data from certain parts of the study, which includes data for the period 2014 to 2016. The contribution of industries using copyright and related rights intensively in the Republic of Croatia is 4.6% in total employment and 6.3% in GDP respectively, while the contribution of the industrial industry using copyright intensively and related rights in the EU is on average even higher and is 5.5% in total employment and 6.9% in gross domestic product, respectively. And, of course, in this context, the basic issues which are regulated by the proposed law cover several areas, above all, the first area relating to the removal of the legal uncertainty so far related to certain uses of exceptions and restrictions from copyright and related rights in the context of new ways of using copyright works and other protected content. On the other hand, the second area concerns improving practice, licensing and ensuring wider access to protected content. The third area relates to the creation of a market for copyright that works well and the fourth area concerns ensuring assumptions for fair compensation to authors and contractors in contracts which grant their rights for the use of their works and other subjects of protection. And of course a few words about what the proposed law is expected to provide, what it will contribute. Above all, we will get clearer copyright protection rules and related rights suitable for application in a digital environment. Of course, this will achieve greater legal certainty and certainly contribute to the economic sustainability of creative, cultural and media industries. And, of course, the preservation of cultural heritage, without prejudice to freedom of expression and other interests of users of digital content and, of course, the adoption of this law will increase legal certainty in the field of research organisations, cultural heritage institutions, educational institutions, etc. And what is important is that I further point out that the proposed law prescribes mandatory substantive restrictions on copyright and related rights for the purpose of mining text and data. Then for the purposes of using works and other subjects of protection in digital and cross-border setting and certainly for the purpose of preserving cultural heritage. Of course, there is also an area of activity of cultural heritage institutions where the proposed law will provide a clear framework for the regulation of copyright and related rights in order to facilitate the digitisation and dissemination of works from other subjects of protection considered inaccessible on the market. And, of course, in the atmosphere of what I have so far listed, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill with the club expressing its position and considers that particular attention should be placed on those parts of the law and those articles that regulate the relationship between the biographers and publishers in order to achieve fair compensation. It is clear that performers and discographers are therefore both in new complex relationships because of new relations on the digital market and specifically Ministers of the HDZ Representatives' Club suggests that, until the second reading, some provisions of the bill are being completed, in particular those relating to collective bargaining, so that both sides will have their own problems and their specificities, and therefore, in order to achieve a fair compensation or appropriate and proportionate compensation, and that most clubs agree, and as I see it, there is also an interest in communication and in finding an optimal solution in this area, and I thank you for this and of course expect that the HDZ Club will have some more optimal solutions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31850	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31851	Thank you very much, Vice President. I want to say something about the Proposal of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, although I must admit that this is one of the most difficult laws I've ever seen while I've been preparing myself, and it's just not easy to talk about this subject that occupied us this morning, and I think the debate is going in the right direction. So I put the most faith in what the minister said because still someone dared after what, 18 years to go into change. the whole law, along with some minor changes that we had in the meantime, and to touch a space that is clearly not only arranged in the Republic of Croatia but also in the EU area, without speaking on the other hand, let's say other countries that are not in the EU and then come to the debate that we had today. To say that today in 2021 we live exactly the same as in the '90s, the '80s, when the same industry was the most talked about today, the discography, music, music, art, etc., in very different forms. We were young and we know the way we worked when they showed up I don't know the first tapes, so then after that I don't know the walkman, and then after that some other apparatus that could produce us music I don't know from the iPad, so after that we moved on to these machines that we have cell phones of all kinds where we can clean up a lot of information and have fun in our own way. And then, on the other hand, did we use something, or did the one who gave us the fun get its pleasure. It is obviously a question that is not easy to deal with in the time of what we have, which is a powerful digital transformation from day to day, new technologies, and how to stand on the part to be just, how fair we can be to those who create our works. And when, I say, we used to produce it ourselves by listening, I don't know, trying to record some song that we liked, so it's like producing in a car or somewhere else today when it's so much easier. I've also heard Mr. Matula's argument as an actor, everyone has tried to find themselves in this law, I've also listened to a fellow Skor who's certainly the most, let's say, at home or familiar with it, it's really not easy since it's a non-significant industry. We heard today in the Republic of Croatia about 4.6% in total employment or 6.3% in GDP, so it's not something we should ignore and say that's not so important to us. In the EU, these figures are slightly bigger than we are. To whom do we guess or how to establish, let us say, righteousness? He just tried to compare it to something in my life that I know, so let's say the construction of a house that requires a good architect and a designer who, let's say, will draw that artist who will build it and eventually the user who ordered it and who will pay for it, and then he can rent that house to someone in tourism and collect his services. And it's very simple here and we don't have a problem here. However, when we came to the entertainment industry obviously we have problems because if I looked at these 727 comments left in public consultation many say I am a performer, my music is reproduced, and I have no compensation of it because it is produced, I don't know, on social networks or through certain services. And how do you find the fairest model here? I'm saying again, I'm putting everything I know in the hands of the minister because she knows it best because she's the author of this law and I believe that she's the intention she's been saying here today, maybe the best she can at this point. Can we find this moment of mutuality in terms of i.e. The solutions that everyone, and it says in the comments, collectively we deserve something, so we individually get, as we have through some other stuff that's being paid to the performers, that's the question now. So is this law real and whether it is a copyright then protected or its related right if all collectively so, let's say, we negotiate or we get, and individually we get something from our account, it's now a question and there are numerous doubts, and whether this directive that we want to implement is the most just solution since we have obvious experiences that say that some other countries have a problem with it, even though they're a lot of home than we are, and not to say beyond our borders in other countries where everything is allowed, where you simply don't have protection, especially, let's say, in this digital world and where you can do whatever you want, and then we're a little further away from them. It's just not a simple solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31852	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31853	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, you were talking about discography. Now, if I could just do it in the '70s, it was a record, and the one who bought it could, he could have listened to it. However, by developing technology we live in a new age, in a new time and it is clear abuses are growing. How to actually protect the author, and we know if I can compare that we are here as criminals and police, they are always a step ahead, so it seems to me despite this law that we are passing that actually this abuse will always be a step ahead of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31854	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31855	Thank you very much. Coliga Simičević, they are a step ahead, but this enables technology today and there is simply no help there and if the conversations between these, let's say, create authorial works in all areas of video games, culture, music etc. through some opportunities with which they can share or can be used to share such content find solutions in which everyone will be satisfied for everyone to welcome and say that. Now, I say, given the arranged spaces, let's say the EU and what we know that you can't take down certain contents in every EU country, I don't know, in Germany, and so as you can in Croatia in exactly the same way or when you come to other countries where you can download everything and we know today what we use when we watch movies, when we watch shows, etc., we have what we pay, you know that you have to pay and watch, and there's what you don't pay, and yet it's seen in the same way or similar way. Unfortunately, even today, movies are being made before they're new on the Internet platforms before they might even come out in the movies, etc., So it's not just this solution, but I'm saying, here's the government's done its thing, I hope in two readings we solve... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31856	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that through today's debate and in the name of clubs, and now through a few individual debates, the need for reviewing this first bill or a proposal of law in the first reading, and I sincerely hope that this debate will not be like throwing words into the wind, but it will be heard and this debate will come out of, in a small part of the MPs from personal experiences, because they are part of the world itself, of the art world or of someone else where they are faced with certain rights that are copyrighted, which are performed by our citizens, which in the second part of the distribution, but in the second part of the representatives through what the people who have been sent to the problem are given a picture through public, public debate, and we are here among other and the speakers of our citizens, certain interests of our citizens, and it is up to us that we are the same here to elaborate or to the end of this not only to the adoption of the same. I have no intention of being destructive, but once again, it seems to me that the principles of Directive 279/2019 have not naturally been passed on in terms of justice or in terms of fair compensation for certain rights, and we have also failed to ensure the mechanisms for which we will come to the principle of the directive. The solutions proposed through the law itself are not appropriate because I have already said, when we talk about collective bargaining where associations should negotiate in the interrelationships of fair distribution of revenue from the use of images on digital platforms, I am afraid we will not be able to achieve this because memberships in associations are voluntary and we cannot know our Croatian legal system collective bargaining in terms of the employer to the workers and vice versa, which in this case is not the relationship between this case which is the most disputed record houses or phonogram manufacturers and performers themselves. So I'm afraid that model, not just me, but what we see from the public debate won't be effective. The second thing you predicted through Art. 58th is the conqualification of non-existent contracts or contracts of existing contracts. Now we have multi-layer problems, first we have more than 90% of the performers who have not signed the transfer of rights to digital distribution or the right to the available public. The second category is those who signed them 10, 20, 30 years ago when we talked about the command sale of the audio carrier before that of some other forms where there were no tax on the right to make available to the public anywhere in those contracts because there was simply no right at that time, nor were there digital platforms through which certain recordings were produced. Thirdly, we also have cases where some performers have never signed any contracts simply because before it was not usual for follow-up performers to sign any contracts, it was handled in some special way. And the fourth category was those who had signed with one record house in the meantime moved to another record company and even if they had a better position to negotiate with another record company in one way or another, which means even if they signed it with the new house, they still listen to it through digital platforms or all of us listen through the digital platforms of some of their works that were created before that house, and they can't get any compensation for the time that it passed. These are all the problems we expect solutions to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31858	We have one replica of the respected representative Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31859	Dear colleague of the Voice. Do you think the introduction of a new right for student musicians would also be a blow to the main performers who would therefore be in an invisible legal but worse financial position when viewing income from the source of distribution? Would that be an additional blow to the performers, publishers who are the main investors in music and entrepreneurs whom no one guarantees that the investment will be invested in a single recording or album back? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31860	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31861	Thank you. Well, I don't think the burden of a righteous one would look at it as a burden at all. It's just a fair fee on three parts for three different rights. It cannot happen that one right is ignored or that compensation for that right is killed by someone else who owns another related right. So that part of the “treasury” for auxiliary contractors would not have to be a burden for the main performers at all, but through some fair distribution if the 50% that we have so far had to provide for the 50% of it, means 27.5% we would have to provide some fixed fee that would be up to 20% that goes to all the performers independently are either the main or the auxiliary, it could leave room for the main performers to negotiate with the discographers and the additional share in the fee. So I don't see any damage here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31862	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31863	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, we're pretty much all agreeable about this stuff, and here's exactly what my colleague Voter said nicely, and I'm just going to do it a little further. So wherever the festival takes place in any part of Croatia, the Dalmatians will play "Dalmatia in my eye" Mise Kovaca, Slavonci will play Škorina "Open the Women's Gate", Zagorci "Suzu za Zagorje Brege" Vice Vukova all of course with some digital platform, it will be a great fun. This digital platform is paid monthly, which is perfectly fine, there is a subscription to the use of this digital platform and the music it contains. In this bill of law, we see that copyright holders for the already mentioned broadcasting or use will achieve a reasonable fee that will be paid to them by the biographies with which they have a contract. So let's remind again, these three songs were created from the 1960s to the '90s when we didn't even know that social networks would be commercialized in this way, and therefore many performers and performers, either individually or of course, share some old contracts after 50 years old and biographers naturally assume that according to the provisions of that contract, they have the right to dispose, and of course also to allocate compensation for the performer himself. No one could predict or regulate at that time of righteous compensation. I would especially like to say something here on behalf of the accompanying musicians. It's all those who, of course, are not part of a band, but are simply perfect students. I'd like to mention here and my colleague Škor, so there's the legendary Ante Gelo and many. How does it work when you report a musical part? The performer shall report the music work inside and in that form indicate all those who participated in the performance of it. Now how is that violinist or cellist going to get his fee? So for the time being, it's only through membership in some association that has all his data, so it's also a jury account, name, last name, address. What I would say and what I mentioned to a respected minister and in the replica is that we all try together to come to a final draft of the law to see if we can go towards collective protection of those rights, although there is once again my colleague, Glasovac, said that there are certain problems but I believe that we can all agree. So much for music. Now I'd like to mention an even more likable example. One TV show that used to be called "Forever Neighbors" and now called "Forever, Forever Neighbours". She plays a whole series of actresses and actors. The stars are Ljubo Kerekesh and Darko Janesh along with the entire ensemble. We've been watching this show for decades on one Croatian television. And since I know both of them, and I am a member of the Croatian Association of Drama Artists, I spoke and said we got a fee for recording this series. There's a rerun already going on for 15 years, we didn't get anything. Of course, you signed the contract. Nobody slows it down. They signed the contract because at that moment they were placed in front of the famous sentence "take it or leave it". So do many artists and musicians and actors, including many others, because they were simply brought into such a situation that they needed money for life and signed what was put before them. I believe that we will also put their rights in some final draft of the law in a good and correct way. And here is only for the end when we already mention the great phototheque of Croatian Radio, i.e. the video archive of Croatian Radio and there I worked for almost ten years, and the phototheque of Croatian Radio is one of the largest in this part of Europe. Croatian broadcasting has an impressive video archive, so perhaps there is one suggestion which of us would not want to look at the historical rides of Janica Kostelic or some gold medals of our rowers or handball players. Why don't we try to agree and let Croatian Radio Television make its own streaming service, or platform, connect with a provider and thus reach the customer. I believe it could be a nice, perhaps rather significant part of the national television house's income. Thank you very much. I believe that we will sincerely and willingly cooperate on all amendments to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31864	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna stop for a little bit, and we're gonna clear the hall first, and then at one o'clock, we're gonna start taking the club stand. It's 12.50 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31865	Thank you very much. We are done with the views, we continue the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, now it is up to us, we are in individual debates, it is up to Mr Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31866	... esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. [[Last-on speaker]] Now here are a few more notes that we believe can improve this, this proposed legal text. First of all, 10th, therefore, he speaks of works inaccessible on the market, and later, of course, it speaks of the rights of use of such works in which St. 4. says that the author can at any time dispute this "unavailability on the market" status with his signature simply, so with his signature. We believe that St. 4. should be extended in a way that disputing this status of "unavailability on the market" should be limited when the work is published in a broader publication for scientific or academic purposes because in these cases the author should require not only written statements but also, and valid evidence, argument. And it would be good to prescribe a reasonable time limit, for example. one or two years within which this non-availability status may be disputed. Because otherwise, otherwise, whether there are such libraries or publishers of periodic publications, even those scientific ones, could be in a rather complicated position, and it is a public interest. Next up, Art. 11th said that people's and literature, that national, artistic and literary works are not considered a subject of copyright, but is paid compensation for their public disclosure. We think that this should exclude heritage institutions or even perhaps heritage and research in terms of art. 182 pages 2 and 3. Art. 43 defines those providers of information society services which are not established for the purpose of economic or economic benefit, they are therefore not considered to be providers of content-sharing services through the Internet within the meaning of this law. There are a number of Internet encyclopaedias, educational and scientific repositorys, etc., however, we suggest that there be a number of explicit and heritage institutions because we consider it necessary and fair. And the spirit of this article allows this because the list of institutions mentioned begins with the wording "as they are", so this formulation is inclusive and it suggests the openness of this set, so we suggest that the heritage institutions here be counted. Art. 160th century 2 says that information publications cannot be subject to public lending, we believe that this should simply be removed because there is no point in this publisher, a publisher who, therefore, issues informative publications, puts it in a position that is privileged to the position of the other publishers, and then this particular interest of the publisher is actually minor here, and the institution of lending information publications is centuries and socially useful and really does not make sense that this is the way we do it. And finally. 178th century 3 says authors have the right to compensation from a natural or legal person who, with a charge, performs a photocopying service and, of course, with equated multiplication techniques. However, here, at least in a reasonable part of their basic activity, the heritage institutions should again be excluded. Here, these are the remarks that I wanted to make, of course they are not new, they were present in the public debate and they were very precise and they were, of course, all those remarks removed by the motionors with actually one and the same fact, one and the same factual argument, which says that the provisions and the directives are binding. However, I would just like to mention at the end of the presentation that, therefore, it is true that the directives are binding on Member States in terms of results, while national authorities are left with a choice of forms and methods. So the goals are binding, but there's a flexibility space in the way it's achieved. And we believe that this space can be used to make these or similar The provisions apply to the benefit of all. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31867	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn. And excuse me, Marin Miletic, here you go. Yeah, yeah. Excuse me. Marin Miletic, then you're after. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31868	Dear Mr. Radin, Vice-President of HS, Honored Mr. Bukarica, Honored Minister Obuljen Koržinek Mrs., Honored colleagues, fellow MPs, Croatian peoples. In order to be able to consider a right at all, it is essential that it has effective legal protection, and this is largely the case in this law. We are looking for how to effectively protect copyright and its related rights, especially in the Internet space. Copyright and his related rights have long earned a new regulation, and there is no doubt about it, and we agree with that. The development of the Internet, the development of different services, the social networks on which they are shared again, the different content has accelerated the need for a new legal framework. We see by the materials we received with the proposal of the copyright law, that this problem has caused a great public debate and a huge interest in the Croatian public and that is justified. The Internet is a space many will say must function as a space of freedom. I can agree with that to a certain extent. But there are also some restrictions, if I may put it that way, which we are becoming more aware of. Large internet services and social networks are undoubtedly self-regulatory influencing many types of internet usage. There are also national legislations and decisions taken in transnational forums concerning the protection of copyrights and related rights and some other aspects, and to a good extent the functioning of the Internet has been affected only by the market that exists on the Internet, as well as in real life, in synergy. But honestly, the trends that have been happening in the internet for the past few years have become increasingly worrying. A few Internet giants who have come out as great winners control a vast part of the Internet space. And we are now trying to get them through legislation to sit down with us at the table and negotiate with those who are well-deserved to their success, to negotiate with the authors of content shared and reproduced on the Internet. By reading this law, we become aware of how much this relationship between the individual author and the large Internet services is, in fact, the ratio of expressed inequality and imbalance. Now we're trying to align the relationship between the two sides through forced legal norms. If we succeed, I'm not quite sure, internet services and social networks are already largely creating their own rules, they're playing some of their own games, their algorithms, for example. which spin in the background decide which content they prefer, push, so that these contents come to a larger part, to a large part of the re-argeted population. In that sense, however, we look at a broader picture. The Internet is increasingly becoming the space of a global monopoly or an oligopoly of certain companies. This law of course doesn't deal with that problem, but I'd like to be aware of it. As far as the law itself is concerned, in an extensive public debate, someone also objected that the law was not technically regulated, many of its provisions raised many questions about application. I can say I agree with such remarks. This law has a very wide circle of addresses. His addresses are almost everyone since we all use the Internet. In this respect, the provisions of the law must be simple and clear, all understandable, and not only understood by individual experts of an agency or lawyers. The law is now in the first reading there are opportunities for the completion and grinding of its provisions, so we expect this until the second reading and the next opportunity for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31869	You have a replica, excuse me, Mr. Miletić. Mr. Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31870	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Minister Miletic, can you comment on what, in what form of danger there is a correlation on the relationship between the Internet platform and copyright in the context of the sharing of consumption of certain profits, etc., etc. So is there any danger to you if, for which it is and what it is or if it does not exist?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31871	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31872	Thank you, colleague Kujundzic. I mean, the subject is really complex. It's not simple. On the one hand, you have big Internet giants if you can express yourself like that and if I'm going to use a picture they're on one boat, but I'm from Rijeka, so they're on one boat and that boat is pretty bent and with this law we actually want to make, ruling to make a balance, and that's good. So it's good to go in that direction and now you just need to see what else can be done to talk if I can say balance like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31873	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now he's Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31874	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing the draft Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was adopted in 2003 and has seen many changes especially during the accession negotiations. We have heard from the Prime Minister, the Government, the Minister's pardon that the idea, apart from the transposed directives, is to modernise the national system of copyright protection with an emphasis on the needs of digital society and the development of an appropriate legal framework for the EU. In complex relationships between the performers and the phonogram producers or directors and producers and their relationships with their electronic media publishers, it is evident that everyone is looking for some kind of maximum position and that is where we need to find a solution that will achieve a good balance. Unfortunately, consumers from the Republic of Croatia are still last in the EU for the use of legal services for sharing music and audiovisual content. This market is still developing in the Republic of Croatia and it is clear that the revenues in that market are not enough to satisfy all stakeholders, but it is extremely important to lay good foundations for the quality of the establishment of the market. We are told that in writing the law a great deal of attention has been paid to the relationship between the performers and the digital content producers, however, despite all the efforts, it is certain that there has not yet been a real solution and that it will still have to be done because the problems of relations from the time of analogue records that are even more complex in the digital context have been inherited. I don't know if anyone touched it today in the debate, but I think it's a big problem and we're gonna have a hard time dealing with it through this law, but it's probably gonna be okay. I hope that today's debate has provided solutions that, in combination with solutions from other EU member states, will contribute to making the second reading closer to solving this problem because we see from the memos and e-mails we have received that some are still not as happy as they are. Association of Croatian film directors. There are some other proposals for regulation of rights, and a few days ago we received a letter from a partner of music authors representing, representing the foundation of publishing contracts, and we are also familiar with the letter that we received from Google that draws attention to some problems. A major step in this law is to regulate access to works available to users on content sharing platforms, and this is in line with the frameworks provided by the EU Directive set a model that should protect our authors because it is understood that the platform is obliged to prove that it has regulated rights. I already said in the opening debate that I am convinced that the authors will be pleased, but we are not sure that they will be satisfied with the others who have created this work with them. The complex relationship also arises when it comes to teaching materials because for the purpose of teaching, exceptions from copyright protection have been extended, while some lecturers expect that the contents they produce for the purposes of teaching copyright protection will have to be further worked on this field in order to achieve satisfactory solutions, with a note of what was said on the board, that there must be co-operation with the Ministry of Education, in fact, to be certified by the ministry in some way. It is also expected that by the second reading, authors of computer programs and databases who have not reported themselves yet, and it is important to note that in this section, the rights of users of computer programs and databases, and in particular in the event that due to inappropriate behaviour of the author, are being questioned by the business of the user or that its core processes have been compromised. I believe that the authors will be aware of the fact that nothing has changed but in the European Commission's 2021 programme and the revision of the directive governing the protection of databases, related to the health debate on the digital age and treatment of digital data, we can expect to have a discussion in 2021 on the modernisation of data protection and in general on the different treatment of data in the digital economy, and that this will later be transplanted into our legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31875	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, the first replica has Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you were talking about market underdevelopment, when we talk about platforms for reviewing audiovisual content in Croatia, but here I would like to underline that it is, in fact, under the law of connected vessels, not related to the market and the supply of the market, but to the paying power and property of our citizens. At the moment of the closure of factories throughout Slavonia, it is a little irrational to expect people to rush to subscribe to such platforms, therefore, when we improve the overall economic property situation in Croatia, I believe that that is when the market will develop. You were also talking about the relationship between the manufacturer and the copyright distributor, I think this proposal that is actually a step back. I hope that until the second reading he would change as you would say, at least if not everyone was satisfied, then everyone was equally unhappy because it was a sign that you found the right compromise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31877	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31878	Well, I'll start at the end, we've heard and already in the debates that these relationships, or percentages, are quite unfavorable and not everyone is satisfied, we've also heard from the Minister and the Government's representative... to try to reconcile it all together and make some balance, that everyone who can be satisfied, satisfied, given that there are many dissatisfied and when there are many dissatisfied, it's hard with a little money to make up for it all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, what you mentioned to the market was not developed, look, we heard from our colleague Ivanovic about what he looks like, he does, someone published his song on Youtube, on a million clicks he gets 6, 7, 8 kn if I'm not mistaken, I don't think that's really enough. On the other hand, if you have another platform, for example, if you follow games or you do streaming, there is far greater income because there people subscribe to these channels and get bigger money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31879	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31880	Dear fellow, you mentioned the authors of computer programs, and now that we know there have been a lot of problems with the copyrights of these computer programs, how do you interpret the fact that in this public debate, no one really got involved from the information community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31881	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31882	Yeah, we also mentioned that on the board, actually when you look at the past and the development of the computer industry, then you know that in the past there were actually much more current programs that worked on one computer and it wasn't complex computer architecture, the software didn't have complex architecture. Today software has quite complex architecture and actually those business software that is needed for businesses, it's very difficult to copy them to use in a company on the one hand, if you have these commercial software that is used for wide use and which can be found on the Internet, today they have slightly more sophisticated ways to license and use. Namely, if you are on the Internet, if you are using a service, every little bit of the same program that you installed unauthorized, without buying it, and even when you buy it, you are authorized to consult the service on the Internet and ask if the license is valid until when it is valid. So maybe that's why the informers didn't get involved, but I think they're going to have to get involved because of, primarily, the databases they're creating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31883	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Grozdana Peric, she's gone, she's losing her right. Now it's Mr. Vice President Miroslav Skoro's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again, ma'am. Minister, the Honorable Director. So, in my individual debate, I would like to perhaps help a little bit with the clarification of the terms used here and used mostly wrongly. Yes, there are authors, performers, discographers when it comes to the music industry, I focus more on it because it seems to me, the biggest subject of the dispute when it comes to this law, and they all have some of their own Czech associations, let's say it's a matter of politics but they also have societies to collect, distribute and some money that's being made by law. And this law should be a good basis for the future of these problems in this sense we no longer have, so the authors who have their own company, it's called ZAMP or the Protection of Copyright, will collect and allocate money to the authors. They do so with several other organizations that have not been well formed, and for actors, and for let's say journalists, etc., in one part, and they are being set up according to useful ones. In the collective protection system, each of us authors can individually request something as protection and can agree once for compensation but when there are many users then you are simply forced to have a situation in which you give authority to a society like ZAMP. It represents you, collects money, takes one major part of the money for itself. It's called the cost of protection. I've never been satisfied with it. We've always had a fight about it. But it's my right as a musician and as an author to argue about it, because it would be ideal for it to be collected if there were no expenses and to be shared with people who were owners and rightholders. Artists have HUZIP or Croatian Association for the Protection of Artistic Rights, and discographers have ZAPRAF, protection of the rights of phonogram manufacturers. So, when the money is collected, you have to have contracts based on which these money is shared. Discographers claim in the music industry that they have these contracts. I'm responsible for saying they don't. On the other hand, if they and they have not predicted this situation, and in Europe there are also countless cases in the world where the courts did not recognise these contracts that did not predict what happened to the digital revolution or did not actually happen in the revolution, only evolution happened. Because there was no democratisation, only the number of stakeholders increased. What did a telecommunications company have to do with the distribution of film or some kind of music? What did all those stakeholders who showed up in the meantime have to do with anything? Nothing. There was your publisher or publisher, there was you and some kind of distribution network. We need to get into a situation with this law to solve the problem of those contracts that are not available. We need to get into a situation to solve the ownership problem. We need to get into a situation to prevent this irregular so-called. MP3 economy, where for one dollar when someone listens or uses any video on the network for one dollar to the performer and comes to the author very little. The authors managed to fight for those 12%, but the performers have absolutely nothing. I am responsible for that, and on the Internet, you can find statements from top Croatian performers, even these averages like me, where we publicly declare that we really don't have anything. We need a quality database that will then work on the benefit of Croatian artists in this system. The database of Croatian artists do not have and large aggregates will not work individually. They only want to work with those who will somehow allow their users to play with as many performers and authors as possible. For example, in my replica, I told the minister that there is a solution to ZERP, I have a foundation which found that the phonograms of our largest biographie of Croatian sound and images did not belong and did not enter the converted mass. Based on the solution that could be filed in the Administrative Court, an appeal was brought to the Administrative Court and was rejected in the first degree. So there's no basis. What is most important is the ownership of the state of Croatia and the state of Croatia on the basis of this property every year needs to be achieved large amounts of money. When I say big ones, I'm really talking about millions of kunas. That's what we need and what we need to do and regulate this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31885	Thank you, too. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31886	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Skoro, I believe your perspective here is invaluable because you speak from the perspective of performers and authors and biographers, yes. So you covered everything. But it wouldn't be the first time we've ever had a legal stunt and not just us, so there's no exception for new market situations. So what would interest me, and I believe the Croatian public as well. So, you're like, whatever role you've stated that you have if someone here, for example, I have a subscription to Apple music on it I have available your works either as a performer, author, etc. I pay a certain subscription for that. How much use do you have? 'Cause I'm saying it's a platform, and it's a use when I say it. Apple music, for example, on Abster or on Youtube, it doesn't matter. [[I didn't just hear what platform, I'm sorry?]] We've heard of youtubes that it's very small. So, I'm paying some subscription to talk about about about 50 kuna a month or now I don't know how much I can't swear How much of that does it actually happen to you as an author, performer and the like? [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31887	Thank you. Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31888	Thank you very much for asking, Mr. Hajdukovic. So this MP3 economy is very unfavourable, unfortunately for the performers, for the authors. She's in the end line unfavourable for biographies. However, it is the most money-loving biographies that are discographers. Let's put it this way. Of the hundred percent of the money that should go towards these three rights holders, some 12% get the authors. They've been very good at negotiating their position. Artists if they are happy and have a contract and if they are the main performers get about five to six percent addictions on how they negotiated their position. We're mostly talking about following musicians here. They don't get anything for two reasons. The first thing that's legally unregulated. Second, there are no quality contracts. And third, that performers get a one-time fee when shooting, but that doesn't mean they don't have a pro futuro right to provide for themselves and their followers some money from those sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31889	Thank you. Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31890	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Party. I'm going to refer a little more to this Spanish report. Let me just ask you a question. The fact is that the Spanish report states that the entire impressive number of performers or followers or main musicians has been collected over the past 20 years. And you yourself said in your first presentation that it was a long trip, that the English have been handling it for hundreds of years. But do you still think that this way, the way of collective protection, even though it will probably cost us a few decades of work, is still good and perhaps one right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31891	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31892	I am convinced that our minister, who is strong and is also a musician, will agree with me. So I have, through the serious work of 300 pages through a serious amount of hypothesis and auxiliary hypothesis, proved that the stakeholders of the music industry process don't understand much, and that's one part, a sphere in which it's difficult to explain to people the difference between material and immaterial ownership and their rights. I am convinced that we will find a model by which we will still respect what is imposed on ourselves, which is that this part of the right is protected in the collective protection system because, individually, this and the practice shows us, that and all the legal solutions show, and this Spanish model, which, I would say, is a positive and German desire to make that kind of change and step and France, too, so that this is something, that this is the way to go to get rid of those rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31893	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31894	Your Honor, you may have been unwittingly through your debate, or through your colleague Hajdukovic's reply, offering a solution to how to share the funds. One should also be author, performer and discographer and problem solved, lost on one side, but age on the other side. Okay, joke, kid. What I'm interested in is about your discussion and your database. You said that all those data should be recorded in one database. Please, do you have any idea who needs to form that database, who needs to be maintained and how to log into that database?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31895	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31896	Okay. Thank you. So look, it means that collective protection would happen, you have to fill out a form called power of attorney. When you fulfill the power of attorney, you give some kind of protection and distribution society the right to represent you legally to the users. In that sense, unfortunately, I have to say something from this pay phone, it's a lot of personal interests, and in the end of the line when you look at the cost of protection it varies, it's kind of a linear view of around 24% in ZAMP while, say, it's a lot less easy to agree on, and in that sense, it would be best if there were one base and in that base, that base could be searched both by author and by artist and by accompanying musicians and by name, in the end of the line this and by everything that we have, thanks to digital eating, certain codes and so on. However, in general, it's all very expensive, driven by personal interest and money, each has its own base, so there's a deal on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31897	Mrs. Devereaux. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Škoro, and you yourself pointed out that during your musical career you have found yourself in all three roles, so also as authors and performers and discographers and indeed listen to your debate with interest because first of all I appreciate your professional experience, and then your academic knowledge in this area, if I am not mistaken and the topic of your doctoral dissertation has been somewhere focused on this area and it is evident here from all the debates today that the relationship between the performers and the discographers is really complex and that both sides have their own and difficulties and specificities in view of the circumstances and challenges of the digital market. And I'm glad you're representing the position that you need to find an optimal solution and so I'm really interested, I know you can't answer in one minute, but I'm wondering if you have a concrete proposal for a fair model and a concrete proposal for a solution, which would greatly help everyone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31899	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, therefore, my dear colleague sits in your ranks, and even as the author of some songs, Mr. Ivanovic, and he is certainly the best witness that he as a musician who participated in the production and recording of many songs in this regard does not receive any compensation. The solution exists, the solution must be a bit drastic, it won't be perfect, but the time ahead will allow us to perfect that whole model. So, unfortunately, we have to translate one part of these or, fortunately, individual rights into collective rights, and especially when it comes to following musicians, and we need to find that ratio that will satisfy both sides. We will hardly lift the authors up, touch them, they sleep on the upper bed in this relationship, finally the law is called about copyright and related rights, these are related rights that can be spoken regardless of what another directive and experience from Europe says, yet with us regulate in a way that we are the leaders in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31901	My colleague Škoro, for a moment, I'm interested in one thing. You said the authors don't, they don't get this It's, I'm not, I'm not okay, I don't get it. [[You don't understand the attacks on the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31902	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's the vice president of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31903	No, no, no, no, no, I'm not interested in this because for one reason that you might be interested in, it's that those who wrote opera libres were getting more money from composers, so I wanted to make an example of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31904	Yeah, I'll tell you, I'll tell you this, so I think it'd be good if you and I...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31905	And I'm giving myself a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I wanted to contribute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31906	...maybe we'll have a drink, have a cup of tea on that subject, I'll tell you that the law provides, forgive me...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31907	Sir, sir, well, well, we'll talk to you in person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31908	The law stipulates that the distribution ratio 65% is to the music author, 35% to the text author. The arrangements had something before, and then we avoided it. Yeah, you're right, people who had a printing machine used to make money when they were pushing, I don't know, Immanuel Kanta, and Immanuel Kant didn't get anything, but that changed in the meantime. Gutenberg, Gutenberg made... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31909	Okay, well, well, well, otherwise we'll both get injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stipo Mlinaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31910	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31911	Excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31912	I'm sorry to interrupt your conversation with you this time, although my colleague stole Mr. Vice President's question, how to get to the complete database that you spoke about in your presentation or who has it or might have it with that database as please your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31913	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31914	Thank you very much. I think that both in this assembly and in politics, and in a business from which private entrepreneurship from which I come is always a matter of agreement. If we sit down and we make a deal, I think we can make a deal. I think we'll agree with the Ministry of Culture who's trying to put in front of us a proposal that I personally think makes sense and it's one step forward, but it's not perfect. One part of the people isn't satisfied, that part of the people isn't small, especially in these conditions, and we need to help them get a fair fee. Data bases are currently controlled by the Associations for the Protection of this and the distribution of collected money. There are very friendly people sitting there, and they need to be sat down, and they need to be agreed, and the bases need to be united, and that won't be any problem if they're in good faith. However, in order to be of good faith and to have any agreement, each of us must have a part of our integrity delegated and transferred to someone else and it should be understood that it is part of a great mosaic in which we are all trying to make a improvement for these people who are part of a great industry called the creative cultural industry, but about it some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31915	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Škoro, you have made quite an emotional approach to this subject which is completely understandable to me but in one part I cannot agree with you when you claim to be an average performer, so there are very good songs of yours that we like to listen to, so it must be said here and publicly. I was a representative in the European Parliament when numerous well-known Croatian performers came to lobby to support the Copyright Directive because they felt that this directive could contribute to the protection of the rights of authors across Europe. And I really think that, in spite of the many objections we have experienced at the time in the adoption of that directive, this law is actually a reflection and somehow follows those provisions. And it seems to me that we went one step further because we know that performers are really in big problems because of digitization and that no solutions have been found. But as far as I have seen through this law, through at least three articles is trying to cure myself if I can say the rights of the performer, so do you think that's one positive step and the effort our country has made in relation to EU regulations?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31917	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31918	Of course, I totally agree with you. First of all, thank you for not thinking I'm an average performer, but here I am trying to be as modest as possible, and we all love those songs of our own as children. What I'd say hello is definitely a desire to regulate it. I think we can all agree that this little bit late is the whole world having a problem with that. So, legislation relative to digitisation, information late, the Internet did what it did, we all have a common perception of it, but we need to help these people. I thank both you and everyone who has advocated this, I know that colleagues have gone up, many times it is difficult to explain, and on the other hand you always need to know who you have when you negotiate with him. On the other hand, there are people who have built big companies, who are in the so-called The transfer of ownership made huge amounts of money and it's hard to talk to them if they're gonna tell me they're sleeping on the top bed, but we can be the ones who won't put our fat geese on their necks. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31919	Thank you. I apologize again for the intrusion, but we'll continue the conversation. Mrs. Mariana Puljak is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31920	I thank the chairman. Here is a start to expand the question that I have put into question as a replica of the minister that we think that this proposal does not strengthen the freedom of entrepreneurship in these creative industries but, contrary to the EU principles, strengthens the monopoly of collective societies, for example. ZAMP puts authors in a position that they can exercise their rights exclusively through such organisations. By contrast, market freedoms in the EU common market are declaring the principle of choice, so free will for authors to choose who will represent them on their own, but within the EU, authors can even choose a collective organisation of another member just to make the system more competitive. Therefore, the question of the presummation of representing rightholders as basic assumptions for the conduct of collective organisations has been wronged. Therefore, in all EU countries, the presummation of representation concerns rights that can be achieved exclusively collectively while in relation to so-called ‘the European Union’. individual rights leave choice for rightholders. This proposal sets out a presummation so that it includes collective and individual rights, leaving no right to choose for rightholders. Therefore, in general, the draft strengthens the role of these collective societies in terms of the representation of authors and other carriers through the presummation. This approach is problematic because it is contrary to EU directives declaring the principle of choice, so the authors and other rightholders have the right and the option to choose to exercise their rights either on their own or through specialised legal persons or a selected collective society. In any case, any model selected by the basis of representation should be the authorisation of the rightholder of power, contract and so on, otherwise, the strengthening of the monopoly of collective societies, and in the EU it is very clearly defined which collective rights they may not be. Such a law also favours the employer's employer who will make an uninterrupted use of copyright, and as a consequence of this law will be subject to the protection and status of working relationship because many employers will decide that they do not have the need for authors because they retain their copyright portfolio anyway. Such a proposal for a law is not intended for European regulation and there was no legal obligation for such changes. So far, the Copyright Act has been regulated that if copyright works are created in the performance of the work relationship, the labour contract determines, among other things, whether the employer acquires the right to exploit the copyright and, in particular, if it is acquired by the scope and duration of the right to exploit the copyright. If this law, working contract or other act governing a working relationship is not different, the copyright in the copyright shall be reserved by the author without restriction. The subject-matter was reserved by the author to act without restriction while under the new law, if it is not otherwise arranged, the employer acquires all property rights in the copyright created by the author. This puts the author in an unfavourable position and facilitates the employer's decision to cancel, since he retains all property rights to copyright. Since the largest part of the labour contract or of the work contract contains typical provisions which do not regulate the rights after termination of the employment relationship, it is clear that the employer will, in most cases, obtain all property rights in copyright works. One detail of this draft, Article 197. According to that article, it is authorised without the authorisation of the holder of the right and without payment of compensation for the use of copyright and related rights during the national ceremony. This provision is particularly problematic. It represents a kind of precedent regarding ownership rights. It is necessary to complement the way in which copyright works can be used during the national ceremony, but to ensure fair compensation, for example, from the Fund to encourage appropriate artistic cultural creation, because for example, in various inaugurations of state celebrations, protocols, etc. are paid mainly by performers, ensembles, so all those participating in the protocol. Thus, there is no reason not to adequately pay both authors and rightholders. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31921	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31922	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister, the Honorable Director. The protection of copyright and fair compensation to authors for their actions is really very important. This is a serious task that needs to be fulfilled by this unusual age in which we live and in which we will surely continue to live, and this is the age of digital technologies. And this is really particularly important for Croatian authors. We're a small country. Their market is relatively poor. So this is our Croatian relatively poor and it is important that the rights of the author be protected because otherwise let's be honest. They will have neither creation nor life. On the other hand, on the wider European and world market, their only chance is to have large systems such as the EU and to have developed and developed copyright and related rights protection. And now allow me to in this debate I will focus on one topic which is my subject. I think in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament I am the only architect. There was more of us in another congregation, but I don't think we're here. So you have a part that's of course that the public's lights are kind of focused on certain topics. I was particularly intrigued by those articles that spoke of copyrights created in the state and public service. In public higher schools in scientific, artistic and teaching work, and copyrights of students who are equally created in higher schools by fulfilling their student obligations. So that's it. We now have that in a certain way regulated. Seems to me it's good to have it regulated. It is also regulated by the contract to create the authorial work by order, but it seems to me that it is not sufficiently precise and that it would be better to specify something more detailed. And now I'm going to have to do with architecture. So a very simple example and a simple way. We don't have it well regulated in law today. Not once did I meet in my real practice with the fact that the question is very simple. At a residential building that was the result of the competitive work, a man or a tenant says we're going to close the logs, we're going to close the logs because they're sneezing, because they're troublesome and they're going and they're asking who they're asking. They're coming to the author. You have an author who says ok. Come on, I'll make some kind of suggestion on how to make it in accordance with the Copyright Act. There are authors who really have a problem with that. So when does one architectural work begin at all? It starts with sketches, starts with studies, starts with different displays, ends with ideas projects, plans, main projects, implementation projects. And now it's a theme, so it's an interest of any architect. It's an interest to have his building built. So it's not interested in having hot and beautiful plans and sketches so it keeps them at home on the wall and shows what he's projected, but to have it done to him. And when it's done then with some contract, and now the subject remains the way he arranged between the employers, so whoever ordered it, it's the client and the author. I've done it a few times, I'll do it again this time. So this is the proposal we have in law. It would be very good to be with the society of architects, or once again, to be seen. So I absolutely appreciate the effort to regulate something. We have this regulated this way. When the law comes into force, we'll see whether it's the best way or not. It's the only test of any law. So, this relationship between employers and authors with me going back one step. I find this story interesting, and it's authorial works that were created in government and public service. We've got a special subject, I've got a little more time, so the topic is spatial planning. So the spatial plan is someone's author's work. Today, this spatial plan, who brings it? The municipal city councils, i.e. the County Assembly, or whatever. It's a question of any change in that spatial plan, which means. Yes, I am only opening the topic and the very dilemma that is opening up to us, because we have some EU members. I'm talking about Slovenia. which has it differently regulated than we do and has it regulated. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31923	Thank you. Replica Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31924	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your colleagues Mrak-Taritash have touched this special profession and we could talk about the problems of this particular profession for a long time. I'm getting circumstances one of my very good friends is an architect. But I want to ask you something in the context of exactly what you mentioned and these are copyrights. You told every architect's interests that, of course, his project was built in space, so he had his form and purpose. But you said that in fact how much of this the architect would be compensated, or how much conditionally he would benefit from, depends on a contract he would sign with a performer or someone who was building in space what he had done. But my question is different. Since this may be related to performers’ musicians, what if it is a type building that will be built many times as we had through the POS programme and what contracts were for these architects. Were they compensated only once or more?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31925	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31926	So, when it comes to type houses, a special solution is issued and it is compensated once. It can be done several times and there's a problem. So someone can have an authorial work on architecture, and that's why his house was built. He made a contract, and the one he contracted with is basically some kind of construction firm or corporate company. When the same house goes to make somewhere else it's a topic, but there's still a problem that is. The architect builds a house and a house which is his vision to be light, white, all kind of airy or anything else. And once whoever ordered the job from him says that white paint pisses me off, I'll paint it. I'm so good at green. It's not protected, it doesn't need any consent. It's not a subject or any kind of permission. And this guy happens to be driving down that street and doesn't recognize his house. So things aren't simple. I absolutely appreciate it better that they're regulated now than they aren't now because it was a problem that wasn't regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31927	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31928	Your Honor, you, with your specific knowledge, which is very interesting to us since we have very little to do with it. I would be interested when, in which case and for how long, I could protect these copyrights of individual authors, or certain architects and performers who were present in that part because I had one problem when I had to work on the reuse of a building in Split, the author appeared, was still alive, reported, and said that he simply did not allow one part of that building to be redeployed even though it was necessary for the company. It just couldn't be done, and the building was 40 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31929	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31930	Architecture is real. I'm not going to say that everyone for their activity says, but it's specific to you and it's something different. I'll tell you the experience I had as someone who was on the other side. There was a building that went into reconstruction and I was looking as someone who signed those approvals there that couldn't go into reconstruction, but to look for an author because it was really about your case. And we were looking for an author and the author didn't give consent. The investor said, he called on the copyright law at the time who didn't say anything about it, to be honest, he didn't say anything about it. And said based on what are you looking for me? I had no basis. And then it ended up the way the investor did it, and then the author sued that investor. How the court ended, I don't know. This solution that we're discussing here is better than what we have today, because today we don't have that defined. If we wanted better, we would, but we have to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31931	Thank you. No more replicas. Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing the Law of Copyright and Related Rights since the morning and it's somehow been crystallized that the key point that we've all agreed on is that we need to work it out, work it out and discuss the relationship between the performer and the discographer when it comes to the right to a fair fee, even though other parts of the law deserve attention, but this is kind of a problem that came to the surface. And so here's why I want to make my contribution to this topic. I'll just try how long it allows for some facts to be summed up. First of all, this Directive on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market recognises this weaker position of the artist's author compared to publishers and producers, and introduces new mechanisms to strengthen the position of the artist's author over publishers and producers, i.e. if we want to speak thus to the performers in relation to the publishers. And all of these mechanisms, therefore from the directive, are incorporated into the bill. Now here I have it, so you can see it if the law reads the article by article. So I can identify myself. Now we have one point of dispute between the two associations. One is the Association of HUZIP, which represents performers, another ZAPRAV which represents discographers if I understand it well from the memo and contacts me personally as representatives and as chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Now HUZIP or performers, their association wants an inalienable right of compensation. And when we view it that way, then we must be aware that it is contrary to the principles of contractual freedom set out in the directive, more specifically its Article 18(2). And we must also be aware of the fact that in the case of the performers themselves, some of whom prefer and different business models question legal certainty regarding the existing contracts between the performers and the discographers. And that also raises the question, let us not forget that the entry and development of foreign digital music services into the Croatian market because they oppose such a business model that has not been applied anywhere so far, and thus in some ways makes it impossible for Croatian users to access the wider range of digital services common on other markets and then encourages illegal access to music content. And I will also remind you that in any of the existing draft national laws of the EU Member States transposing the directive there is no provision on the inalienable law of the performers. On the other hand, we have an association of APRAVs representing biographers who feel that they do not want and express such an attitude that they do not want any commitment and want everything to remain the way it used to be, as it was before. that the issue of transfer of rights of exploitation and compensation to performers continues to be resolved by individual contracts. Now and on the third hand, we have what brings us the proposal of this law that offers an optimal solution, i.e. the collective bargaining that before associations and performers and biographers commits to agree because in creating and commercialising music, music videos as a final product for the market are inevitably connected and directed to each other and simply have to be able to agree. And if the negotiations fail, the bill also provides for appropriate dispute resolution mechanisms through the Council of Experts and arbitration, etc. And finally, I think it's important to note. Under this bill of law but also under the current applicable copyright law and related rights law which is in force, there is a possibility that digital rights perform collectively in the digital environment, except that the existing law does not stipulate that they must achieve this collectively. So that option is kind of prescribed. Now, since everything I've just said is good to get this out of hand, it's good to get the collective bargaining issue done. Once again, I would like to point out and thank the Minister for her interest in giving us all our contribution. and to achieve one consensus because it is very important that both sides in this situation be adequately rewarded. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31933	Thank you. Stay. Mrs. Pettir first asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Bedekovic, you spoke of a subject that dominates today's debate, which is the relationship between the author and the performer. I would touch on another topic that is extremely important, and it is a question of this law, so even the whole movement has appeared when the directive was being passed and now at national levels where citizens are being questioned whether they will be entitled to the Internet. It is clear that this law regulates copyright and does not regulate news or information, i.e. right of citizens to news or information. I know that both the Dutch and the French have passed laws that had no repercussion on the rights of citizens, so I'm curious whether the adoption of this law will actually allow the Internet to remain a place for freedom of expression, and on the other hand what we wanted the technological giants to start sharing incomes with artists and journalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31935	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31936	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very Well, I absolutely agree with you, and I absolutely agree with that view that citizens and Croatian citizens as well as other EU citizens still have the right to information, have the right to the Internet, have the right to spread, to share, to dissemination on one side. Because in the focus of this law, such as performers, biographers, so all actors of the creative and cultural industry must be also in the focus of Croatian citizens. Because in fact, this law applies not only to these stakeholders that we are talking about today, but above all to Croatian citizens, and on the other hand, I would say the monopoly of large ones, and that is why, among other things, I said it in my opening debate and in the name of the club, this law primarily protects the creative industry and Croatian national culture, including the monopoly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31937	Thank you. Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31938	Dear MPs, I am pleased to see that this debate on performers has produced fruit and that we are all aware that it needs improvement and that it will work to adapt the legislative framework. The fundamental intensities of this law is, as MP Petyr said, that we in some way regulate or penalize these large internet platforms so as to protect our human copyrights. But what to do when the process is reversed, when our contents are not protected because we have not yet come to this stage to think of them as copyright works, everything we write is being transmitted from the Internet on which it was created in these classical traditional written media. Is there any way we can legally regulate that, and should we?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31939	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31940	Yes, thank you very much, dear colleagues for this matter. And that's a really interesting question, so one reverse situation. I believe that you have also found yourself, as I have found myself in my profession, in situations that my authorial, so in one way or another, from that one, my original form spreads to the side that I never expected, nor did I want it to spread. And in any case, it is necessary to think that both such situations are met and that such situations in one way or another try to resolve this law. So I'm extremely glad that this law, and we haven't talked about it, is a shame, so maybe in the second reading, when there's another debate I'm looking forward to talking about copyright as well. bound to high-school teaching materials. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] I assume that's what you were aiming at in your replica. We can keep talking about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31941	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31942	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31943	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right. He's got it? I thought he was gone. Where did you come from? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31944	Thank you very much. Copyright means property. I'm curious. I asked the minister here a lot of musicians called me. So in Croatia we have one of these creative industries that is currently in Europe, and also in Croatia and a great contribution to GDP. They're creative industries. But I'm interested in ZAMP, that's what I asked, because people who are authors, who are composers. I'm curious here what the relationship is, i.e. The share of the paid, that's what I asked, I didn't get the answer, which stays in ZAMP. It means because it's obvious that ZAMP is creating its own empire. And I don't mind creating my own empire, but obviously here at the expense of the author and of those we talk about whether it's the composers, whether it's the performers or those who do it right by law. I can say I'm interested in a lot of questions, and of course the minister can answer, as well as colleagues and colleagues. Let's say we have a number of songs in the Republic of Croatia that our politicians sing on social networks. Let's say the Chavogs were best sung by Mr. Peja Grbin, the best performance mostly in the part where "home ready" is mentioned. Is that settled too? Maybe. And that on social networks was perhaps the most visible song and performance. And combat, seriously. I have a battle in that rhythm and I'm the best singer. And I don't know how that part's solved or how I'm drinking maybe a warlord or some other song. It is decided that in what way the right of the author has been resolved, because apparently the monopoly here prevails. It's big companies or record companies. I'm not going in here right now, she's talking about the architects, she's talking about some other industries, and I'm talking about the music industries right here. I know one remembers the time when the anthem played, i.e. The school seemed to be opening up in Kaštela or somewhere down there, and then ZAMP directed or someone, some punishment, something happened, something similar happened. I know it was something like that, maybe the minister can explain it better, so I don't know if they're paying the authors of an anthem or the composer of an anthem or the composer or the performers. So that's how you've defined that part already if ZAMP got so much monopoly over all the composers and everyone. Here I have a few questions that have been answered. Or, for example, I came here with a mask of blue alka here. And I'm going to stress that brand all the time. For example, everyone's wearing that brand of blue alka now. Does that charge anyone? Not me, I mean it's not my alka, it's 1715. For years, he ran after winning the Turks with a magnificent defence of Islam, of course, with the help of the famous lady of Sinjska. But I brought that mask and now a lot of people want to bring it. Now, I'm gonna make sure that all the Parliament's alka representatives, the masks, the cover-up from the covid that you have masks on your son's alka. But it's a whole set, and someone's making money on it. Someone's selling it now, someone's making money, and our institutions that would protect it, which the Tribals would make from, say, a Knight's Alkar society that could make a marketing profit, I don't know if it made a request to protect that knight's-alkarian society at all, so they don't have to ask the prime minister every alka. Any prime minister when I'm talking about funding and having to be exactly what it is for all of you from the government to determine exactly where they're going to sit in an honorary box and worship you. No, but we're glad you're coming in for a drink, to help. We have a beautiful museum. So some things can and can be solved much better on copyright, because the alka is, of course, synthetic, that's what I said as an example. Or let's say this brand of damage is what's going on, I don't know, it got in my hand this morning. This mask probably says about one minister, so here's so much promotion about the minister, endangering the environment and destroying the economy that we wear that mask too. Now I don't know if a man could have been protected by your fellow minister, so here I am interested in so many things and so many questions here are unclear and unresolved. Here's what I'm gonna do if I sing the Chavogs like our fellow MP sang, and there's a lot of exams. Who's got the money? Copyright and who pays for it. Would I have to pay, Mr. coat of arms or not? Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31945	Wait, wait, wait. You have one replica of Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31946	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, in your interesting presentation, you reminded me of another problem and that is the problem of our cultural and artistic societies that perform at these openings as you said different from anthem to different what national treasures sing, which some authoric. And then these cultural and artistic societies that aren't actually profitable and it's hard to even finance them have problems when they get their ZAMP tickets. So here's how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31948	That's why I'm saying there's a lot of unsettled space here. We have social networks today. I can now record the song of the Battle of Chavogs as I said where your colleague Grbin sang well that part of "for home ready". In that part, he was the best, and he gives me the best impression. And now let's say that I mention it and sing it, of course, as a celebrity that this, someone's copyright composer, performer, I'm going to use it. So, it's a tie. Since social networks are a triba solution to people who deal with creativity, music or other activities, we have meaning other industries, other ways that simply those authors can't. Triba find ways to make the author and owner of it and ensure that it is easier and faster to protect its copyright. I also spoke of my Sinjian alca, which could be a brand world dish, that Alka as an alkica herself, but apparently no one takes care of it, and someone makes good money on it, except Sinj, Sinjan and Sinjska Alka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31949	Thank you very much. Yet you did not demand what was most important. Mr. Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Director. Here today is a pleasant time to sit in HS, listen to all these debates that he said would go to once. First let me say a few words of course the Copyright Act and related rights is a very complex matter, there is a terrible lot of pages somewhere around 2,000 pages which text, which remark means one extensive material. I want to thank the minister first of all here. Since the first session of the board, when we put this agenda item on the board, it has shown an exceptional interest in what today's biggest opposition is being held here in HS, and this is the relationship between the performers of the biography, here it is sitting here and William Matula and Mr Pavić and Mr Kuzmanić, we immediately realized that it will be one of the perhaps biggest problems. I would say that this problem is absolutely resolved, and we also found it at the beginning when the minister on behalf of the promoter said that in the time ahead, we would create a thematic session where we would invite both biographers and performers and listen to both sides and then in the second reading of the law at the end and change. I also want to thank another man, this is Stanko Saric, who is the frontman of the "Best Croatian Tambursts" of the former "Golden Ducats" who made an extremely big effort in favour of the performers, they have come to realize that this is the moment when we can do something about it. And another thing that I find quite important today is that no one mentioned it. And this corona crisis has just come to this and has led us to the fact that performers are out of work, and they really don't have it here for more than 10, 11 months, practically one good part of them is without any income, and it's a good thing that maybe this law we're discussing in this time where we are now is that at some other time maybe even the performers wouldn't notice what's missing in this law and maybe somehow what's being said under the radar. I am the author and has a hundred songs, and as far as authorship is concerned, I think the absolute law is perfect, copyright is protected in that part, you have heard from Miroslav Škore the author of the text gets 65%, the author of music gets 35% of some kind of cake, the author's work is inalienable, the author receives a fee or a fee from a tantium for his life, then transfers his author's work to one of the followers and the next 70 years follower and his followers have the right to do the author's work. After these 70 years, the authorial work becomes essentially owned by the Republic of Croatia and becomes a national good. It's about being absolutely and perfectly solved. These discussions that were being held here were going in one maybe direction not to know the whole procedure, so here I am finally going to respond a little bit to Mr. Bulju. This law does not resolve how ZAMP and HUZIP will distribute their money, it is something entirely different that has nothing to do with this law and cannot give that answer to either the minister or any of us. I think ZAMP retains about 24% of the total income from what is collected from the tantium, 24% of the ZAMP, and the rest that remains is allocated to those people who were authors. So here is the full support of all of you and all of us who have participated in this debate today, here is precisely for the benefit of these beautiful people whom most of us may not even know our names, and they have played some of the most recognizable shares that we may all be singing today, and we don't know who did it. Therefore, I agree that this part should be improved and the biographies agree that there is space there that we can agree on, that this law can be passed and that it is just and just for the biographies and for the performers alike. Of course, the most we're talking about music, it's not just about music performers, of course there's actors and people who deal with other industries when it comes to cultural activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31951	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Raspadic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31952	Dear colleague. So far, we've had a situation, and maybe this is all the result of the artist's revolt against the situation so far that those main performers who had even received a fee for using the works, their actions on such platforms were not informed of exactly what they were getting the compensation for, but they were getting some kind of explained flat-rate sums. Is this perhaps the reason why they are so rebelling against this bill today, and would that part of how they should be informed of their fees that they deserve to be regulated legally or sublegally?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31953	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31954	I agree and I receive such a report myself where it says I got 12 kunas and 17 limes, and I don't have a list of works for which I got those 12 kunas and 17 limes. And I agree that this should be settled, but of course it should be resolved by our roof associations that we have authorized to represent us when it comes to copyright protection, certainly space, especially when it comes to digitalism, and this whole story is focused on whether there are no more records, no more tapes, no CDs, but everything on digital platforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31955	Mr. Hrvoje Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31956	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, directors, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's Mr. Ivanovic, my colleague's question for you, I've been listening to your debate, as well as all the participants of today's debate. Of course, apart from the conference on certain topics, the most called working body in this case is the Media Committee that you mentioned yourself in your discussion. You have noted that it will be held between 2 readings of this law and the thematic session, so please explain exactly what the Media Committee expects and what we, as representatives of the Media Committee, can expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31957	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31958	Thank you very much. That's what I said at the introduction, the introduction to this debate. I would like to thank the Minister and all the members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media who have given the Rings and put this into focus and the public and the Croatian Parliament and we will sit on both sides and try to make a solution that will be equally just and just for everyone and hope that this agreement will come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31959	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Ivanovic in Croatia has about 18,000 music performers and you mentioned yourself no more CDs and tapes all moved to digital platforms, and we see that the value of music is completely broken on them. Since 2014, there has been a single digital market and that can sell exclusively Croatian music. According to some of my information on television, about 25 million kunas of digitalism are being marketed here, about 2 million kunas. Since you are the author of songs that are mostly dedicated to Slavonia, so you sing about Slavonia and Srijem, Baranja, she is famous for your song My has given a lot of work, so these are songs that are being listened to, so I wonder if you can tell me how much in fact by performing those songs you can even profit from besides having this emotional satisfaction that people like to listen to your songs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31961	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31962	Well, I still don't have a pool, I don't have a house at sea, I don't have anywhere. From the songs you can achieve the tantiums. But what doesn't need to be disturbed with the mind, we text and music authors still most of the cake we get from tantium is from the performance of our songs performed by these performers at their public performances for which you have to pay in weddings, parties, inn, or anywhere, there we get 1/3 of the total income we make. Therefore, the connection between performers, authors and biographers must not be interrupted by a series that is one closed circle in which everyone practically says we would lose if we did not respect these things and bring the law to that level. And now that I'm going to become a millionaire one day, I probably won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31963	Who knows about the future We'll see. [[And I know.]] I want you to become. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I am pleased that you mentioned it, and it is important to highlight the time in which we are discussing this bill, and this is the crown crisis where many performers have indeed lost their engagement on one side, and where all of us in isolation were, among other things, self-insulation, and among other things, they have provided us with an elan, support and gave us strength, and I am glad that you mentioned the fact that the authorship is not problematic and it actually belongs to the category of copyright. While performers therefore belong to the category of related rights and there is a much more problematic team than the artist is rarely just one, but there are more than vocal performances, than instrumental performances, etc. and on all this, the relationship between the performers and the discographers that each of these groups in the digital age has on the digital market its specificities and its difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31965	Thank you, thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31966	Thank you very much for asking. What may still be important to emphasize, performers when recording works they still make one part of the revenue, so that it is not considered that performers do all this volunteering, free of charge, so they get nothing. They get a discographer to sign contracts, and it's exactly how much the lead performer gets, how much they get by following the vocal, but now we have the same problem that often performers or these not main performers, but those who are behind often take some kind of fee that's one-time and just that money disappears, they spend it, and then they don't have any more, they don't have any other rights. Now that's the problem, this law should make it a little better that when they come in some years and when they're not maybe so many top performers that they're still getting part of the income, here's the point of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31967	Thank you. And finally, the last replica, Mr. Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31968	The esteemed colleague was partly covered by this earlier replica you were saying, I was interested in your opinion means about the distribution between the discographers, the authors, the performers, we're not, of course, talking about these most famous performers who may be the authors we're talking about now mean less famous performers, which you think is whether, in a satisfactory amount, they're involved in the distribution of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31969	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31970	There will always be this dilemma whether it's adequate compensation was here to discuss clicks on Youtube you can have on a song I don't know 2 million clicks, and that you'll get a 100-th or 200 kuna, that it won't be some kind of money. What needs to be fought, of course, that this law will not work out, we have to fight against big platforms that take enormous money, and in fact they're pouring some kind of crumbs in here, and to exclude all that the authors, the performers, they probably gave that network, or that platform, they wouldn't even follow. It's things that can't just settle this law, it's about something much bigger and much wider, but that we have to fight and that we're going to fight anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31971	Thank you, too, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Domagogy's story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31972	The respected vice president of the assembly, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, in today's world copyright protection is of paramount importance especially because of the large share of the gross social product and the copyrights are linked to major economic interests. That's why copyrights are being dealt with by law. In the case of Croatia, we also have an additional issue of harmonisation with EU legislation. Copyright enables the protection of the rights of those who created them and their property interests. The modern economy is based on creativity, intellectual property and it is logical to protect the rights of authors and related rights. When we talk about regulation, it must be such that the best for the economy and for everyone, for all stakeholders. Of course, it is important for solutions to be such as to respect the interests of different parties, but also to respect the power that each party has. If we have a question about the music industry, they are not in the same position as the big company's discographers and performers. A large part of the less famous performers are individuals who make incomes for themselves and their families, and we need to take special care of them. When we talk about protection of rights, we should always respect the opinion of the profession. The people working in that sector certainly know best the problems that exist, so their concrete proposals should be accepted. It's important to talk. And on this bill there are many criticisms, of course it is not possible to satisfy all opinions and interests, but it is necessary to have a dialogue with the parties in order to reach consensus if possible. The topic is the importance of the position of the economy because it is about rights in the music, movies, TV series, books and many others. In this way, those who created them receive a return for their work and are rewarded. Just by allowing the realisation of property rights and interests, we motivate even better and more creative ideas in the future. We motivate them to further work and create new values. This gives support to new employment ideas and through the business activity of new income for the creators, their families and tax revenues for the state. So the consequences are economic, but there are other consequences, among other things, social. By ensuring these rights of interest, we are helping to develop the economy. We can expect benefits for the authors, but also for the whole society. Harmonising with European legislation helps to create a common European market in which economic operators compete and creates better and better quality content especially if we know that the European market is made up of 100 million people. How important the creative industry is to best say filmmaking and series in Croatia that help our country's visibility in the world and help the Croatian economy, not to mention how many people are employed in this segment of the economy. It is similar with the music industry that employs a large number of people. The specific issue that opens up is the online platforms on which music videos are displayed as well as movies and series and the problems that arise from this. I hope that criticism will be listened to and suggested by the profession so that the final solution will be in the best interest of all parties. I would also just like to get connected today to talk about a directive that was in the European Parliament why some of the MPs voted in favour, worked at that point on the importance of accessing information. Namely, the characters for the different news that were being told and were thought best to be available as far as possible to a wider circle of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31973	Mrs. Simunic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31974	Thank you, Vice President. An esteemed colleague who you consider by the process of carrying out the work is the most violated by this Copyright and Related Rights Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31975	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31976	Well, I think that's what was mentioned today, and I think it's definitely about the performers. So this isn't about these most famous performers, we know that they often make large amounts, many of them are rich, but a large, large majority of the performers are actually their incomes from which they and their families live. So I think that the performers are the ones who participate in the smallest part of the distribution of money from it, and I think that now and this crisis caused by the coronary virus are the most affected, but they also generally get the smallest share of these revenues. I think the performers are the most hit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31977	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Maria Selak Rasdic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31978	We colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives have fought so unisonly for performers today that I think we also feel the concrete legislative consequences of this corona crisis and we would never have fought so loudly for whose rights we truly have not regained their importance because we can no longer attend any concerts, and we are in fact all in a lack of concrete music consumption. But that's good, in this positive spirit, I'm glad we can get some positive consequences out of this difficult situation that we're all in. As far as the performers are concerned, I think that there is enough said and that the only thing left to hang in the air as a question refers to the consistency of whether their rights should be resolved collectively or individually, consistency in terms of how both copyright and journalistic rights should be resolved equally individually or collectively. I would continue to talk here about another part of the law relating to Article 96 relating to copyright or the relationship between the employer and the author. Therefore, it is said that if an employment contract or other act governing a working relationship concluded between the author and the employer is not otherwise defined, the employer shall be deemed to have acquired exclusive copyright and property rights to exploit the copyright created in the work relationship in the content and scope necessary to carry out his regular activity without a spatial and time limit and irrespective of the termination of the working relationship during which the work has taken place and occurred. It is equally believed that this work was given the employer the authority to publish it, process and translate it, and thus use the composition and other work, etc. So why do I find this question particularly important? First of all, there are cases such as a journalistic profession, but let's say my personal case of someone coming from the sphere of science, who is very careful about the quote, and who has published various columnistic notes that are later processed, because they are dealing with one and the same question and who are becoming both articles and books, etc. The question of whether I may have my own work and in what way I can change it, bring it into a new relationship or in some new form should be my copyright, not the right of the employer to be given to the employer unless the contract provides otherwise. And of course we need to be aware that apart from this framework which the law provides, it is difficult for any other legislative framework to go specifically to work contracts and work contracts, to go hand in hand to the authors. It will rather be that in every way especially in these preeminent professions, and that minimum of their rights will be contained. This is, therefore, one of the few items mentioned today, which is of great importance to the wider community and to a large number of employees and which we should reconsider in the second reading of the law. It should also be borne in mind that this whole context that we are talking about and now we are trying to regulate is based on one form of sharing economy, and this sharing economy which is the way Internet platforms operate is going towards dodging and labour rights. I'll only mention platforms like UBER taxis or RBNB. Therefore, most of these platforms are being built on what happens in practice and consider themselves to be a service itself, i.e. it offers no work protection. So it is hard to believe that we will succeed in this digital world to make a truly crucial step towards copyright. In the digital world, the market operates in one way where profit is taken as a fundamental element, and this profit is not necessarily related to human beings only. So, if some photo shows up in the digital world, we also had a case when selfie made a monkey, then the question arises whether a monkey can have copyright. So these questions show that it's not the same digital world as this real world that this digital world was based on. In that sense, I think we're going to have to think about other ways of getting monopolies that are in the inability this virtual world gives us, and not just trying to protect copyrights, which is probably not going to work out for us at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31979	Thank you. Mr. Rasudic will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31980	Dear MPs, how complicated the story of copyright in the time of modern technology is a good example that can seem bizarre and funny at first sight, and in fact it has opened very serious legal and bioethical questions and animal rights and copyright issues. In fact, it's a British photographer, David Slater, who's been filming wild animals in Indonesia for years. And then in 2011, his equipment happened to be delayed so that a monkey macaki came in, stole the machine and took off a few selfies. And now Slater, when he found the camera, saw that very interesting photos of this monkey's selfie were out. He published them, and then the Animal Protection Association sued him by claiming that the monkey was the author of that photograph and that the monkey population should then belong to the copyright that ended up in court. The point of the debate was whether a monkey could be a legal person. It turned out in the first degree that part of the income should go to that monkey population. Copyright remains on the second-degree Slater in 2018 I give you this as an example of how complicated the copyright situation can be in the time of modern technology. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31981	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31982	That's true, that monkey took a picture of selfie even though the monkey didn't even know what he was doing. When Selfie brought real wealth, then the question was, can a monkey have copyright? It's decided that a monkey can be an interesting author, but he can't have copyright. Well, now that they're authors who don't have copyright, that's the same open question. But it can really be a little funny for us right now. But if we look at what the direction of social development and the opportunities that technology provides, then the open question is how do we treat animals as we do in this particular world, where they have some kind of tantium than their performances that we're going to treat them in this virtual world. There's an open question, I didn't get to look at it more closely now, and that's teaching material. Here we are talking about copyrights of protected content, but there is a large amount of material, especially which is now done, which is not on these platforms from which one can be charged and which no one has protected because so far it is not even known as the process And that's a question that needs to worry us all and that we need to somehow provide a legal framework. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31983	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Which one? And Miro Bulj, I'm not you. That was the last minute, wasn't it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31984	Well, almost, in extensions. Here I'd like colleagues like you said, the problem is the copyright of course monopoly of certain institutions, i.e. The legal framework. I'm interested in this most important thing right now for all people, that's what today's world of digitization means, social networks, copyrights, those that create on social networks. Which you think should change, because it's a fact. I only mentioned one example of one of our colleagues because it's not just Miroslav Skoro singer here, we all know how to sing someone this way and let's say that author when I sing and show it on social networks, that author can't exercise that right. So the question to me now is the digital world of new technology how to solve the right, the copyright of people in what legal form and how other than this monopolies that means disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31985	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31986	In order to resolve this question, we should first answer the question of what these platforms are. This is the question that bothers all of us because these platforms at some point in the development of the Internet and its expansion have been treated in a different way than some classical media. And that's why they experienced their exponential growth, and that's why they accumulated a large number of content. Later, it also appeared as a basic problem because then they do not answer for these contents, and it is also a question of these other rights that are founded in the real world whether they can be applied to them. Let's just say we have a basic problem with Google being and experiencing it even though it's wrong as some kind of neutral platform on which, as a lawn or as a forum we're all stepping on, if you don't let him publish some content without paying for it, he'll say it's censorship. That's what this Google has become to us, and he's not that. What it's meant to be and what we think it should be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31987	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. William Matula's turn, while we clear the pay phone just one little bit of information in four hours we'll have a 15-minute break to clear the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31988	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Copyright and Related First protects creators and their material interests but also aims to make works more accessible for the activities of education, research and preservation of cultural heritage. Educational institutions and cultural heritage institutions as well as other holders of these activities should not be found limited to new rights and new provisions in behaviour, as well as socially useful and largely non-commercial functions in the general interest. All national libraries through the loan mechanism provide equal access to cultural information and knowledge for all members of our society regardless of their social status. Furthermore, given the overall digitisation of the availability of culture and knowledge especially at the time of the limited physical availability we are currently witnessing, but also in general increasing digitalisation of the building, the question arises why Article 188, which sets limits to multiplication for the benefit of individual institutions, why education institutions and cultural heritage institutions did not allow them to make available digitalised content which, based on this article, can reproduce and precisely in accordance with their public purpose of education, preservation of culture and knowledge and remote access in a secure network environment. And this would significantly increase the availability of digitised works especially for those living in environments where educational institutions or cultural heritage institutions do not exist or have very limited construction. Now I would still like to return to the question of filmmakers, given that it is real and per colleague Ivanovic I can suggest that there will be some agreement in favour of, above all, of the performance rights, now I would like to say what the Croatian Society of Film Workers says, as such, they welcome that in Article 15, along with a director who is considered the main co-author of the audiovisual part of paragraph 3. Article 15, as well as other audiovisual co-authors, shall indicate the author of the script, the main cameraman, the main editor of the picture and sound and the composer of the music specially composed for use in that part. Of course, this one is supported, at the same time being warned because they noticed that, for example, some other articles of what was on the e-consumption, such as the former Article 85, which we were already talking about had changed drastically. And that famously about 7 years, however, is the same issue of primary and secondary rights, but they warn that it was actually removed from a highly disputed co-regulatory agreement on the procedure and rules of the procurement of works and independent producers which is this spectral HRT and its team we have already heard about in which direction it is going and which in no way do their reports come into line obviously in this respect, but they have imposed that story on 7 years, particularly. In that part, it is defined, inter alia, that the primary licence package extends over a period of 7 years. In addition to the fact that the document is extremely controversial is not adopted in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, it refers to only one television house and limited types of audiovisual works and since the Law on Copyright and Related Rights regulates a wide range of audiovisual works. In any case, they shall state the preceding article which they have been thinking about and were satisfied with, and in particular this second part of that article says what is important, which is coauthors cannot waive the right to an appropriate and proportionate compensation referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, let alone for 7 years, it was all in there and I think it is unclear why this is gone. We want to believe that before the second reading, it will be legal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31989	The replica was sought by Mr. Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31990	Your Honor, by referring to what you said, I have the impression that the construction of this law lacked both theories and practices. There was a lack of philosophical, aesthetic theories, media theories, and a lack of concrete problems in practice that open up these solutions or a half solution. These aren't new things. Walter Benjamin writes a famous essay, works of art in a period of technical reproduction eighty-something years ago where he's thinking about how new media like photography or film are changing the idea of art, and then the author, that I'm not going to Michel Foucault and the author's idea and all the questions. Because the situation is essentially incredibly complicated when we get into this problem. [[Intruder: I about art aura, yes.]] Let's say your performance of the monodrama is a unique act, but when it's possible for it to be recorded so that it burns or sells to a million CDs, that's another. But today is a step further it's on some kind of cloud where it's nowhere physical, but it can access a hundred thousand or 100 million people. So one complicated reality that I don't think is enough theoretical basis to think about this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31991	Now you can answer. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31992	I'm glad you're quoting the famous Frankfurter Walter Benjamin, that who's seen all these things quite well and who's actually predicted all this that's going to happen later on with the media. However, when you say both the theoretical basis and practice, European practice has shown that it is going in this direction and that the possibility of negotiating those people who are otherwise in a poor negotiating position is strengthened. And I would just like to call on this right now that the minister is known for how we talked about 6 EU countries brought that protection of executive rights. Belgium, France, Estonia, Italy, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland on how, some of them are very rich, but we too, if we want a heritage especially for which we are proud, must do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31993	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Erik Fabianic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31994	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about the Copyright Act. But by reading certain provisions, the law itself does not protect those rights. Copyright is property immaterial. It's a mobile property or whatever we want to call it, I'm not a lawyer, but de facto it belongs to something that's yours if you're the author of something. Whether it's a work, whether it's a performance, and it's an authorship like the same authorship and a collection of other people's works, but you're the author of that collection and its interpretation. They're all copyrights. I will look back on something that is extremely familiar to me as a former journalist who, among other things, took part in the last century in making amendments to the law, the media, communication, information about what was in the trend at that time in Croatian. And the journalist when he writes his text whether the essay, is something that is a Croatian journalistic story because it is a form of journalism that exists only in Croatia from the old journalistic tradition, is it a comment, is it five lines from those five basic questions who, where, what, when, how and why. I'm always the author of the text regardless of the contract I have, the contract of action, the fee contract, the contract of employment. I'm the author. My obligations to the publisher are one-off. He can't have a publisher with exclusive copyright because I have a contract with him. This could be discussed in a way to sign an additional contract where I have an obligation, i.e. an exclusive contract. But an exclusive law contract, so I have the right to write only for that publisher that has to be further honored, can't be di perse something that's meant, let alone be established by law. The question of using what I gave the publisher regardless of the contractual relationship cannot be passed on by another publisher if it is for commercial purposes, it cannot and must not be without my consent. He can't, and he can't, because it's not from the publishers, it's from the authors. It's from the author. It's very simple. When we talk about information, about the text, so about the photographer because that's news and video that's a journalistic nature, which is informative nature is also authorial news. It's all authorship. It's given to the publisher once. Any repetition should seek consent if, for commercial purposes, the consent of the author and the publisher who gives the other publishing house or whatever it is. Technology changes, but principles remain the same. We here have a newspaper like a paper medium that we mentioned in that law most. The paper medium disappears, unfortunately but disappears. But here we always talk about the same thing. It just changes the transfer technology, whether it's a theater performance or an author text. But that's the way it is. This law should protect the authors. This law protects publishers and distributors. Bad, no way. Not at all. It's another thing when something is used without compensation. It's clear to me, and in any case, you have to quote the source and author, anyway. Only in case it is for unconventional purposes, i.e. educational, scientific, etc. In that case, no compensation is required but consent may be sought. But if my news ends with a third publisher on his portal who lives on commercials to apologize without compensation to the author and the publisher, that story can't go. He can't go independently on a working relationship and another thing as an author regardless of the working relationship if I'm bound by a contract to a publisher on me is a text that I'm willing to give to the initiative, so not by the work order of my editor, it's up to me without further ado that I can't offer it to another home until I offer it to my home with whom I have a working relationship. But if that house doesn't want to publish my text, she has to, I have the right to put that text on the market. And that should be true not only for journalistic texts but also for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31995	Thank you, thank you very much. Madam Vice President Vosovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31996	My colleague Fabianić, if I have seen well in Article 162 it is quite clear to me that every time a journalist's article is published on the Internet, a journalist has the right to share in a fee that the contract with the publisher cannot be denied, and it is achieved through a collective organisation, which would be good to apply to what we have half discussed today, which is a relationship with the rights of the performer. However, what you have also pointed to is a big problem and I hope that this will be corrected by the second reading and was also the remark of the Croatian Journalist Society that so far under the existing law are actually authors kept copyrights in action without restrictions if it was not otherwise regulated by law. In this case, in fact, all copyrights and their property benefits go to the hands of the publishers, and they rightly warn that which is then the interest of the publisher to keep the journalist not to let him be fired, when the copyright works remain in his possession anyway, or I'm something.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31997	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31998	Dear fellow voters, that's what I wanted to point to. So the purpose and purpose of this law, not now entering certain novels of certain articles, is that we need to protect the authors, not the merchants. And that's the whole story. We have today's legislation, but since the early '90s, we have protected copyright in the way I said it in my debate. So, it's my authority if you're gonna pay the exclusive, so I have to give you my article, if you don't give it to another publisher, even if I'm in a working relationship in that publishing house, because you turned it down. And it's not a question of collective law, it's a question of copyright. The collective right is a matter relating to, exclusively, the tariff part and the labour rights. You can't collectively regulate something that's copyright.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u31999	Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32000	Thank you very much. Comrade Fabianić, you obviously have a solution so here you may explain to me since you represent that the author and he must receive compensation whatever happens in this digital world and whoever takes over his news, he should receive compensation, so I understood. So here we have a daily on the 10 portals in the Republic of Croatia that again journalists create certain news that is once again news from the world of politics, let's say, a show one on HRT and then they're having fun or they're cheating let's say all the same let's say the articles and each conveys it in their own way with a different title. Whoever here needs to get a kuna by you since this is very simple not, and who should have copyright over it since they 10's conveying the same news each in their own way, they all have a different title. Or in the music world then, I don't know what to share or do something to make who should get that money, if it's as simple as you're saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32001	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32002	So basically it's very simple, type your name and last name on Google, go no news on articles and see who's mentioned everything but it's known exactly who you've given a statement to, the other thing are press conferences etc., it's very simple, it's very controlling, it's very, it's not about a world hit that's trying to take off without compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32003	Just keep going, Mr. Fabianic. Are you done? Yeah, okay. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32004	Thank you very much. My dear colleague here I agree with a lot of what you said, on the one hand you have the author of a certain article, and on the other hand you have a publisher who in some complicated situations that I have here even known from some practice, where you have the author of a particular article, you have his editor, you have a publisher. And now it's a matter of responsibility, let's say in the trial when it turns out that the author of that article actually said it, so half of it wasn't written by me but written by my editor under the influence of the publishers. What in these situations?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32005	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32006	These are circumstances that must be established in court, after all, and according to the rules of the profession. Therefore, the author of the article may always deny the editor-in-chief his name in the event that the text is substantially amended. So he can waive his copyright in favour of editorial but then the editor should always be the one responsible for what was published. And the problem is that, most often in our court proceedings, journalists and editors suffer, not publishers whose editorial policies possibly have some difamy, or this one publishes some kind of fake news, but about it in the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32007	And Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32008	Thank you very much, Vice President. So you were talking here about an authorial work that was created in a working relationship, and you actually mentioned it in a way, in fact, one example. So, journalists and publishers, however, what I think is equally clear in the law, says that it is either by working contract or by any other act between the employer and the employer and the worker that this issue can be resolved differently. Also, you mentioned here and the fee, you have in this bill Article 97 which clearly states that in the event that the employers had a certain increase in profits or inflows, then the means must be given to that worker and a specific special appropriate fee is therefore called in this bill. On the other hand, the worker is someone who works for wages, so it was a journalist, and I'm the same in law enforcement society all I do is whatever the author's work I do, whatever I write is actually something that's regulated by my relationship with the employer. So is the same thing with the worker or the journalist and the publisher.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32009	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32010	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32011	Mr. Fabianic, I must give you my word every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32012	What I wanted, what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32013	Mr. Fabianic, Mr. Fabianic! Unfortunately, I have to give you my word that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32014	Thank you. What I want to point out is these are two levels of agreement, one is the right stemming from working relationships, and the other is copyright. I believe it is necessary to specify that exclusive law must be regulated by another contract. A month's working relationship cannot consume an exclusive right to authorship because then it's a lease of something, then it's no longer, it's not an author's work and it has to be protected, it has to be protected That's how it's been so far. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32015	No more answers, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn to finally perform on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32016	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. To bring the public closer to the part of the problem that we are discussing today, I will use a comparison between the library and the bookstore. So, when you buy a book it becomes your property, you can take it home or have it at your own disposal. In the library, borrow as many books as you want or can read based on monthly or annual subscriptions. Borrow the book, read and return, and this relationship lasts until the moment the membership date expires, then you need to restore it to make your books available again. It is about the same model, the same model as the one on the streamyx service, and in principle this model is by many characteristics and the most similar or even identical system so-called. renting the renting rights that exist in this bill as well. For years, it has been established and unquestionable legal practice that when renting a sound carrier, compensation is realized collectively and then divided into 3 equal parts. In the meantime, the distribution ratio for the rental of the sound carrier was one-third to the author, one-third to the performer, one-third to the discographers, i.e. Of 10 kunas of income, let's say 3 kunas and 30 limes each. When renting the same video on the Internet, it turned into a model by which out of 10 kuna income streaming platform 1.20 went to authors, 5.5 kuna to discographers, and the performers were completely out of distribution, i.e. they were incorporated into a record fee. The author's revenues fell greatly, and the discographer's revenues increased dramatically, but the distribution left the performers missing. This drastically redistributed fee from distributors to distributors which is the only cause of the current extreme relations between rightholders occurred in principle illegally on the basis of non-existent contracts or non-existent contracts in which rights of action to the public or what we would call Internet or digital rights were not explicitly stated because at the time the contract was signed they did not even exist. There have already been several cases in Europe where courts have ruled that such contracts are not valid and that they do not refer to the rights of action available to the public, so the discographers falsely represented themselves as authorised representatives of the performance rights in those videos. Discographers are very aware that all these older contracts would fall into a possible court procedure, and they have acknowledged that these rights are trying to solve the annexes of the contract. If, when and if a major performer wants to publish a new video, the discographer must therefore retroactively copy his internet rights for all the recordings he has ever published in that record. The directive left the possibility for national legislators to establish balances through existing or new legislative models in situations where it is obviously disturbed and to provide authors and contractors with... there is little and English, which in other words means that the law requires revision of the existing and impact on future relations between biographers and performers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is almost impossible to implement this rebalancing on an individual basis because it would mean signing thousands, tens, and hundreds of thousands of new contracts or annex contracts that would correct current relations. The only realistic and incomprehensible solution is that states, of course, ours, in the case of this bill, are protected by law by performers and their rights from such a kind of an enemy takeover. The only way to implement such mass contractual rebalancing is, of course, through collective protection. This is not a precedent because collective protection is already being implemented effectively in various areas of mass use. The only organisations that have such data necessary for the implementation of the provisions would be the Association for collective protection of rights. No one in this system would be damaged in any way, all three actors in the music production would exercise the right which their laws so far have guaranteed, and in particular the new directive. Now, I'd like to thank you today for a very high-quality debate on all sides of the assembly, and I'd like to thank Mrs. Ministers and Directors of the State Institute for Intellectual Property in the hope that we will see these proposals or at least one part of them in the next reading, as well as in the final draft of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32017	Thank you very much. Now by 16 and 15 minutes we'll have a break to do, like I said, the winding up of the assembly. 1 559 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,20 HOURS]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32018	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I think that after all these discussions, we can jointly conclude that we are on this extremely important law that we have discussed today, we still need to do a lot of work and that we need to quite stand in consultation with stakeholders who are interested in this law. I hope that all the stakeholders to whom this law applies will send their comments which will be discussed until the second reading, and that the joint conclusions will be included in the final draft of the law. We need to pay particular attention to the satisfaction of all those who, by their work, intellectually and especially their talents, contribute to the creation of new valuable content used by our citizens, especially today when data carriers of multimedia content are almost everyone. A far greater crowd is created when we put it in the context of the Internet, in the context of social networks, in the context of large Internet services and other electronic data carriers, or a distributor of multimedia content. I believe that we will all agree that it is indisputable that this law will limit the legal framework for the protection of copyright and related rights and will certainly adapt to digital society in the most part. However, we have heard through discussions that the provisions of the law will be difficult to satisfy all stakeholders, especially in the music industry, since it is difficult to define ways of distribution of fees between authors, performers and biographers. This is also evident to us, among other things, in the fact that there is currently no single database on works, but everyone, here I think of HDS and ZAMP, means the protection of the copyright and musical rights of the Croatian composers' society at HUZIP, the Croatian Association for the Protection of Artistic Rights and PRAV, the Association for the Protection of Collection and distribution of Phonographic Rights Compensations has its own base. We heard already in the debate, and I will repeat once again, the proposal that this unique base is formed as soon as possible, which will allow for better control, and the representatives of the government can also consider the possibility that all three of those associations join together into one or more of their functions to join into some roof society, so the systems will be even more simplified and... Optimises, costs will be reduced for information systems, and at the same time everything will be more compatible and controlling. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to make it even more clear how much traffic there is in meeting certain interests, I must mention that while we have authors on the one hand, on the other hand, organizations that are pollemising about possible provisions relating to the rights of compensation for digital streaming services such as Spotify, Apple music, Deezer and similar. In addition to stakeholders in the music industry, theatre directors and film directors who expect discussions and their observations and suggestions, and also Google representatives who warn of potential problems because of certain provisions of the law, should note that they are calling for EU interpretations of the directive by large European names. Resuming everything we have heard in today's debates, what we have communicated with interested parties, what we have read in the correspondence received and in e-mails can be said that a great deal has been done so far thanks to the working group and the ministry, that the law has been brought into line with EU directives, but that there is still a great deal to meet other authors' interests, and that there is also a large number of dissatisfactions whose interests through remarks and consultations we will please hope until, until the second reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32019	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash also finished on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32020	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honors Minister and Director. We have before us the first reading of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. We had a very interesting discussion, and what was more important were excellent and the comments that were in the public debate on the bill of law that caused a really terrible lot of objections. There is one proverb, “he was not born to please all. ” And really it's about one very, very, I'd say both hard and complicated and demanding one job because what's the point of this whole law? The point is to create a legal framework in a new technological development where you have to satisfy and enable new production and distribution and exploitation of copyrights and all those parts that are subject and protection of related rights. So it must be possible for the authors to be protected, for the authors to be justly rewarded, and we live at a time when by means of their smartphones that you have here you can absolutely at any time use some things and how do you do it? The key question is how do you do it? It's not simple. If it were easy, I'm sure there wouldn't be this many objections or this many debates. The debate, I hope, was very useful, and that what we get in the second reading will be a better one. That it'll all work out, it won't. If anything could be solved, it wouldn't be possible. That we need to step up and make a law that fits the time we are in, we need to. That he should be given the opportunity to really live in the field and to see how he is in use, we need to. My remark has always been when you have a lot of provisions, so whenever the topic is whether to regulate something more detailed or leave something a little bit more like that, I would say more indicative here is the maker or the ministry decided to go quite in detail, we have 314 articles which is a pretty serious law. But let's see and consider, we have a 2003 law and we'd like this law to define everything and there aren't any pins and everything else impossible, so just to put the frames on. So the basic law is from 2003, and youtube is in fact started in 2005, so we live in another time. I'm still reading books, my kids are doing it differently, they're doing it on a platform. I'm going to the beach with a book bag, my son goes with his own and wonders how I can even read and list. My nieces when I read the papers in the morning say you read the papers, I like to read them, but I absolutely allow that I'm from another time from another story. This law is for some new people and some new stories. And then we have one problem that you never forget, so Croatia is a country that's created, not only have we got our country we and some other things had to do very quickly, when you see how long we've been a state, very little, in the human race it's your blink of an eye, so democracy has developed differently and of course we have unresolved things. Who's the heir to Southton? Who is the heir to certain copyrights? What about that vast archive that is extremely good, which is the archives of HRT or Radio-Television at the time was I not aware of Zagreb? We had one TV, and every Sunday the diary was from another studio, the ones who remember for a long time, and I remember for a long time. So we have this legacy on one side, we have this one archive that we need to keep in mind, we have some legacy that is read in this law, and we have a new time in a new technology. What happens tomorrow? Something new, something different because it's for some new people, for some new story. I won't bother you with the architects, I've been harassing a lot, I've been in college drawing my hand, and today I continue when I have to do something I'm doing with my hand, young people are drawing on my computer, they're all computer programs. Some other time, some other story. This law must make that balance possible to enable the authors to be adequately rewarded and to enable us to use all of what is available to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32021	Thank you. In front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, final Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Your Honors Minister, the Honorable Director. Here we have had almost a day-long debate about a very important and complex law. I believe that the debate was primarily interesting, and then useful for us both for the creators of the law, and what is most important is to obtain a good legal framework for all those who will be users of this law, and these are all those people who deal with the creative and cultural industry in Croatia. And therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I will repeat that the proposed legislative proposal modernises the national copyright protection system and modernises it in line with the needs of today's modern digital society, today's modern digital market, and also in line with the development of an appropriate EU legal framework and, of course, it will further improve certain aspects and the national system. I will also repeat and emphasise that the copyright protection and related rights system is primarily intended to provide incentives for the creation of copyright works as well as for investment in the creation of copyright works and other subjects of protection, but also to ensure public access to these works or subjects of protection, in a way that provides for the return of investment in their creation and the provision of access to the public, i.e. to provide a financial basis for further work on creative activities. And therefore this law is important not only for economic, economic but also for the social aspect of the creative industry in Croatia. Of course, we expect and I will say this more or less, all of us agreed, that the adoption of this law will provide clearer rules for copyright protection and related rights suitable for application in the digital environment, which will naturally achieve greater legal certainty and will certainly contribute to the economic sustainability of creative, cultural and media industries, but also to the preservation of cultural heritage, without distorting freedom of expression and other interests of users of digital content and services. As I said at the outset, and it was crystallized through the debate, so the HDZ Representatives' Club also joins that special attention should be paid to that part of the law, or those articles that regulate the relationship between the discographers and the contractors related to the fair compensation and, of course, we all agreed with that part of the provisions relating to collective bargaining, but also to the new complex relationships precisely because of the new relationships on the digital market, and therefore I will suggest and again point out that, until the second reading, it is the part of the provisions relating to collective bargaining so that both sides, therefore, performers and biographers can achieve a fair fee, i.e. appropriate and proportionate compensation for their respective discriminatory rights and, of course, the goal is to find an optimal solution for both sides, of which each of which, of course, has its own interests, but also has its own problems and specificity of the future, that we have, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, that we have to the fact, that we have to the future and in fact of the future, the fact, that we have to the future, and in fact, and in fact, that we have been able to the future, the future, and in fact, the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32023	Thank you very much. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge also, finally, Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32024	My colleagues and fellow MPs. We are in a crucial global and historical situation, and what happened with the crown crisis has potentiated some changes that have been going intensively but still at a slower pace than we are witnessing today. I am, in the interest of professors and the basic fear that has appeared to us professors and what they were talking to each other about at the moment of this crisis, where they insisted that we move on to some digital platforms and begin to teach on them, whether we will be necessary in the future at all. At some point, if we let our knowledge and our lectures be recorded and they're some sort of one-hour, two-hour material, what do we do? What's going to happen to us, is it necessary at all, is this the way to reducing ourselves or getting rid of us completely? In what way do we protect our rights and what is this teaching material, should we take care of it or will such a thing happen under certain legal proposals? None of us have thought about it so far, but given what we've been dealing with now, we're going to have to take these problems more seriously to protect our, in this case, copyright. Of course, in the hope that such a thing is only temporary and that we will return to this lively sequel again, but as it currently goes, in some recent future, not necessarily tomorrow, and to repair the epidemiological situation, more and more and the teaching will be virtual, and teachers are what we talked about too little when we talked about copyright. The second question, the question of employment, and the question of who the work is, which was created within a particular working relationship, is a very important issue for all the non-permanent creative professions, journalists in the first place, and in this sense, more needs to think about how to go hand in hand to those who are forced to change jobs and who depend on this portrait that they only have and which they can later dispose of. I am afraid, in conclusion, that I will point out that we are at all a question of what law enforcement is and what I welcome, and that is to face the challenges of digitisation, to somehow even unite, to try to be as united as the EU on this market, against the rest of the world, and in this digital world at some wider level, to any number of publishers, any different companies that protect copyright, we are fighting against these giants that are currently so widespread that they are in possession and that they can blackmail us, that this issue will not be solved by such laws. That he won't be able to get rid of it before we even scratch what's key, and that's what those platforms are. Which is Facebook, which is Twitter, which is Google, which is all these platforms that publish and reproduce that content without providing adequate compensation. I'll remind you that in a moment of rapid development of the Internet, they've had a great deal going on without knowing what power they're going to have in the future, so we've had Communications Decency Act, Art. 230 which gave these services very important privileges, I am currently talking about Facebook and what is called social networks, but also to the media, not to be treated as publishers, which is why they are not legally responsible for the content that users place through their services. They only commit to remove what is punishable at federal level and to have immunity from legal responsibility for moving the content they consider to be, mainly, disturbing, poor, etc., as long as they act in good faith. It is then a particular problem because it is very stretching and it deals with artificial intelligence or even even sometimes biased activists. Therefore, in different ways these platforms are excluded from legal responsibility. How, then, given the specificity of their legal status, they make them respect and respect copyright without pre-determining their functioning once and for all. After various censorships or what some have interpreted as censorship, which have recently emerged, and as regards issues of social media publication, many countries have raised the question of whether we should regulate their action. Until that question is resolved, and even the answer to it, whether we should leave them to the free market, whether they need countries to intervene in them, I'm afraid this whole copyright story on social networks and any digital platforms is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32025	It is now Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn to speak finally in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. The intruder doesn't understand. Not today Croatian, yesterday was Italian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32026	... Italian today is Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear vice president of HS, the respected minister with the co-worker. Andrej Plenkovic is the legitimate president of the government of the Republic of Croatia because he won so many votes in the elections that he managed to create the government with his colleagues from the SDSS and some smaller parties. Right? And that government is a product of the will of the citizens, and I don't like it and I feel bad about it, but that's how it is, the electoral law is unfair, but it's unfair, but it is. But today we have something that Croatian citizens cannot influence, the choice of Andrej Plenkovic can, despite the poor Election Law, tomorrow when they go to the elections and let them vote for the sovereigns and we will get an alternative, but I don't like that we can't influence, for example. on an extremely powerful tool that controls public opinion today, which is social networks, but we don't control it at all. Some normal states have introduced these restrictions and control because watch out, we still choose democratic society and politics, but we have given a mandate to someone on Facebook, on Twitter in TicTok in Reddit on YouTube to do whatever they want to us in our space. That's one problem. Another problem that is not directly related to this, this bill is that they do it for free or June, and they draw billions and billions of kunas annually from Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses and nothing to anyone. And then when the first one from this pay phone a year ago, I say that I need to make a digital tax, and then some try to make fun of me and say Zekanovic wants to tax the Internet, not like the Internet to be available, but all those who make money on the Internet and get money out of Croatia to reroute that money, for example. to demographic measures to make more small Croats and Croats. And now, what I'm connecting with this, that's what I was talking about this morning at the beginning of the debate, here I was talking about first and last, it has to be my last, so... Except for home, I agree with my colleague, Dark, I'm there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what is crucial here to emphasize, we have given a mandate, we have allowed some mega companies that we do not know who is managing them, how it manages, what it does to place any content and that have absolutely no legal responsibility to legal regulation and in our country of Croatia, absolutely nothing. I'm going to warn you here about an event recently, and that's for example. that the former, today former president of the United States is probably the most powerful state of the world, blocked on one of the most important social networks, for example. on Twitter. So we're talking about copyright, and we haven't regulated those platforms, the digital platforms where we place those contents. I think we're going to be on a limb here, let's first regulate the relationship between these service providers and our country of Croatia, and then we'll be able to talk about this, otherwise this is a rotten grandmother flax because these companies can really do anything with any authorial work and they don't respond to anyone in Croatia. Let's solve this problem first, and then we can go one step further. So, I've said this several times, and I'm going to brag that I was talking first, and I'm sure that this is going to talk about more and more colleagues, and I've heard here a colleague before me say something about it, and we need to put this in the public eye because this is going to be a very big problem for us in the foreseeable future, as well as a problem, not just in control, and now maybe somebody's going to take me the wrong way again, but here I'm going to be the one to take the first step, as well as the problem of artificial intelligence, so artificial intelligence is very useful and it's supposed to be investing here, but for example. Some normal states like America or China have even introduced ministries dealing with the threat of artificial intelligence. So let's also talk about it in both HS and some ministries, and on this point some conclusions, these are problems that normal countries, developed, advanced dealings with. But here's what it's like in Croatia, so we fucked up Catholics always push some of the most advanced topics. Mostly I think I've been clear enough a little more sovereignty and a little less freedom for those who use Croatian space and are not from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32027	At the end of the day, the Minister of Culture, Nina Ossuary Koržinek will give her conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you to all MPs and MPs. As I have repeatedly taken my word during today's debate, I would no longer comment on anything but thank you from this place for all your comments and all the suggestions we will consider until the second reading. The debate was very useful to us. The debate was certainly followed by representatives of all associations representing those whose copyright and related rights are being protected and I think they too can be satisfied because, regardless of some consensus and disagreement, today's debate has shown that there is a high awareness of the need to protect copyright and related rights, the need to find a balance between different rightholders where there is a general view that it has not been reached so far. I think it is very important that a lot of MPs talked about the issues of accessibility on the one hand, so that the preservation of rights and copyrights and related ones, but on the other, always finding a balance that all these contents, especially those that are important to the public, are available, better promotion and protection of national cultural and creative industries compared to global platforms. We will take the time it takes to find a consensus on some more of these outstanding issues, in principle the deadline for adoption, to comply with the directive is June this year, so there is plenty of time to consider your comments, but also the comments of those associations that have shown their dissatisfaction or ambition to sort things out differently. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32029	Thank you. You stay, you have replicas, you have the Minister's replicas, the first replica is requested by Mrs. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32030	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I don't know if you mentioned it, but it's important to say that copyright doesn't last forever, so it lasts 70 years. from the day of death or for users of this 50g. means the rights of the performer since the last edition. So, and it's something that's very important that it's regulated in view of everything that's in possession, for example. on HRT, so it is also important to regulate all these materials and all these copyrights and how to regulate them and how to implement them, so all performers, all users and these copyright holders who have the right to claim then certain means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32031	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32032	That's not what we talked about today. You are right, especially because in that part, the duration of the law did not bring some newspapers, and that part was, in fact, fully governed by international conventions or European directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32033	He's got another replica, Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32034	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, here today were the words about the authorial work that was created in the work relationship, but I would commend and mention something that no one really mentioned, and that is the question, at last, that regulates the question of the author's part of the students. Therefore, according to this proposal, it is clearly prescribed that copyright rights on copyright works created by students in any study belong to their authors without restrictions, as well as the obligations of higher schools to lay down rules on the handling of the copyright parts of students. It is also prescribed, therefore, that prior to the conclusion of the Study Treaty students be familiar with the conditions of the higher school and agree to it which will surely facilitate this dilemma which I think has existed all this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32035	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32036	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for bringing this up. In addition to the need for this right to be regulated, I think it is a good message about the importance of copyright protection, so it is necessary to respect copyright from the first moment when the conditions are obtained that an authorial work is considered an authorial part. So, I'm glad you brought it up and I think it's one of the steps of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32037	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32038	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor. So I'm sure today's debate was constructive. The debate wasn't the point of roaring fire, yeah, but it was in the sense that let's do something to make it better. You said in your final presentation that you would once again, that you had until June, so there is time to do, that you would sit down with the associations and try to solve it. If you had to sort of evaluate what, which would be the hardest thing to do in this law, because you have some things that will be simpler, easier, and everything else, but there are some things you know when you have an opposing 3-4 group, there's no magic wand that now, you would have it and there would be a bill already, what would you judge that would be the hardest thing to solve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32039	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32040	Well, as we have so far, we will make every effort we can to moderate the debate between the different stakeholders and try to reach their agreement. When different stakeholders achieve some minimum consent then it is much easier to write the norm because here we regulate private legal relations, so the legislator must be very careful in the case of copyright and related rights not to go too far in imposing a solution because in fact this entire branch of law relys on mutual relations. However, we must set those principles which, which will ensure that justice and good balance. I think it's clear from the debate that we are left with certain issues related to phonographs and phonogram producers and certain issues within the film industry that really still need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32041	And at the end of the day, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32042	Dear Minister, at the end of the debate, I would say that the copyrights of the people who create, mainly in the new time through social networks, are used by their rights, and I have set you an example of where a particular composer author can be performed, e.g. I listed one of our colleagues' songs and she was now seen in too many, in my opinion the best performance, in my opinion it was the best performance and I mentioned the Battle of Chavoglava, how to solve it on social networks to make the authors make their compensation, and it's obviously very difficult and complicated. Do you have any indication of the suggestion that and what on social networks is being transmitted by the authors to exercise the right to their compensation, even if it was me singing it, that it was showing on social networks or one of our colleagues as I mentioned this one of the best performances of the Chavoglav War, which is a lot and seen by our fellow parliamentary representative? I, the author, did nothing at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32043	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32044	Mr. Representative, this law has created an adequate framework for both authors and performers, so I assume that both the author and contractors in which you refer will find a way to provide themselves with a fair compensation under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32045	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the latest draft law in today's debate, that's: - Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 62; The Proposer shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 62. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As you have seen from the title, it is about first reading and concerns the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to such reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Information, Information and Media and Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? She's with us. Nina Ossuary Koržinek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, as I pointed out earlier today, I think it is a happy circumstance that after the Law on Copyright and Related Rights we also open a debate on the proposal of the Law on Electronic Media, since one and the other text is in line with those needs that bring digital age, new forms of distribution and production of content that greatly alter the basic postulates of the work of the media industry. This law regulates the performance of radio and television activities, the publication of electronic publications, and the protection of pluralism and diversity of media, and the composition and part-round of the regulatory body of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency. Although it is certainly known to all the MPs and MPs who have read the text, I would, however, at the introduction, given certain interpretations in the public, stress that this law does not regulate social networks. So social networks are not defined as media and are not subject to regulation under this law. The law that was now in force in 2009 during the negotiations on Croatia's EU accession, and although it had no change, has not changed much since 2009. This proposal, which is in the first place today, is in line with the Audio-visual Media Services Directive, and I would like to say, we had the ambition of this law in the past term and earlier, however, negotiations on this directive have lasted longer than we expected, so that the public debate was actually carried out last year in the early spring, and for known reasons, the law is only now addressed to HS. The basic objectives of the directive were to pass certain audio-visual rules on video-sharing platforms, as well as on audio-visual content shared on certain social media services, introduce flexibility to the limits applicable to television, strengthen the promotion of European content and, of course, further to the measures that enable them to, in particular, protect children, combat hate speech more effectively and strengthen the independence of national regulatory authorities. So if we compare that framework with which we were harmonising in 2009 and the one that we are harmonising with today, what needs to be pointed out is that we had very precisely defined classical media services, so classic linear media services, especially radio and television, but actually very little regulated non-linear services, which have evolved in the meantime and which are actually one very large number today. I will try to sum up some, 20 most important points or areas that change in this law in relation to the current text, along with, of course, upgrading definitions, special emphasis in this law, is placed on persons with disabilities and a gradual increase in the availability of all services to persons with disabilities and is placed on the media, placing electronic media the duty to develop action plans in order to improve that availability. So I forgot to mention only the introductory wording, so part of these points that I will highlight comes from the Directive, and one part concerns the improvement of our legislative framework where we are completely autonomous to edit this area in the area where we have seen that certain changes or improvements are needed. One such provision therefore refers to greater transparency in the publication of data relating to the publication of the ownership structure, so it is now an obligation to be published on the websites, as well as to the publication of data on financing and delivery to the Agency for Electric Media, the extract from the Register of Real Owners. It also extends to electronic publications 15% of the annual amount intended to be promoted or advertised by the state administration body, before being only radio and television publishers, so that we allow the publishers of electronic publications to participate in one part of these revenues. The commitment is being introduced and we find this very important, that funds for the financing of electronic media at local level must be implemented with publicly published criteria and through public calls. The change in the way in which the programming base will be calculated to facilitate the adaptation of linear media services during the duration of the concession to the real needs of their adjustment to the market is coordinated the share of the total weekly programme which must be dedicated to reporting news and information with the area in accordance with the size of the concession area. It was seen that there were certain illogicalities. On the trail of previous discussions on the protection and preservation of Croatian cultural and creative industries in this law, we raise the quota for Croatian music to radio publishers from 20% to 25%, and commercial television must invest in domestic independent production for the first time in the new law. However, given this crisis in which we have found ourselves, this provision will take effect with a delay of two years and then we will only take a small step forward in the hope that this procedure will increase over time. As for this quota from 20% to 25% for Croatian music, I must point out that the largest number of Croatian radio publishers already significantly exceed that quota. As for the issues of distortion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, the share of all programmes of a particular media service provider under this law will not be allowed to exceed 45% of the share in the ratings, and if they cross that 45% will not be able to further acquire new shares in other media service providers nor will they be able to obtain a new concession. Namely, we had these concentration issues exclusively related to linear meanings on radiotelevision or press and the need to actually appear in relation to monitoring the concentration of the whole presence in the market. That principle that we introduced by the 2009 law, which is what the principles of co-regulation and self-regulation retain with the ambition of further strengthening, because our government thinks that it is always much better when the media enters self-regulatory and co-regulatory regimes, and that regulation itself or some other legal medicines are something that should be avoided whenever possible. The law introduces an obligation to promote media literacy, introduces audiovisual media service providers on demand to ensure 30% of the share of European works in their catalogues. Audiovisual media service providers at the request that do not have a legal establishment in Croatia, and target Croatia will be obliged to pay according to the Audiovisual Law financial contribution to the production of European works. It is also better to define the definition of an independent producer that has created the definition so far created certain implementation problems. We can also say that something more liberal is being set up towards the possibility of extending the concession. In the case of those publishers who did not have a warning or who were not temporarily deprived of the concession and who have adopted the media statute in the event of no other interested parties. In other words, they will be allowed to continue with the concession to extend it without going through a re-complex procedure only by notifying the interest. The time limit of the concession is also extended from 10 to a maximum of 20 years, which we believe will also enable publishers who very often have to invest significant funds in both equipment and other resources, production resources to deal with this business with greater legal certainty. As for the questions about the programming base, there has been some harmonisation in the first order related to the observed illogicalities of the current law, and the seasonality of its own production, so winter-summer, has been reduced, some percentages are seen for longer periods of time. It should also be mentioned that this has been quite a public matter already, the issue of infringements. The number has not increased compared to the current law, however, because of the different nomotechnical organisation of the law, it may have seemed to some law readers that there are many more. As regards the areas of video on demand, 30% of European content is introduced in all catalogues, a commitment is introduced to those who have legal origin outside the Republic of Croatia, and certain adjustments are introduced in relation to the percentage of the news as I have said depending on the area of coverage. The law lays down some improvements in that part of the functioning of the Electronic Media Council or the Electronic Media Agency where the observations have been made. In public, especially before today's debate, and at the end of this introduction, I would like to mention this in particular, the particularly potent question of art. 93. and the provisions relating therefore to the liability of commentaries under articles in electronic publications or what is referred to in the law as ‘the content generated by users’. In this regard, questions were raised as to whether this law introduced censorship, including in this context the alleged dragon penalties for publishers. I think it'll be useful for this discussion of ours to remind myself that the publishers have actually been responsible for the whole of their content so far, it's just being further underlined here. There are several reasons why, first of all, it is equal to the situation for both radio and television, so they are responsible for all the content, and also for their voice contact shows if anyone reports they respond and are obliged to react if someone violates the law. What you put an emphasis on in art. 93 is a serious violation of the Penal Code, so when we talk about, when we talk about hate crime, inciting hate, sharing child pornography, or dispensing content that is harmful to minors, we are talking about very serious criminal acts. I don't think that, that the thesis that has started to be transmitted in public around censorship really stands and there was no intention of any censorship here is just about the responsibility for the content that is on the electronic publication because we need to be aware that this, generation of this content, does not allow for no reason, so the publishers allow the generation of this content to be made possible because it increases the reach, the clickability, and then it increases the value of that advertising space, so the publishers are monetized and originally written text, but everything that is under that text and in that sense is our opinion, and it was in some way and derived within the working group that this area should be regulated. Before the debate, we are about to have a debate at EU level on a new extension service excerpt, so a digital service act where this issue will be very high on the agenda and a further debate is expected and a common solution is found. What I want to point out at the end of this opening part is that the entire area of cultural and creative industries is significantly affected by the crisis, so is the situation in the media that depend to the greatest extent on the means they collect from advertisers in times of crisis, the economic crisis, of course, that companies are the first to save on advertising. We are a small market, independent media are immensely important to our democracy and we hope that through the planned recovery and resilience programme we will also provide certain mechanisms that will help our media go through this crisis. A special emphasis will be placed on financing media literacy, so media literacy programs, because it is actually one topic that unites many of the dilemmas that we have already discussed today, and we will probably also talk during this afternoon. So, I believe that with this improved new law, we will create a more quality framework for the work of Croatian media and allow publishers, as well as journalists, and then, of course, their audience to further develop sustainable professional and quality electronic media in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32049	We have several replicas, please welcome the distinguished representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32050	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I request a 15-minute break in order to further consult on the extremely problematic aspects of this law which I have personally warned on the Committee of Resorts, and I see that everything else is unchanged. It is about things that are intruding, which violate the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which affect the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech, freedom of expression of opinion, freedom of religion, also which are contrary to the UN General Declaration of Human Rights and, in addition, certain articles such as art. 51st, they threaten the freedom of business and the free market. It's a very serious matter, it's one thing, so long as I say bricks wrapped in the whole of the Law on Electronic Media, and I think we need to discuss these things. We have heard here a kind of Orwell's new speech, we have heard that EU directives that would be good to hear more talk about suppressing hate speech. What is hate speech, where it is mentioned and defined in our legislation, who is an arbitrationist to determine what is hate speech, and what is not hate speech, and whether it is the task of the state and the legislator to care for hate and love, or is our job something else, and will the Ministry of Culture have to be renamed to the Ministry of Culture and Love literally in Orwell's sense? That someone at the moment of the fall of the Berlin Wall, the fall and finally the other totalitarianism on Europe's soil told us that we would be in 2021. Listen to these syntagms being imposed, which are as if prescribed from Orwell in 1984, a man would not believe. These are very serious and difficult things and requires at least those 15 minutes for further consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32051	Okay. Any other requests for a break? If he's not here, then I declare a break until 5:25. MEETING AT 17:17 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 5:25 A.M.]] We've got a few replicas now. I'm asking the Minister to come. The first is the replica of the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32053	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honors Minister. I believe that this bill has a number of shortcomings, however, I will do so more on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club. However, we have a specific question here for you. Did you not personally violate this bill or the existing law, namely Art. The 28th current law still in force, i.e. Art. 33. which reads ‘State bodies and their representatives and trade unions and different stakeholders shall not affect the broadcaster and/or the radio as regards the creation of an audiovisual or radio programme’. Namely, March 17, 2020. in close proximity to the initiative of Andrej Plenkovic at the secret meeting you attended and you were the editors-in-chief of the media houses of Croatia where you asked them to report on the pandemic's crown, is that not an obvious violation of this article of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32054	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32055	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I've never broken any laws, especially this law. Your interpretations and nature and the subject of that meeting are completely false about this we have published a statement. No one was absolutely certain in Croatia in democratic Croatia that they would report. Media freedom and media independence is one of the fundamental principles on which our democracy is built and we certainly would never violate those principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32057	The Honorable Vice President of HS. We are looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns to further consult on the draft of this law. I cannot agree here with you ministers that you have not tried to impose and edit the editorial policy of Croatian media. In fact, just now, Prime Minister Plenkovic, at a meeting of the government on December 23rd, openly pointing his finger to all the media, said that vaccination should be reported. Isn't that another exact example of breaking the article of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32058	Okay, since we've had a break now, then I suggest we move on. We heard your reasons. The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32059	Your Honors Minister. You have succeeded in making a proposal that is at the same time harmful to the media by ignoring their problems and by allowing lawsuits with dragon sentences and the right to freedom of speech, which is a kind of success, while in no way solving the problem of hate speech in public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32060	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32061	Honorable MPs. I was just about to say it, and I'm going to say it again today as many times as it takes, no dragon punishments are being imposed. Compare this law with the 2009 and 2003 laws, all the amounts of all penalties are exactly the same and nothing has changed. Secondly, we haven't spoken anywhere and I never use this law of hate speech. The term hate speech is one colloquial term that is not defined by any law, if you refer to an article. 93. then these are very precise acts which are otherwise covered by the Penal Code, which refers to the content that encourages acts of terrorism, crimes related to child pornography, crimes related to racism and xenophobia all defined by the Penal Code, and not this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32062	Next replica, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32063	As for the increase in the number of penalties, it is the fact that there were 34 in the past law, and now 104 points to be prosecuted. Yes, you're going to say that it's because of a different way of formulating, but I'm not finding it, maybe I haven't carefully looked at some of the provisions as vague as the impact on the moral development of minors who are now being punished, and in law they haven't been punished. What I'm going to ask you is, which means in art. 14 to condemn the ideas of nationalist totalitarian regimes, does this mean that those Nazi totalitarian regimes are passing through? The second I'm going to ask you about the terms you've transposed into this law, and they've been to the previous ones that are complete nebulises. Explain to me what the behavior that greatly damages the protection of the environment is unlike what damages the environment, which is moral damage to minors, which is immoral, and what is particularly immoral content? Explain to me the difference between these terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32064	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32065	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. The differences in the current law have been sanctioned by 108, and now 105 violations. I believe that all the advice of legal professionals is available which can point out why the number of indentations is now higher because of the nomotechnic calling, but it is the exact same number, i.e. for three indents, are less referred to in the infringements. Art. 14. the text of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination has been fully transposed, and these terms that you speak are therefore very harmful or harmful, are found in the directive directly transposed from the Directive and, as you know for sure, you are parliamentary representatives here have already been transposed by a number of directives. One part of the directive is transposed directly, so it has been introduced into this text of the law and has not changed in relation to the 2009 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32066	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32067	Thank you. Your Honors Minister. When looking at documents from public consultations, it can be seen in several places that HND, NUD, other professional associations and individuals are asked to define a media strategy before this Law on Electronic Media and in its new Media Act, because it would in fact get the right state of things on the stage itself, or somehow all the more expensive adjustments would be made to the time and space in which we live and act because this is how it all turns out that it is simply adapted and extorted with the eu directive, and some additional things related to the media itself have not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32068	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32069	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. The adoption of the National Development Strategy will create the conditions for the adoption of a culture and media development strategy as indicated in the document, I have spoken of it many times. As far as the Media Act is concerned, it is foreseen for the fourth quarter, knowing that this law has not changed for almost 20 years, we invited some key stakeholders to the previous consultations by written means until early March to deliver their proposals in which direction to amend the law because there are very different opinions and from experts. One who thinks it should be minimally completed and that it is a good foundation and others who think that significant changes are necessary. And as for harmonisation with the directive, unfortunately because of the situation with covid, we missed a deadline like most other Member States, the deadline was September 2020, but we believe that we will make up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32070	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 46th law introduces greater protection of cultural identity through an increase in the quota of Croatian music and Croatian audiovisual works which I certainly welcome, I think it is a significant step and is also in art. 71. is defined as being driven by state money from the fund, so it is stated that the content that historically and crediblely depicts the Homeland War is excellent, raising public awareness of the ability and contribution of people with disabilities, promoting quality programmes for children and young people, so these are all the contents that should certainly be welcomed. However, there are also some ambiguities and terms that are interpreted in different ways and are related to gender ideology, which certainly does not represent the value of the Croatian people, so I would argue that through art. 71., but also through some other articles shed light on this and introduce a term to promote equality between women and men, which is also a constitutional category in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32072	Thank you, Madam Representative. Indeed, in agreement with representatives of key stakeholders, the percentages of quotas for the different contents of Croatian cultural and creative industries have been raised, and I think that is good and should be encouraged. As for the fund, the fund has shown over the past 15 years its role primarily in helping local and regional media that would be very difficult given the small markets in which they operate to survive that there is no fund. The categories in the fund have changed, in this proposal that now goes we haven't changed categories, it wasn't even presented in the public debate, but of course that's why we're here in the first reading to listen to all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32073	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32074	In response to Agent Selak Raspoudić's question, you said correctly that you were in trouble article 14. copy-paste what was in the 2009 law was in the article. In 64, including the one where it says "no incentive is forbidden and it is suitable to promote the spread of hatred or discrimination on the basis of" and now goes "the idea of fascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian regimes". I know political literature about fascist, Nazi and communist totalitarianism. Is it the tipballer you made in 2009, so now you've passed it on again, which means you're not reading what you're bringing, or you're amnesting for some reason Nazism, so Nazism is okay, and you're branding nationalism, which is a very fluid notion of healthy patriotism can be to chauvinism. So I repeat the idea of fascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian regimes, is it tipfeller? If you admit it, then you don't read what you're carrying, and if it's not a tipfeller, why amnesty, and say communism, fascism, and nationalism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32075	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32076	Thank you, Mr. Representative. As I said this definition was transposed from the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, so it is not written for this law, and of course we will listen to all the proposals and consider all the proposals, please do not impute any totalitarian regime, and especially the Nazi who has produced so many crimes has amnesty. It really isn't, it wouldn't have been intentional.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32077	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32078	Insulting MPs on 238. Insulting MPs. I'm under the impression that I'm in a way relativizing, and I've noticed that there's no conviction or sanctioning Nazism. Obviously it's a tipfeler, you confessed. This tipefeller was probably in the 2008 Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, so in the 2009 Media Act, so you passed it on today, so you mechanically copyy pasta, you don't even read what you're saying in front of HS because otherwise you wouldn't bring out a typeefeller where it turns out to be an amnesty of Nazism. So I'm offended by this kind of imputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32079	Okay, so it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, you have a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32080	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, the Internet is certainly today the largest platform on which free speech is granted for people around the world. And every time we come into some thin line that in any way, that freedom of speech, freedom of expression, in a certain way, or abolishs or regulates, of course, that all radars are real to us, those radars that function, and we wonder what it can turn into because it's never good when you go too hard, it always turns into something else. We've had this in history case really that we've seen that it's just not going in the right direction. And other countries have a problem with what we're talking about and have several ways or several modes. Is it, then, that it was possible to even see the way they are under certain articles is always anonymous to those who spread hate speech, to turn it into something else after all? Maybe it would be a model to help us. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32081	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32082	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. So, there are a lot of models, and I've been talking about it and my colleagues before this debate, so there are media that completely disables commenting, there are media that have a certain deadline in which some article can comment, there are media that insist, regardless of whether you are visiblely anonymous, that, in order to gain the right to comment, you have to register somewhere with your real identity and thus transfer responsibility to those who spread and share such content. There is no intention of sanctioning the media but rather the opposite of sending a message that it is necessary for such serious crimes to choose the most appropriate way to share them that threatens the wider community in such a way as it is now tolerated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32083	The next replica is Reverend Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32084	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you said in your opening speech that the responsibility of the editor has been prescribed before, and that it is only further underlined now, so I ask you, excuse me, colleagues can thank you a little bit, so I'm asking you now is it since if it has been regulated before is it necessary to underline it again or is it really about that, that an attempt to pressure in terms of self-censorship is being made? Secondly, given that we are paying HRT billion kuna annually, I am interested in why imposing regulation on radio stations and televisions in terms of the amount of our own production, the duration of certain content and the like when obviously HRT has enough resources and meets that part towards citizens, why not leave it to the market and that viewers and listeners have the content they are looking for, rather than the one that is prescribed to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32085	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32086	As far as this first part of the question is concerned, as I have said so far, the law has more precisely defined linear electronic media, and much less non-linear, which includes electronic publications, but it includes all services on request. Since the preceding article accurately defined these same infringements for different platforms that transfer content on request in exactly the same way, which is prescribed by the Directive, it shall apply in the same way to the same logic and to electronic publications. As far as HRT relations and commercial publishers are concerned, we always balance between what is tangible to commercial publishers. The public obligations of HRT are incomparable and should be so in all areas of education, culture, etc., but commercial publishers also play a public role.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32087	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32088	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, reading the Law on Electronic Media, the legislator shows a clear intention to protect Croatian authors, Croatian works and Croatian independent producers with the aim of promoting Croatian cultural works to improve the audiovisual industry in terms of preserving jobs and creating new jobs. Please tell me how audiovisual services that do not have a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia behave in the production of content in Croatian? We know that their obligation would be to produce 5% of products in Croatian, do they do so and what is it they intend to do for those who do not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32089	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32090	Your Honor, I thank you for this comment. So, as I said in the introduction, this law applies to regulation and, in accordance with the provisions of the directive, to certain areas or activities that have not been regulated so far. This is the case with different forms of cross-border broadcasting and especially with respect to different platforms on demand, so regardless of their business teaching. If they address audiences in one speaking area or are mostly addressed, or have a majority workforce in that area, they fall under the jurisdiction of that country's regulator. This will now be the case in Croatia, and then logically the question has been raised that they also distribute as other publishers who operate in the territory. They have concessions here and pay all their dues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32091	Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32092	Dear Minister, we have here in art. 39. that the authorities of the state administration and public institutions established by the Republic of Croatia owe 15% of the total funds intended for promotion, to spend on local or regional radio stations or television. However, they are also obliged to submit a report, but we have the knowledge that all state administration bodies are not doing so or not to spend that part of the funds, and why not spend it? Because punishments are intended for non-compliance with all provisions other than this provision, which brings us to the conclusion that there is something discriminatory. I want to know what you think about it, and will you do something to change it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32093	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32094	Thank you, Mr. Representative. This is a very affirmative provision that goes according to, it aims not to place all the advertising funds on the national media, with national concessions, but to direct one part to the local. Since we've been making that provision, there's always been a debate, especially with associations... It is necessary to prescribe some criminal liability for this, given that it is public authorities, some thinking whether it is going with re-appeals, warnings, which is why this reporting obligation was introduced by March 31st, after which those who do not respect it can be sanctioned, however, the data show that the largest number of those provisions are actually respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32095	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32096	Thank you. Dear Minister, in Art. 16 is very far-reaching, in my opinion, excessively prescribed how the media should work, how it happens and must show, that facts, events, etc. must be correctly pictured. and a series of criteria are listed which the media must meet. On the other hand, these same criteria are not respected in public procurement for the award of public funds for programmes and media projects, so, just as your ministry has concluded a contract and awarded 1.3 million kunas to the Association by recognition and authority that have a portal I recognise.hr from Slavonski Brod that is known for disinformation, fake news and actually recognized in some parts, some articles as a portal that spreads hatred to certain groups So I'm asking you to tell us if this contract is broken in the meantime when you found out what kind of media it is? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32097	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32098	Well, as far as art is concerned. 16, he was transferred the same way he was and I think it is good to remind himself of certain fundamental principles, they come from the Media Act, and in a small number of articles repeated or slightly different formulated in the Law on Electronic Media. As regards the competition for the European Solidarity Fund, given that you are experienced in applying to EU funds, you know very well how projects are evaluated, you know who PT1, PT2 is and how these procedures are conducted, and then you also know very well that the Ministry of Culture is not the one who decides how to allocate the funds, but whether the projects have been looked at and whether those who have reported the projects have met all the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32099	The next replica, the esteemed representative...... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Dear Representative Katarina Peovic, the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32100	Here's the minister, I'd like to know if you really consider unions to be stakeholders? Namely, that's what you called them in art. In 33rd and practically criminalized a union struggle by warning that unions should be prevented from affecting publishers. Otherwise, we put aside the yellow unions, mostly unions deal in the fight for workers and public goods, labour struggle, which means it should be the interest of this law. At the same time, this law shows the real stakeholders that influenced his writing, so the Pluralism Facility opens up commercial and profitable media, reducing the obligation to publish local news from local television stations to only 4-5 or 7%, allowing publishers to completely change the software base just 2.g. After receiving the concession, this domestic, domestic production obligation remained completely undefined, which means that publishers can calculate programmes that are fully implemented outside Croatia in a foreign language, what international television houses do. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32101	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32102	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. So, Art. 33rd said state bodies and their representatives, as well as trade unions and different stakeholders. I think this is to be very logically analyzed, so we don't have time for that in one minute. By your interpretation, I suppose the state bodies would then be stakeholders, not at all, it is quite clear what is meant in this article. It is that simply for their own interests, such advocates, and in particular national authorities and their representatives, must not affect the broadcasters or the radio about the creation of an audiovisual or radio programme. Regarding this other topic, as I said, we had one imbalance where linear electronic services, so television and radio were very standardized unlike those on demand and which attract more and more audiences and which have no obligations and this law actually in agreement with all stakeholders asked for balance, I think a good balance has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32103	The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32104	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the existing 2009 Electronic Media Act has precisely defined classical media services and we know that since 2009 the law has not changed significantly. However, we also know this and it is clear that technologies have changed significantly in the meantime, but also that electronic content is accessible to users. Art. The 93rd proposed legislative proposal refers to the responsibility of the publisher for the content generated by the users or the responsibility of the user’s commentaries to say so, and I ask you once again to explain the purpose and purpose of this article. The way I read it, it's not about limiting freedom of speech, it's not about any censorship, it's about suppressing hate speech and the responsibility of publishers for generated content that contains hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32105	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32106	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. As I was saying at the outset, I reject any insinuation that any person in democratic Croatia would have thought of introducing censorship or restricting anyone's freedom of speech in 2021. However, we know that the freedom of one, the freedom of an individual, ceases where it begins to endanger others. In cases of serious violations of criminal offences prescribed by the Criminal Code, therefore we are talking about child pornography, calling for racism, xenophobia, acts of terrorism, there must be a responsibility. If someone wants to share such content, they can be in a democratic state, and for that, they must bear the same responsibility as if they had come to shout such messages in front of HS. There's no difference between public square space and the digital world, and I think it's through all the debates we've heard most of them yet for these solutions we have the support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32107	The next replica is the distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor, and Mrs. Secretary. She's a co-worker. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 15 and 16 that are actually connected are prescribed criteria to meet audiovisual and radio programmes, as well as the content of electronic publications. That prescribed provision also had an infringing provision with it. However, for some reason, and it seems to me that because of the media inscriptions, you've deleted that violation provision, which is the intention of this law, I'm sure it's the publication of accurate information, in what way will you actually, in fact, in which way will those who break that rule bear some consequences if there has to be some punishment for something you've done in the past of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32109	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32110	A public debate serves to see when you make mistakes. We have indeed come into a situation that did not exist in the previous law in this new way of calling a misdemeanor. The 15th and the 16th appear to be criminal punishments. When we warned about it, we immediately deleted it because of this article. The 15th and 16th should be read as principles, not as something that would be sanctioned. At the outset, I said this law insists on the principles of co-regulation and self-regulation. For free media, independent media in plural and democratic society is always better when such issues are treated within self-regulatory bodies, co-regulation, means honor councils, journalistic society, electronic media councils in that part of which or other self-regulatory acts, not through some infringement provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32111	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32112	Dear Minister, here you all are being attacked, I must say that this is the law in the first reading, firstly, and secondly, I must say that the law in the debate has received a series of commendations. First of all, due to greater transparency on the publication of media service providers' data related to the publication of ownership structure on websites. But what bothers me is that there is no indication anywhere when local self-government can be the owner of the media, under which conditions, which opens up a range of opportunities for political influence on the media due to financing, co-financing and other influences. According to the current legislation, to see who has obligations and obligations to the media in the bar, we need to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government, which defines the obligation of local self-government to the media, but also does not say anywhere under which conditions it can be owned. That's what all the EU countries have solved, it's done by Serbia, so I'm asking when we're going to solve it, are we going to settle it in this law or some other law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32113	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32114	Thank you, Mr. Representative. First of all, I don't feel like I'm being attacked by something very strongly, we have a very good debate today, first of all about the Copyright Act, and then of this law, I'm really paying attention to everything and praise, and sometimes here are some small attacks. We in this law, in this proposal, have adopted a proposal for a more transparent publication of ownership structures. We believe that it is very important the same as we have prescribed the obligation to report to the media, not all publishers with this were happy about the financing elections. We believe that this will be important for our citizens to see, who owns it, who funds it and we have prescribed a commitment that for local media, public tenders must be called for to finance local media, not as certain units of local self-government are funding them directly. I think it's going to be a big step, I don't know how we can limit who can own the media or not, but let's leave it to the discussion until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32115	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32116	Dear Minister, several mentions of birthrights in this law. I would like to know when this term is introduced into the Croatian legal system and where you have the right and the idea that this term is being introduced and perhaps here to begin by explaining to the Croats and Croats what it is, that we know, what we must not do tomorrow or what will be sanctioned under the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32117	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32118	Thank you. Mr. Representative, and sometimes what you say to Croats and Croats is easier to explain than in other places. As soon as that question was asked on the board, I must admit I was amazed at where that subject came from. So these are the provisions from the first to the last exactly as they were written in 2009 and until a few weeks ago when that topic rose on the board, I never really heard anyone notice that there would be something problematic in this law, and everything is in line with the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination. However, here we are in the first reading to hear all the comments and all the arguments that became problematic in 2021 when it was never a problem so far, but I firmly refuse your insinuation that anyone here deals with gender mythology, this law deals with electronic media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32119	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32120	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, of course Article 238, so the First Minister did not answer me nicely and clearly, and what that means is a birth identity, is she perhaps not aware and she does not want to say. If the law is the same as it was before, why are we even making a new bill? So, and some things that are bad might have gone wrong. I warn you and ask you again. Dear Minister, why is this bill introducing a new term or, therefore, why is it being introduced and what does that mean, which means birth identity? Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32121	So this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning. Here's Agent Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32122	Minister, freedom, freedom of speech is the basis of democracy. I know personally I could talk about the problems that have been found in the media, but the fact that by imposing punishment, the sanctions for commenting to the media is a blow to freedom, freedom of journalism. How do you think he'll be free, so who's going to judge what's an insult, which is not and in what way? Do you want to set some criteria or how? I can only say, here in Split-Dalmatia County is given money to doctors, their school directors to establish their portals, money county to muddle me or someone else, but that's the theme for themselves, but again I'm for freedom of the media, and you're obviously shutting down freedom of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32123	Answer, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32124	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you and I always sort of end up agreeing. So I, of course, am in favour of freedom of the media, and I am sure that all the MPs elected to this democratic assembly are in favour of freedom of the media. No one is talking about insults, no one is talking about any other sanctioning, but I will repeat responsibility in order to prevent the publication of content that encourages acts of terrorism, crimes related to child pornography, crimes related to racism and xenophobia. I can't believe anyone in Croatia, and especially here in this assembly would mind if those who share such content were sanctioned. In order for you to sanction them, you must know which, you must include the responsibility of the one who has given them the space in which such content is shared. I'm sure most of our citizens will agree to that, and we'll hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32125	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32126	Thank you. Dear Minister, my question concerns infringements, means the part where fines are prescribed to amount from 100,000 to millions of kuna. According to you, the appeal of small media owners who say that this level of initial of 100,000 kuna is very much for their business. They believe the offenders should be sanctioned adequately, but also say that 100,000 kuna for a small entrepreneur, the owner of a small media can mean the end of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32127	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32128	I think it's important to say that the levels of penalties have not changed since 2003. That these dragon sentences cannot be handed down by the council but exclusively by the court. So, according to our data, and we can later in the debate, I don't have all that data here right now, we've never had such a dragon's sentence, and all of it is between 15 and 20 fines a year, all of it in all of the media, I don't think there's ever been any more than 100,000 kunas, but I'll check it out. So it would really be some extreme, very harsh violations, but I would have to establish them in court, not the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32129	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32130	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, however, I had previously asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but because of the inability of the Parliament to work in these circumstances, I know exactly and I was raised to respect people and how you do not need to train us. Croatian defenders created a state for freedom of speech, but you impose everything here, from gender ideology to of course we will be against the content that is inappropriate. However, what are the criteria for me, as a politician, to say there in comments, to attack, are you going to ask for it or how will you do it? You will prescribe the Gospel of the media by Andrej Plenkovic It's not the freedom we fought for. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Freedom of speech is the greatest democratic The right to a constitution guaranteed. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32131	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, and that's why I'm giving you a warning. The next replica is the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32132	Thank you. Minister, here is a hypothetical case related to these comments and the responsibility of the publisher or the owner of the commentary portal. Let's say the text of Mayor Žinić below shows up comments that the mayor has 13 houses or employs people etc., so a comment that someone will tell false news. Will the portal be responsible for this false news or will it be processed by whoever published this false news? So, according to this, it's in art now. It turns out the portal will be responsible for some false news and false facts left by commentators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32133	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32134	Your Honor, Madam Representative. So I'll repeat that in relation to the article. 93s only to publish content that encourages violence or hatred, and in particular content that promotes acts of terrorism, crimes related to child pornography, crimes related to racism and xenophobia. I don't think any invitation to any kind of person, especially a public person, could be taken for granted by something like this. So we know what this is about and it would not be good to interpret the provisions that anyone will intervene with what the citizens think, regardless of what they say anonymously or by their name and by their last name. This is about serious crimes that someone has to answer for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32135	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32136	Thank you. Your Honors Minister. We recently had a DORH report here in HS for 2019. and there is very little in it in the hate speech, so this problem is in Croatia a controversial nature, so it is no big problem at all that you government want to welcome even though every hate speech is something that is not acceptable in a normal society. So you're going with this law to limit freedom, freedom of speech. Let us remember that once the President of the Parliament told Jandrokovic, that for them the biggest problem is also for this Government of the Facebook Social Network, you obviously do not respond to the comments on your country leadership and now you are going to introduce a self-censorship because which portal will be responsible for those who comment would rather completely disable the comments. So it's a classic censorship and we're gonna stand up hard against this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32137	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32138	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I suggest you read the article. 93th and read the article again. 93. I hope you've read it even though I'm not sure because if you'd read it, you wouldn't have claimed this. So, in art. 93. discusses the content that encourages acts of terrorism, crimes related to child pornography, crimes related to racism and xenophobia, and that is, nothing further and nothing less and nothing more. Whether such works have two, three, five or five hundred five each should be sanctioned and everyone is extremely harmful to our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32139	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nicola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32140	Injury. 230, Your Honor, I've read it quite well. You haven't read it. That's what my colleague Raspoudic proved to you here. Not that you haven't read it, but you're copying it from laws that used to be in force, and where the tipfelers were. So, you're the only one here who hasn't read anything. And as for all this stuff you've listed, no one normal can justify it, but we've seen with you all ready to declare everything terrorism. So we've had cases where you've accused the entire party of behind certain attacks you've called terrorist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32141	Time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Minister, you can go to your seat. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32142	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, the minister demeaned his representative, Grumo, by insinuating that he had not read the article. 93. Along with him, I commented and debated the article. In 93, and the minister manipulates because she is barging two items in response to questions. Please warn the MPs to allow me to speak and give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32143	Please allow the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32144	So, in one paragraph you're talking about the provisions of the Penal Code, so if you're against this manipulation of Orwell, you're okay with child pornography, racism and all that. No, two are an item in art. 93. One is the one who mentions criminal laws, and the other says, in accordance with Article. 14 of this Law, take all measures to prevent the publication of content that promotes violence or hatred [[Intruder: Time.]] And that remains arbitrary. [[Intruder: Time.]] That's where you manipulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32145	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure or of you, and I give you a warning. Next up, excuse me, committees, is there anyone on behalf of the board? Here you go. Committee on Information, Information and Media, Honorable Representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32146	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Information, Information and Media, as the home working body, discussed at the 3rd session held on 2 December 2020 the proposal for a Law on Electronic Media submitted to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 12 November 2020. In an introductory explanation which you may have heard in a slightly modified form in the presentation of the Minister, the Minister pointed out that the proposed Law and the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia would transpose the provisions of the EU Directive. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid the most attention to the article. 93 century 3 Proposal for a Law, which states that the electronic publication provider is responsible for the overall content of electronic communication, including the content that... users have also warned of the possibility of abuse by providers as well as that providers may be able to eliminate comments sooner and thereby prevent critical expressions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has also been said that hate speech should be contained in any case, but the problem is that it is not sufficiently defined and it is necessary to find a balance between suppressing hate speech and freedom of expression. The opinion was also expressed that the above paragraph should be deleted from the draft law. In addition, the reference is made to the term ‘natural identity’ referred to in Article 1(1). 14, 22, 71, 97 and it was also proposed to delete it, but it was agreed that, as well as the other concepts of those articles, they remain under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The proposed law also received a number of commendations, primarily due to the greater transparency of the publication of media service providers' data related to the publication of ownership structure on the websites, as well as the publication of data related to amounts and sources of funding, and the introduction of the obligation to grant funds to finance the production and publication of regional and local programmes through a public call on the basis of publicly published criteria. It is also assessed positive that audio-visual services should not include an incentive to violence or hatred directed against groups or members of a group based on gender-based discrimination, race, skin colour, ethical or social origin, genetic features of language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age, sexual orientation or citizenship, as well as content that causes terrorist crime to take place. The Committee members also praised efforts to protect Croatia.../incomprehensible/..., the Committee members also praised efforts to protect Croatian cultural identity through the increase in the quota of Croatian music, Croatian audio-visual works and the introduction of a quota for the works of independent audio-visual producers, as well as solutions aimed at protecting minors who are increasingly needed in view of new techniques and technologies. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to HS the following conclusions by a majority of votes, with 6 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions: 1. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media is hereby adopted; and 2. All opinions, objections and proposals presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32147	Thank you. Is there any other committee willing to take a word for it? There isn't. Then we'll have a discussion. I'm opening a debate. The first meeting was called by the Club of Representatives of the Sovereigns, the Honorable Representative of Pavliček and Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32148	Dear Vice-President of the HS, Your Honors Minister. Under the cover of compliance with EU legislation, this bill brings us back to a dark period of communist regimes because you make it impossible for Croatian citizens to express their own position freely because you are making it impossible and restricting freedom of opinion, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 38, and also contrary to the UN General Declaration of Human Rights. And the greatest absurdity of what I still believe is that you, the minister, have broken this law, Art. 28, current law, i.e. 33 of the new bill, which says: "State bodies and their representatives and trade unions and different stakeholders shall not affect the broadcaster and/or the radio as regards the creation of an audio-visual or radio programme." Namely, on March 17th, ahead of the crown of the pandemic itself, right near HS, in the government's rooms at a secret meeting initiated by the prime minister, where you attended with the main editors of media houses in the Republic of Croatia, it was made clear that they should report on the crown of the pandemic. An even more precise example of a violation. 33 of this bill, it took place on 23 December at a meeting of the government where Prime Minister Plenkovic told reporters in front of TV cameras, and everything related to the start of vaccination in Croatia, I quote it, the campaign bearer is HZJZ and we will help them there. I expect the most open of all media outlets to get involved in this and it's tight. I underline once again, the responsibility of the media and the internet space, to remove these nebuloses that exist on the air and that your editorial policy, N1, Nova, RTL and HTV, you all have this role to play, there is no dilemma. These are the words of Prime Minister Plenkovic, while resisting journalists who attended the cabinet's session. This is an exact example of a violation. 33. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media. Earth, open up. When the Proposer violates his own law. Earth, open up. This is only in the Republic of Croatia and you can deny it as much as you want, but unfortunately it's true. But now we go back to the lack of the law itself. Namely, in Art. This law, paragraph 3, states that the electronic publication provider is responsible for the overall content published in the electronic publication, including the content generated by users. Let's say laysky, so the owner of one portal will be responsible for all the contents or comments of the reader that will be written under articles published for hate speech as you say. Are you aware that the owner of the portal is even able to monitor this entire space and why would he be responsible for what a reader will write? This same owner of the portal will be forced because he has no resources, shut down the possibility of commenting and we return back to a dark period, we go back 20 years when we do not have a two-way communication that enables the Internet 2.0, but a unilateral communication, or just news articles that are presented to us depending on the ideological sign of the author himself. But while we are discussing these laws, at the same time large companies, social networks, Facebook, Twitter, can, without any problems, voluntarily by their assessment, block the user for a long time, download his publication, post without any explanation or institution in the Republic of Croatia will decide which content is true and which is not. And this same factographer is made up of people who have a certain ideology that doesn't have to be the same as my ideology, your ideology, and they need to decide whether any content is true or not. I therefore believe that Croatia needs a law that will allow the respect of all rights and freedoms of Croatian citizens on social networks and internet space. As in many ways, this time Poland can be an example of us because they plan to pass a law that protects the rights and freedoms of its citizens on social networks that will allow Poles to have the possibility of appeal in case of blocking profiles or publication, and the sensor itself can be financially punished if the bias in censoring certain publications on social networks is determined. Unfortunately, Croatia is far from Poland, far from protecting its own citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32149	I've been stolen for half a minute again. I can only say "Amen" here after my colleague, but here's what I'm going to say. One of the dumbest, dumbest and most miserable statements the Croatian government has made is the so-called Interpretative or interpretative statement concerning the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, which states, among other things, "The Republic of Croatia considers that the provisions of the Convention do not contain the obligation to introduce gender ideology into the Croatian legal and educational system." And then we take this proposal of the law, the Law on Electronic Media, and then here in the article. 93, 14, 22, 71, 97 mentions a strange birth identity. And the minister in the replica just now couldn't say, explain what a birth identity is, so that citizens might not be wrong about the articles of this law tomorrow. She doesn't dare say that. And he says that it was also in the previous bill of law, i.e. the current law, was, in one article, an article. The 64th was really mentioned, however, what is very important here to say that as far as the Croatian Constitution is concerned, there is no birth identity in the Croatian Constitution, it is not mentioned. Art. 17. talks about the inequality of persons with respect to race, skin color, sex, language, faith, national and social origin, and that is it. Some new fluid birth identity doesn't mention it, but we systematically mention it with all the bill proposals wherever we can, we push. No, we Croatian sovereigns or the Government of A. Plenkovic do. Now, this is an observation, let it be ruled out, and I ask you to explain as a proposing what this is all about. Here I really don't know what birth identity means. I know what sex is. And which means gender, or what this law means here, I don't know. A colleague mentioned an article. 93. which refers to, means, paragraph 93.3., the electronic publication provider responsible for the overall content published in the electronic publication, including the content generated by and the users. Here, question, hear the question. Does that apply to your Facebook page, too, Minister? Now, here's an example, now a colleague of anyone or a colleague, makes some kind of comment that tells you something about a birthmark, is it your fault or is it the one who wrote something against his birth identity? Here, that's what I'm curious about, or is the service provider in this case, Facebook, so he'll answer? So, who's answering? Provider, the one in charge, Twitter, Facebook or you? This is a very specific question, please talk about this. And here's a concrete example so tell me a little bit who's actually censoring us right now? I've repeatedly been met with censorship on social networks, for the first time it was when I published a picture of Free Praljko, the day after his or that night after he died. Then my profile was blocked, not just by my thousand other profiles, and every time someone publishes a picture of Free Prajka. Is Free Praljak breaking into these categories of what you listed? What category is he in, where is he? I don't know. Who's controlling it? And let me give you a concrete example, here it is from two days ago. I'm blocked again, I'm blocked this time on Twitter's social network for this announcement, so tell me, you teach me what I did wrong. And the announcement says, "This looks great, on the social network where free-minded left-wings dominate, there are as many as 600 Catholics who would protect life, despite the great effort of the advancers," I said, of course. "I also have to realize that the incredible amount of anger and hatred of supporters killing the unborn." And Twitter is blocking me there, reducing me..., making it impossible for me to act. Minister, what rule of law did I break? Current, this problem. I know that my colleague Bencic, Boric, I suppose, and Puljak is fine with this, but to us Croatian sovereigns, this does not suit us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32150	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32151	Thank you, gentlemen, to the representatives of Pavliček and Zekanovic. I always understand that we are here on behalf of the government to, of course, explain to you parliamentarians, but it follows us and spreads the public so that some of the questions you've raised simply must be answered immediately. First of all, in my opening statement, I said that this law does not apply to social media. So, your Facebook and your Twitter are your social network accounts, this law doesn't edit social networks. I'm sorry if you've been blocked, I don't think that's good, and I think it's important that the Croatian public keeps hearing your thesis and your thinking. You're asking a question about what a birth identity is, I can't explain it to you because I'm not an expert on these issues. I suppose you're more concerned about this subject, you're talking about the third toilet and stuff, so I'm sure you know a lot more about it than I do. It's not the subject of the Electronic Media Act. I will repeat the provisions that have been transposed by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, as of 2009. as an acquis of that law and the decision of the Parliament of that time, which was then passed by that law in such a statement. I find it very difficult to accept that anyone can claim that the bill violates the Declaration of Human Rights or that we are returning to a dark age. So, Croatia is a democratic country, the laws we make, and we bring them in accordance with the Constitution, in the 1990s, we plebiscitely decided to come out of the dark age and I am sure that no one and no laws can bring us back to it. No one affected the publishers, no one violated the article. 33., however, in this particular case, and since your party is sovereigns, there was one threat, a serious threat, and we still live in a serious period and it is perfectly natural for the media to talk about it, not in a way that would oblige them to speak of something in some way as you see at least our government being questioned daily by all the media of all possible, from all sides, and that is legitimate. I, as the minister in charge of the media, will always advocate this, but in situations of serious threat to society, to the state, to our citizens, and the pandemic in which we live is a serious threat logically, expected and responsible by the government to communicate on the findings, on the plans. We are very transparent in all our performances, and so we will continue to be. In the end, I'm going back to this article. 93., this is the subject, therefore, of comments or user-generated content and the topic of a new act on digital services, it will probably edit this area more closely at EU level, but I believe that this bill is precisely on the trail of such solutions that will be offered in this digital act. And what I did not say at the outset, the question of responsibility of content publishers was confirmed by the decision of the European Court of Justice, as you know the decisions of the European Court of Justice are actually directly applied in our legislative framework, so no matter how we interpret it or not interpret it in the text of the law, such a provision that says that the publishers are responsible for the content, for the full content including comments generated by the users is already binding and covering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32152	You have several replicas. The first is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Zekanovic already has one injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32153	Yeah, I know, I know I do. So, the Honorable Vice President, 238, of course, the secretary's colleague didn't respond here at all, in fact, she was speechless. So she mentions to me that I haven't mentioned the toilet in my life, but you would also mention how many times the stars in some skyscrapers that I, I didn't come down so low to mention, and when we do, I will also mention to the Croatian public that during your term, I did not prevent it from being introduced into the Croatian libraries by LGBTIQ departments and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32154	Time. First of all, it's not right to tell the minister to say nothing because she didn't tell you either. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to give you a second warning. And now the replica. Injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, a colleague of Zekanovic's injured an article. 238, again, he does not know how to behave in the assembly, except that he said something bad, he said something, etc., again, he's telling the truth because the whole one debate was headed to the toilet in this assembly that would bear the term "what" when we talked about the Istanbul Convention and he found his birth ideology and his birth identity. He gave us all a lecture here. It's been almost four years. Ever since then, they're still the same I think those toilets, they don't say "it" anywhere, and he's built his political career on it and of course he's denying it now. Although there is a lot of it in the phonograms if you'd go looking for it. [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32156	You're also, you're not, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32157	Dear Minister, Mr. Boric will get a safe cookie from this Prime Minister, you have said one thing here that you didn't first explain to me what birth identity is, which you should know as a promoter, you could ask around, phone, there's an associate, you didn't say, I would like the Croatian public to hear it from you and you have to say it, you have to say it, don't ignore it. And now in response to the replica, say what it is and the Croatian public needs to hear it from you, you are the promoter, you know what this document says and say it. The other thing, one purely technical thing, obviously you're not under-informed, but I guess your associates are, most of the portals are connected to social networks today, or comments on portals actually come because they're connected to social networks. You can't even comment on the portals if you're not logged into the social network at all. Those two just can't be separated, I don't know how you thought of doing it, maybe you were thinking of coming up with a new Internet of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32158	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32159	Mr. MP, as I said, the question you are raising is not a question of the measure of this law, this law regulates electronic media, the work of electronic media, the responsibility of publishers, the work of the Council for Electronic Media, the Agency for Electronic Media, the conditions of award of concessions, etc. And as far as the question of user-generated content and technology is concerned, it simply has nothing to do with each other, so what this law regulates electronic media and user-generated content, and whether you published it in a way that you directly connected with your own, with your account on a social network or you sent email is completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32160	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32161	Thank you very much Minister, I support you in your attempt to explain what this is about and that this attempt to tell the stories of the sovereigns and MOST is not what it says in this law, and we must insist on this today because it is done on purpose, given that they are indeed dealing with social networks probably also have their own portals because it is very well visible in view of the way the news is transmitted, to which these portals are addressed, etc. and they're probably bothered by something here, and it's not what they want, so that the hate speech they're talking about isn't the story this law's talking about, so today we're going to explain exactly what it says so that what they've been up to in the media is not what they've been up to for several months as an introduction to the debate on this law, and that's not what I'm saying, I'm saying, we're going to repeat again that they're going to put themselves as the great protectors of these media, and all the time they're only talking about the one where there's censorship, and there's no show where they're not the same. They're there all the time on that TV, and they keep saying there's censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32162	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32163	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for reminding you of what is the measure of this law, and I hope, as we did during the morning and today, that a very high-quality and informed debate on the Copyright Act will help us to come to another reading with an even better law, that this debate will be focused in the same way tonight. This is what we expect from publishers and journalists who work in electronic media, but also the general public who monitors and consumes you because this really is one part of our creative industry that is extremely pro-pulsing, but it also has many problems in its business and in its action, and we believe that this law will allow everyone who works in the media to act in a much better way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32164	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32165	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238., here is my colleague, Boric, who is false, meaning that Croatian sovereigns are those who protect the media because they are the most prominent in these media, which simply does not respond to the truth, so Croatian sovereigns are at least on daily political shows from "Open" and similar in contrast to some representatives of the ruling who have one or two representatives here, and appear 7-8 times, meaning in the last few months, such as colleagues, Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32166	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32167	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. 238, as it is. I think the minister has explained too much what this law is about and what it doesn't apply to. But here he obviously wants to insult both the minister and the individual MPs, and he turns to the metrics, or subject that we are discussing tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32168	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have a warning. The next replica is Boška Ban Vlahek's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32169	Thank you. There are many problems in the media, and this bill ignores most of them as I have said on several occasions. It is also questionable whether they will solve those who need to be treated as hate speech on the Internet. The minister has repeatedly pointed out that the new law will go towards creating a climate of tolerance, disabling hate speech on portals. But it is evident from the minister's actions that she, like this government, tolerates as much as possible hate speech and fake news. How else to explain that millions of kunas were awarded by Croatian citizens to right-wing portals that spread impatience, such as the portal I recognise, which received 1.3 million kunas. Hate on portals should end, but whose cost will go to moderating or removing comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32170	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32171	Dear Madam MPs, hate is too much, hate speech is much and too much in our public space. This law should make a small contribution to those cases when violating the provisions of the Penal Code. What is most important is to invest in media literacy in order to educate our citizens to recognize inappropriate content, to refrain from sharing them. And that's why I think it's important for this law to establish a commitment, what is foreseen to encourage media literacy. As for your comment on the fact that the minister has allocated some funds, as I have responded earlier to representatives who are very well aware of the procedures for the allocation of European funds. Ministers do not decide, the Committee decided on the basis of a project that apparently met the criteria on whether it was a right-wing or left-wing portal. It would be completely wrong for anyone from the government's position to judge or appreciate it. All we have to do here is to control whether someone is breaking the law or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32172	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the next club debate, it's the Green Left Block representative club, the distinguished representative Boris and Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32173	... several general observations. [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[Saanader raider: A microphone!]] This is the first and only media law proposed by this government. The law is important, but in our opinion it seems that a significant problem of news media is being bypassed. And so some solutions are just cosmetic. We've probably heard from Madam Secretary that it's not a matter of harmony, i.e. the question of compliance with the new era, the new digital age but it seems, however, that it could not have avoided compliance with Directive 20/10. Since this is already the only law we believe that three things that are of paramount importance should be resolved, and in a public debate with medialogists, journalists, journalists, their associations, and that is, then we should not have this many hate speech disputes as a general definition of public interest, the definition of public interest in relation to the financing of media from the Pluralism Fund, and then to define, but not in a bureaucratic way and professionally devise a system of allocation of these funds, and in particular we heard from the minister that some improvements have been introduced, so I should quote a full revision of how members of the council are elected, which is as well as the HRT totally party instrumentalised. This, of course, is a question of how we should solve all this together through a comprehensive media strategy that we are still waiting for. It is also particularly important that in this analysis, in order to be able to resolve certain matters, you must be required to adopt laws in accordance with the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, and here, as in any other case, you do not have that analysis. And here's only one piece specifically because I'm going to share time with my colleague. It is not clear why Article 3 has no idea why non-profit producers of audio-visual or radio programmes exist in the current law. According to the book of non-profit producers of audio-visual and/or radio programmes of the Agency for Electronic Media in Croatia, there are 59 non-profit producers who have produced numerous quality media content for the past 7 years, and thus have really contributed significantly to media pluralism. Deleting them from the ZEMA will also mean erasing valuable and human resources, as well as technical resources developed by non-profit producers over the past years. This erasure would also mean that non-profit producers of audio-visual and/or radio programmes no longer have the right to apply for a tender for the funds of the Pluralism Fund, which we consider to be inadmissible discrimination against this group of media actors who, as well as practice, show products exclusively media content of public interest. Therefore, we ask that non-profit producers of the audio-visual radio programme be reintroduced, i.e. in Article 71 of this proposal. And now there's a colleague named Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32174	Thank you. So here's what I'm going to try to say in these few minutes about the prism through which everyone should actually look at this law, which is its purpose. So, of course, the key debate here is whether this law proportionally or in fact disproportionately and excessively limits freedom of expression and media freedom. So, Art. 10 The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which is part of the internal law of the Republic of Croatia, but according to the hierarchy of regulations above the law, says that everyone has the right to freedom of expression and that this includes freedom of opinion which is the only absolute freedom, but also freedom to receive and transfer information and ideas without interference of public authorities and regardless of borders. However, given that only freedom of opinion is absolute, the achievement of all these other freedoms includes both rights and responsibilities, i.e. duties and responsibilities, and may be subject to certain formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties prescribed by law, and then I will tell you more about the condition. Now, what does that mean? This law actually deals with it, establishes what are duties and responsibilities, which are criteria, which are formalities, what are conditions and limitations. However, all these formalities are a condition of limitations, they must be necessary in a democratic society. They must be prescribed by law and must be prescribed in such a way that they are proportionate to the legitimate objective we want to achieve. There are six legitimate objectives, I won't bother you with them, but these are the objectives of protecting the reputation and rights of others, the interests of state security, etc. And precisely in terms of necessity in a democratic society, we must consider whether this law is adequate to strengthen freedom of expression and media freedom. So I'm going to say right through that prism I'm looking at the provision of an article. 16 and I believe that it is not necessary in a democratic society that the legislator prescribes what the media should be and what it must do, and in particular should not prescribe it in a way that includes a very large number of interpretative concepts which are not sufficiently predictable in terms of what is required of it, for example, it is said that media service providers and electronic publications are obliged to promote impartiality, are also required to ensure that all types of opinions and different approaches are adequately represented. In my view, it is not appropriate to regulate the law in a way that it is a obligation of a media because we can really have biased media that are in some political spectrum, which in some way see things, we can require them to be transmitted to the truth, but that does not mean that they cannot show them in a particular context, but the overall media image should be the one that gives a variety of opinions, views and contexts to citizens. Now, I personally consider that an article. 16 should be completely deleted and only what the media absolutely must not, which is in part and prescribed. And let me remind you, one of the key decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, Handyside versus the UK of '76. Mr. said the following, and it's very important for this when we estimate whether we went a little too far into regulation or not. So he says that freedom of expression is one of the fundamentals of society, necessary for its progress and the development of every human being and that it is applicable, not only to information or ideas that are received well-intentioned or not considered offensive or indifferent, but also to all the information that offends, which shocks the state or some part of the population because such are the requirements of pluralism, therefore, and tolerance and openness without which there is no democratic society. So the information that is offensive falls under freedom of speech and information that shocks, falls under freedom of speech and expression. What does not belong to freedom of speech and expression, i.e. there is no convention protection, is hate speech. But in order to do so in law, we must also clearly define what hate speech is because it seems to me through statements by certain representatives of the government that they want to interpret under hate and those things that are absolutely free of speech, such as, for example, insult politicians. So the insults have conventional protection, especially those directed to politicians, and the European Court of Human Rights has told countless times that it is the politicians who have to suffer a higher level of public criticism and that what applies to an ordinary citizen is also valid for them, so he told the Austrian state that he has wronged and violated the human rights of the journalist who told Hader that he is an idiot because it is okay to say that he is an idiot. Telling the Prime Minister that you hate him isn't hate speech. But to say that all members of a particular people should be killed is a hate speech. And that is, what we need to regulate and what we need to make appropriate, and for this reason we believe that certain things should be clearly excluded from the application of sanctions, especially satire, and also insults that go towards certain functions in society, but clearly prescribe what hate speech is. which will not be tolerated. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32175	Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32176	My colleagues and fellow MPs. The basic feature of this law is cynicism. Cinism is already seen in the general principles where the following is stated, art. 4th century 1, freedom of expression and full software freedom of electronic media are guaranteed. St. 2, no provision of this law can be interpreted as giving the right to censorship or restricting the right to freedom of speech and expression of thought, you will only pay one million kuna if you go past.../incomprehensible/... otherwise free, reminds of that Soviet joke Radio Yerevan, when you listen to the call Radio Yerevan and asks if it is true that there is freedom of speech in the Soviet Union. In principle, there is freedom of speech, but there is no freedom after speech. In this case, these fines are from 100,000 to million kuna. The Minister assures us no, no, nothing that says will apply. It is a disputed Article 93 in which there are 2 paragraphs one is called to criminal law and this is where we all agree on paedophilia, racism and everything else, but there is another item that is undefined and says, in accordance with Article 14 of this law, to take all measures to prevent the publication of content that encourages violence or hatred, and the one that arbitrations over what promotes violence or hatred, which is not of course the Ministry of Love or the competent authorities. In paragraph 3, the electronic publication provider shall be responsible for the overall content published in the electronic publication, including the content generated by the users. And then Article 97 provides for a fine of 100,000 to million kuna. What does that mean? So this means that the portal, and most of them are on the verge of de facto existence, will eliminate the comments because why would they risk a fine of 100,000 to millions of kuna for something that someone will leave in comment. That's the whole point. He's a troublemaker, and I've got a very difficult letter of this law, but his spirit is also a problem. It's a spirit of hypernormation that I normally see as an EU problem of bureaucracy, a negative tendency where everything has to be normalized, from the definition of cucumbers, the length of cucumbers to make cucumbers a cucumber to human relations. It doesn't have to be in the law. The law had to be minimum. Where things work out between people without laws, he doesn't need to. So legal regulation is only necessary where you can't do it without it. In Croatia, statistics say on these issues that we are absolutely not the case because we are the best in the EU. In a civilized community, there is something called bonton, home education, good taste, honor, courtesy, tact, education, empathy, solidarity, all the positive qualities that people develop in free interaction and that represent the connective tissue of society. And people need to be approached as free, responsible individuals, and not as some haters maniacs that the state needs to slow down everywhere and in every place and hypernormize everything. The problem with hate speech is the artificially produced problem. What people used to chew on the toilet door now have the opportunity to put somewhere in the comments, but we all as readers develop some filters, those who insult the machinally already skip if we even look at those comments. That it is an artificial production of problems, says figures, statistics on hate crimes, where we are among the repeaters of the best in the EU, 2019. The DORH has been reported to 60 people, accused of 40, 13 hate crimes. As for hate speech in 2019. 59 applications of 39 rejected, verdicts for 13 of them 11 convicts. So it's not a big and significant social problem at all that we have to have this kind of artillery that will narrow down freedom of speech to prepare for it. We already have a legislative framework that sanctions all of this and should not, under that excuse, choke the freedom of the media and freedom of speech in general and use it as a cover for continuing anthropological experiments on the whole people. Hate and love are increasingly being used as some beatings in a political struggle. I don't hate it, so you hate it. Prove you don't hate it, and I'll get the arbitration. Will you rename the ministry to the Ministry of Love? On the psychological side, this comment ban is not good. People need to be left with some valves. The world will never be perfect. If you can prevent the expression of hate on the Internet, the same speech will probably and will be enhanced by underground media channels. That doesn't solve hate. This also means ending anonymity in comments, and that anonymity is very often important. Some things are found out, some indicators and leave in anonymous comments because people are afraid for existence, like crime and corruption, which is with whistles. You're talking about the comments Boric so your.../incomprehensible/... were convicted of it in that campaign. Now, a colleague of Zekanovic asked what is a birth certificate? It is one structure theoretical that says that birth identity is a subjective feeling of its own birth, and gender is very difficult to separate from sex because it is some social roles and constructs of expectations from a particular sex. However, if we go to discuss what it means to be a woman, the role that society expects of a woman? Well, she's not the same woman in Sweden and women in Afghanistan. So that's already two different breeds. They are not women in Croatia in 2021 and women in 1960, when we go to work on it we come de facto to how many people so many breeds. And now one such fluid construct is theoretically inserted into legislation. Well, that's breaking the legislation, putting something so fluid. The word ideology means an idea that complains to impose in practice, which is why we are talking about gender ideology because in the end something that is a theoretical construct, when it is pushed into the law at the end of a hard reality, which is that a biological man enters the ring with a biological woman, we have American examples and breaks her head or that a convicted rapist in England says born he feels like a woman did neither surgery nor hormonal therapy, puts him in a women's prison and rapes 2 women there, that's the case from 2018 Kerin White is called a woman. They're real problems. How'd that history go? The birth identity is first introduced into the Croatian legislation by the 2008 Law on Discretion of Discrimination by Sanader, you remember Eve Sanader, you know who it is, did you hear when about this man? Ivo Sanader. There was one. Because we need to join the EU, and then we'll eat, they'll pour honey and milk, so here we go, we'll put it in the legislation, only Mariana Petir was against it. Then step, two, 2009 in Art. 65th of March of the Fund, there is still no birth identity, but there is one in the article. 12, so testically put that birth identity somewhere, no one noticed. Then here it is in 2013 in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media and in Art. 64. Following the Istanbul Convention as step four, they were against Celic, Jelkovac, Stier, Dodig and the late Professor. Tudjman of the representatives elected in this conference. And then here's step five, now suddenly the birth identity in even four articles of this law. It enters the fundamental human rights and freedoms, and constitutional and what guarantees the Declaration of Human Rights. For example, a portal published by the initiator of the Apostolic Pope Francis, who is otherwise a very liberal pope, risks a fine of one million kuna. Not only the portal, if one puts these words in a commentary from the papal initiative where he speaks of it, “is warning of the different forms of specific ideology generally called gender ideology that denies divergence, of course, in the complementarity of men and women.” Then, in the second place of that initiative, Pope Francis says: “This ideology imagines a society without distinction between sex, which makes me the anthropological foundation of the family. It triggers educational plans and legislative orientations that promote the perception of personal self-awareness and a sense of closeness that are rooted out of the biological differences between men and women." By adopting this law portal and even a comment that conveys the passage of the “Amoris laetitia” Pope Franje can be punished by a million kunas. Yes, it's very clear, every lawyer will explain it to you, for this you will raise your hand. That's what you need to know. Fellow left, this may now suit you, water to your mill but this machine that is now being built, in 10 years the extreme right in the EU and Berlin can take over, so we defend pluralism and freedom. Don't let it be because perhaps at the moment, ideologically this suits you, that this is how human rights and freedoms are channeled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32177	Time. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, it's very difficult when you're explaining some draft law, and when there's a lot of issues that don't appear in the law in the debate. At one point you said, you will pay a million kuna, there is no freedom after the speech, and then you will be punished by the Ministry of Culture as a competent body, you have called it the Ministry of Love, the Ministry of Culture and the media is called by the law on the Government adopted in this House. It's not the Ministry of Culture and Media, it's the Council for Electronic Media. You're talking about hypernormation, about Eu bureaucracy but it's some narrative, I don't know what it comes from, but it's a narrative, it's your legitimate right, some others think that certain values, European values that we've advocated and that we've adopted, make significant contributions to our democratic society. The truth is that this law chokes the freedom of the media and freedom of speech, especially to prohibit commentary. It's not forbidden to comment, it doesn't say it anywhere in this law, I said it in the introduction, I'll repeat it as many times as it takes. It is determined responsibility that whoever is responsible will act in the event of a violation of the law is the decision of one who is obliged or able to act in the event of a violation of the law, can ignore it and then wait for a judicial order rather than any other, can reach for what we have said, numerous solutions that exist in other countries, whether in some way limit the time period in which comments can be made, that those who believe to break the law can remove, you also have those modern notes and take down as you speak cut-paste, then I will also use this term. As far as anonymity is concerned, anonymity is important when applying for whistles, etc., but I don't believe that we advocate anonymity if someone commits criminal acts. And calling on terrorism, promoting child pornography and such acts, these are crimes. This part about birth identities, gender ideology, or whatever it is you interpret, it's hard for me, I can only repeat that it's in art. Article 14(2), wording of the same definition in the existing law, Art. Paragraph 22, subparagraph 2, shall be read in accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and Art. 71st introduced earlier into the law, like I said. Regarding some more topics highlighted by the previous club, the election of members of the Council for Electronic Media, during EU accession, we held a very broad public debate on how to vote, and then it was concluded that the way members were elected was adequate. And in the public debate and in numerous public appearances, I said that we are always open to improvements if someone brings out any improvements on how to elect members of the Electronic Media Council. In this debate, there were none other than the Croatian Journalist Society, which proposed that two council members be appointed on a direct proposal from the Croatian Journalist Society. It is our opinion that this would define the role of this High House and that it is not possible to equate the mandate of parliamentarians to elect members of the Council and one association. As regards non-profit producers, this was introduced in the law of 2014, but they do not have in this law except that definition had no obligation and were introduced only to be able to withdraw funds from the fund, however, one major part of them are non-profits as such listed in the register and as such can be participated into the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32179	Several replicas, the first to be respected is Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32180	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. Recently, an imaginary interview with an academic cardiologist was published on a portal, not only is it advertised a potentially dangerous drug, but the identity of a respected doctor is also similar to that of a diabetic. And the pharmacy monitors all this and states that for three years they have been following such ads and regularly reporting them to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry and HALMED, but they have no feedback from anyone, only they have been contacted by HALMED and said it is not in their jurisdiction. It's also a problem that some local television shows are also published for advertising similar products that are also just the doctor's or the doctor's signed one. And now from the MUP, they say that on the basis of anonymous or signed reports, they are reporting reconnaissances or, if they do so with their own knowledge, end internet domains, they deactivate them. And now I'm asking since you're in this I couldn't find anything on what your comment was about that identity theft. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32181	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32182	If such content is found as content in electronic media, then the procedure is conducted by the Council for Electronic Media, most often by means of links to advertisements that lead to social media sites most often, and is not in the jurisdiction, so since this law does not regulate social media, it is not regulated by this law, but if something appears on the radio, television or electronic publications then it is necessary to make an application to the Council for Electronic Media and they act accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32183	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nino Raspoudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32184	Your Honors Minister. With this answer on behalf of the promoter, you didn't respond to what I said, you just confirmed my thesis on basic cynicism the way the law is presented. You say, the law does not prohibit comments, so I did not claim it, the law only prescribes that I can pay a fine of 100,000 to millions of kuna portals and ultimately lead to self-censorship and that it will remove the comments. And it's particularly cynical for you to mention pedophile again, terrorism to no one here is controversial, it's punishable and criminal law, the problem is what's in paragraph 2. In 93, where you leave a decision on this fluid incentive to hate and violence. I've told the authority of the Ministry of Love, I know well that it's the Council for Electronic Media and I know well how to choose. So you didn't answer anything just confirm my basic thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32185	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32186	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. It's hard for me to answer the thesis that doesn't come out of this law. We can do this in a very long way, but I think the purpose of this debate is to discuss what is written in the law, and this law does not say that anyone will be restricted to freedom of speech or that anyone will be censored or that any content will be removed. How the publishers will relate to the content that violates the potential provisions of the Penal Code or the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination will be decided by the publishers. Some may react to this, some will not, and in the end the word of it will be brought by Croatian courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32187	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32188	Thank you very much. Minister, freedom of speech like I said is what we fought for a long time. The fact is that fellow Raspoudic said that we have sanctions from 100,000 to million kuna that will be sanctioned portals, is that you stated that it would be a matter of gender ideology, this one, this one, and he only quoted if someone quoted the Pope as to the position of his birth ideology that this portal would have to pay up to one million kuna or some bishop or not a significant or head of an Islamic community, no matter what measures. So we were brought here to ban freedom of speech and diversity of opinion. We're not talking about paedophiles here, we're not talking about criminals, we're not talking about terrorists, of course it's punishable, and we're not talking about punishment. We must not and do not have the right to reduce the right to speak, and do not allow yourself to be a gravedigger of freedom of speech in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32189	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32190	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I certainly wouldn't stand in this place and defend in the name of this government any regulation that would limit freedom of speech to anyone, to find something like that in any proposal for a regulation, and I would personally respond, so that if one of you showed me in any way how you read this bill as something that restricts freedom of speech, I would be happy to answer that. But since it doesn't come from the text of this law, I can only repeat what I said, specifically Article. 93., just introduces the responsibility of the publisher for the full content of the publication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32191	The next replica is the esteemed representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32192	Dear Minister, we have already pointed out this problem of repression, especially of this punishment, in Article 97. In paragraph 1, point 9, in fact, where do you predict that from 100 thousand kuna to one million kunas will be extremely repressively dealt with by offenders, but what? In point 9, you predicted that you would punish this fine by a legal person who would audio-visual... the activity to encourage potentially medically harmful or safety-hazarding actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's scary! We have had the opportunity to listen, or to read the report of USKOK and the criminal policy of our courts, so legal persons for the most serious forms of crimes committed do not pass the sentence of some 11, 12, 15, 30,000 kuna. So please coordinate that. The legal order deserves to be in harmony with its own policy, its repression, its parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32193	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32194	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I will repeat that the heights of punishment are exactly the same in this law from 2003 until today. In order to gain some impression, the notice is from 2016 to 2020. Notice issued in total 33 by the Council for Electronic Media. In particular, 6, 7, 3, 11 and 6 in 2020. As far as the infringement is concerned, from 4 years from 2016 to 2019, there were 13 in total. 2016 3. 2017. none, 2018. 9 and 2019 one. Therefore, the Council for Electronic Media has rarely reached even for a violation, let alone by referring to the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32195	Next is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction that you have given the children with developmental difficulties and disabled persons enough in this law. People with disabilities, their representatives, when this law began to be spoken of, expressed their satisfaction, and I am glad that here today I can convey it here. And as for birth identity, I have to look at it for a little while, so I don't understand why it bothers someone, for example, to raise awareness of the equality of anyone, or even their birth identities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32197	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32198	Thank you, Madam Representative. As the first point when I instructed those improvements to the law we see and which we want to highlight, I highlighted the precisely greater effort of all the media to adapt their services and enable access to people with disabilities. We know that this is one obligation that requires and significant material resources from publishers, but I must point out that all the media have actually accepted and they will gradually, of course, give them the opportunity to work to adapt their services to disabled persons. And according to the new directive, there will now be regular reports that will allow us to monitor the reach of this policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32199	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32200	Thank you. You told the Ministers that this article 93. So it's not about those possible false news, it's only about these specific, hate speech cases, violence, child pornography, etc. However, as it is written and this paragraph three is actually unclear and provides opportunities for various interpretations and manipulations, is it because you say that in this paragraph 3. The electronic publication provider shall be responsible for the overall content and content generated by the users. So it's true that in paragraph 2. We have all the obligations listed, but someone can interpret this item 3 as something that can then be called upon in these cases that I asked earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32201	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32202	Thank you, Madam Representative. Therefore, the electronic publication provider is responsible for the overall content. So in the debate, we focused most on these comments, so user-generated content. However, the electronic publication provider is equally responsible, for example, for the content of all commercial audio-visual commercial communications, so all advertising, and is therefore responsible for what the representative previously pointed out when they are falsely published using the names of certain persons to advertise certain products and for this there is some sanctions. Therefore, this paragraph 3 only speaks of the fact that the publisher of an electronic publication is as responsible as the broadcaster of television or radio.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32203	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32204	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The truth is that this law does not talk about removing comments under these texts especially on portals. But what happened today. The colleagues at MOST already know in advance what will happen and then, given that some punishment they won't allow comments even though it doesn't say anything. These are their prophecies, as always, always known. A MOST look at his profiles. Well, it's an entire entertainment industry. So video offices where people, characters, personality cults, names, titles, insults their political opponents, etc. Try writing Miri Bulju or Nikola Grumoji an ugly comment. You will see how long and how long that friendship will last with those profiles. You're going to the block right now. There's not much thinking. Everything that's worth to others isn't worth it to them. That's why this is funny what they say because they say that we can behave without responsibility in the whole area without any responsibility. You can write an author's piece and when the other works go, then let everyone write what I want. Okay, let them write without responsibility. If that's it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32205	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32206	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As Plenkovic's snowflake, my colleague Boric really has inexhaustible ideas, so I'm giving up on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32207	Okay. Since you've said it as a replica, you're being warned. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32208	I personally believe that writing a comment under a false name is not really an expression of my own opinion. It's actually hiding behind something and behind someone. I think that's what I said to the board at the end of the day, if there's a possibility or a danger that a portal is going to shut down the comments because it's afraid of the danger of calling on terrorism, pornography and something else, then there's a rule that's what I mentioned that everyone who writes comments to sign up under the right name and last name. In what way? To use the certificates they'll have on their ID cards. New IDs are in the works. They'll each have their own certificate. Have him sign up with his name and last name and write whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32209	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32210	Your Honor, sir, it's one of the options, but we didn't want to go so far as to suggest how the publishers would consume or determine themselves according to that responsibility. So they can, like I said, there's a whole range of options that can be used. It is true that whether you comment under your name or under some nickname that you must be registered in order to be able to comment. Others have a model to comment on with a delay, so before that the editor responsible for the text is also responsible for commenting on those who are relevant to the topic, and then it can't happen that someone who sells fishes, and there are such cases, can appear under some article that writes about this debate. It's just that the editor wouldn't miss it. There's a model where this note and take down, so a whole series of models but it's really on the publishers and we wouldn't prescribe it to decide how they're going to behave in relation to the comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32211	Thank you, Minister. The next debate is the House Movement Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32212	Your Honor, what are the objectives and the real background of this legislative proposal that governs an important area? But it has business features of typical features of Croatian legislative practice as a mixture of nomotechnical papacy, legal and linguistic illiteracy, ambiguity and the Brussels-based directives inspired to be intrusive against the real social needs. Legislative regulation and those relationships that don't need to be regulated at all? What's the word? For example, this is an application in the national legislation of one of the rules of unnecessary and confusing directives of the Brussels Comintern which, in its most recent rural section, responds to the name of the Government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic always finds the most trusted perpetrator. In essence, this legislative proposal is not about technological changes, the extension of media literacy of audiovisual rules to video-sharing platforms, child protection or the availability of media content to disabled people. In reality, let's be clear. The legal establishment of this Brussels directive is exclusively an ideological procedure in the freedom of the media and the presentation of opinions and speeches with the aim of further limiting any criticism of Plenkovic's rule and of his Brussels tutors under the fig leaf of suppressing ideologists, etc. hate speech and the spread of the so-called the false news all contradicts Article 4 of the same Act, which guarantees freedom of expression and full software freedom of electronic media and points out that no provision can be interpreted in a way that gives the right to censorship. So because the ideological censorship of this Act, which Madam Minister actually has been recruiting your child since 2009 from the Government of the Emerald of Jadranka Kosor, and that is why you so crampedly defend him. So the point is abuse and totem use so-called. Political correctness of ideologists, so-called speak of hatred of concepts that neither the Constitution nor the Croatian legislation, which in everyday life turns into an ideological formula for unsanitary people who are selectively reached by self-called politicians and social censors. So the ideological censorship of this Law was released from the bottle of the Minister of Culture Obulen Koržinek in January 2019 when an announcement of the adoption of the Orvelian so-called "Orvellian" was announced at a meeting of the Government. The law on illegal behavior on the Internet, which has remained a dead birth to this day, and in fact with the air conditioning in the not to say, in the recent government's reference to the public debate of the repressive so-called. a protocol on the conduct of a hate crime which will still be discussed in both the assembly and the public. The essence of the ideological background of this law is sublimed except in its spirit and content, in particular in Article 14. Article 2 in which, contrary to the existing provisions of the Constitution and criminal law, the Commission, on the edge of literacy, states that, among other things, selectively selected concepts and phobias are forbidden to encourage and spread such hatred and discrimination on the basis of so-called. I also quote the idea of fascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian regimes. The question arises as to who will judge and based on which competences, which are there in the political and historical sense of fascistism why not national socialist, regardless of the generic relation of fascism and national socialism, there are fundamental differences, and that communist regimes in which time and in which historical context, especially in their bureaucratic stupidity and intellectual stupidity highlight the criminalisation of the legitimate concept of nationalism, which is a multitude of theoretical concepts without which, ultimately, there is no national state. So the national state is reminded directly of the idea of nationalism as one of the key supporting ideologies of modernity which often did not always occur in symbiosis with liberalism and democracy especially in a breakdown of communism, which is a theoretical consensus in social sciences. I ask you, Mrs Obulen, that as a politician in which actual old-age nationalism and social freedom are fundamentally postulate the actions and ideological attitude, please clarify what nationalism and the nationalist regime should be criminalised by the media and what the competence of chat officials and political appointed members of the Council for Electronic Media is, if you will, judges including judges of the Constitutional Court to judge. Perhaps tomorrow you will censor and ban both Matos' essays and his apology of nationalism. Therefore, censorship but even more bureaucratic and intellectually, the mediocritical content of this law contains Article 15th, which stipulates that all audiovisual radio programs and content must contribute for example. Protecting the environment, respecting other people's opinions, educating viewers, entertainment and, among other nonsense and flossules taken from the Miss election, encouraging the public to so-called. international understanding took part in cultural life or in the sense of real life. For example, why the portal that is disputing political theory promotes lesbian activity, philosophy, philatelia, mountaineering, cycling, differential feminism, obesity feminism, gastronomy or theoretical physics should contribute to entertainment and so on. international understanding. So such nonsense has a multitude of what this law does not only from the point of view of freedom, media and thought, but also from a healthy mind dangerous and bizarre. Finally, in the context of the ideological background of this law, we should also point to the penetration that we have already heard of gender ideology, which is a real example of so-called. The Istanbul Convention in which, according to Plenkovic's interpretation, there is, of course, no gender ideology and this through the introduction of the concept of protection, so-called protection. the identity of the family and the key 2 of Article 14 which prescribes the conditions for the prohibition of the portal and 71 in which the promotion of gender ideology is set as a condition for financing public money. Therefore, as regards the censorship background of the law, Article 93(3), we have already heard the responsibility of the publishers and the dragon's fines for comments which, I repeat, gives the parapolitical body the position of the arbitration and the state censor, imposes on the publishers autocensors and possible bankruptcy, the employment of Internet censors that would only deal with the cleaning of the Internet septic pit and the suppression of so-called ‘the Internet’. hate speech and false news according to the model of self-prosecutors facts from the Internet Committee on General Defence and Social Self-protection Pretentiously called Factograf.hr. In conclusion, allow me one quote, and I quote the source of information is in all class societies of the ruling class. They, through means of mass communication, are precisely seeking to communicate with the masses only the information that is desirable from its point of view because the masses under this influence will provide the slightest resistance. It is the deep thoughts of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic from his graduation work, the means of mass communication, published in 1989 in the special fall of the Berlin Wall. What for my then high school generation was the subject of ridicule and despised, unfortunately, a quarter of a century later in the Croatian state turns into a political-median and normative reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32213	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. As I have said many times today, I think it is my duty to react on behalf of the promoters especially when certain thesis and attitudes that do not come from the text that the Government has sent to this House of Commons. We have sent a bill of law with the ambition to listen to comments on what we wrote in that law. It is very difficult to pollomize with the thesis that simply do not come from the text, so I will repeat some of the thesis that has already been highlighted by previous speakers and previous clubs. This law does not deal with any ideological censorship as you say nor restricts anyone's rights and freedoms. This law aims to enable publishers of Croatian electronic media to actually work in a better environment. You pointed out that this law is my child from 2009. I'm really proud to say. At that time, I was a secretary of state and, together with many of my colleagues, worked to bring Croatian legislation into line with EU legislation and to enable our country's membership in that community, which I think has brought us much good. As for Article 14 and paragraph 2 which the distinguished representative, who unfortunately left the assembly, called it sub-intelligent. I consider this an inappropriate qualification for the text of a law which was made in a broad working group, which passed the opinions of different resolutions and which the Government has established, and on behalf of the motionor, I would like to appeal that such qualifications are not used if I am allowed to make such an appeal from this speaker. I have already answered a lot about the issue of allegedly introducing gender ideology, but what was said a few minutes ago from this pay phone to make any of this a condition for funding public money. Perhaps, in the end, although the honourable gentleman left the assembly, which is about always happening when I take the matter into consideration, he probably has some reasons in a very ugly way to talk about one of the former prime ministers and presidents of the Croatian Democratic Community by calling it a political stepmom. I don't know what he'd call another former party president who promoted him and brought him to a political scene in which it took us a long time to bring his negative echo to a short-term rule in our society. Here I am only sorry when such a thesis is placed in the public that I do not have the opportunity to exchange on behalf of the Government and in the name of the promoter a few replicas, but to read a tract like this and then leave the assembly. But that's always the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32215	We have a few replicas. The first one is Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32216	Dear Ministers, according to this bill, do not respect the opinions of the Croatian Journalist Society, publishers, numerous media and lawyers dealing with the rights of journalists. Can you explain to us why that is?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32217	The Ministry of Culture, the media responded immediately to the Croatian Journalist Society's statement and this is publicly available. So, out of a dozen comments from the Croatian Journalist Society, we respected most of it. Those comments, which we did not respect, refer to the way in which the members of the Council for Electronic Media were elected, and I responded in one of the previous comments. HND representatives requested that two members of the Electronic Media Council nominate directly the Croatian Journalist Society and the rest of the Croatian Parliament. This would be one practice that is not in line with our legislation, nor would the Croatian Parliament allow any other regulator or regulatory body to have an option that some association actually directly nominates members. That's what we made a statement about. I hope that the HND will continue to participate in the debates over this law because it concerns a number of their members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32218	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32219	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, Article 76 says that the issue of preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of members of the Council for Electronic Media, which we know to be elected in the Assembly, is subject to special laws governing the prevention of conflicts of interest. Now, since we've been seeing lately that we're reading here both reports and in the media that the court has drastically reduced the powers of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, to abolish a third of their decisions made. I'm interested in what is waiting for us, or members of the council, and what guarantee you won't increase political pressures on council members in view of these decisions we see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32220	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32221	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I don't see any causal link between the court's decisions and the way we've defined the issue of conflict of interest here. We have just referred to the laws, and what laws these laws will be decided by the Parliament, and any violations are decided by the courts. It is certain that both the competent ministry and the government, as well as the Council for Electronic Media, will do as prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32222	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32223	Dear Minister, here's obviously some colleagues don't care about the truth here today, they don't care about the fact because then they'd stay here and listen to what you have to say, and I'm afraid this long in the night with these flying changes they're actually going to be going to go in, spreading pulsism and flossules, you're going to have to repeat what you're saying here more than once. Here after this one I'd say you'd argue in the style of the karst sausage we had the opportunity to hear, I think it would be good to repeat that where the art is constantly mentioned. 14, Art. 71st, Art. 93., you have beautifully elaborated and explained all this, however, it may be good for the public to repeat that a practice at the level of the European Court of Human Rights has already been established, in a way that the publisher, who decides to maintain a comment on the cause of the complaint, assumes full responsibility for this comment, also now in Croatia, therefore, there are judgments in the case-law which have established the responsibility of the reader for the commentary. Therefore, this is not about censorship but about responsibility for what you write or about the content itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32225	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Contrary to the topics presented by individual parliamentary representatives, I am firmly convinced that we proposed to the government and then adopted a draft bill that actually goes in favour and strengthens the confidence of the media. Because if the media adheres to these fundamental principles, then trust in the media will be greater, so I think it is in the best interest and most of all to the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and Croatian society that the fundamental postulate of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination is respected and affirmed through all institutions and through the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32226	The last replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32227	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here's a colleague, unfortunately, he left, honored us with his coming to the Parliament, I think here, I think he's been a few times, I think he's reported only a few times, this meta-language just delights us in the sense that he reminds us of some of the times that we thought we'd forgotten some party cameramen who are talking anyway, so no one understands anything, but in fact he tried to insult everyone and that cult of personality that he cares for himself, he just didn't give him time to stay and at least listen to his colleagues and he just left the battlefield, like it was over his head of this law, no. Everything's wrong with him, and what they keep saying, you take off their comments. We do not remove any comments, increase the responsibility of those portal owners to respond to both what they write and what they are responsible for and what they stand for. A little responsibility isn't something to bother us. And I'm saying, as far as his paths are concerned, he's a man who left a party called his name. Which it is, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32228	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32229	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I agree with you, this is a really important law and we are here to comment, to answer all the questions and any possible ambiguities that arise from the text of the law, and of course I'm sorry, but I said, it's not the first time that they've actually brought out such a thesis and then there's not so much I would say maybe, patience to hear the answer but here, it's all part of parliamentary practice and you've certainly seen our public a lot and we'll see it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32230	Thank you, Minister. The next debate is SDSS Representatives' Club, Honorary Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32231	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. After the speech of the colleagues who spoke before me, I feel smaller than this pay phone. Not because one for the head is higher than me, and the other for 50% more eloquent than me, but so much on the one hand, the relaxation in the talk of such a serious subject, and the other for such captivity with my own words, I haven't heard in this House for a long time. It's about our head. If not in the head of each of us here, then it's about the business we're dealing with, it's about a public business called politics. Which, apart from various, similar, fractured periods, was hardly questioned as is now being brought into question in the last few decades. One colleague says everything's hyper-regulated. Maybe someone's trying to do it but they don't have enough power to do it. These include the EU. These include Croatian legislation. So let's not be afraid of hyper regulation, I'm afraid that doesn't mean anything. One of the reasons why it doesn't mean anything is to create media and public spheres, media channels and public communication participants that aren't actually driven by anything. No rules. No norms. No moral norms. And it poses a danger to the public sphere, it puts it at risk for rational judgment on public matters, it poses a threat to public language and public debate. We need to be aware of that. On the one hand, the grace of technological development brought by a new informative electronic, cognitive revolution in the last half-century, and on the other hand a remarkable chaos of information, participants, ways to approach and discuss if some people in the sphere of politics are raising awareness that they are actually destroying themselves and the work they are doing. One of these is an example of the American election. And now to get back to this, there are so many stories in this law about advertising, about propaganda, and so little really about information and education that it shows actually where we are. It's not the legislator's fault. It's the state of things. What are we defending, what are some colleagues defending? Click bytes that publishers have just to have as many participants as possible on forums or who have looked or read the text, so that they can sell to advertisers then that they are read and watched, is that a criterion? I'm sure he didn't. Did it measure the fact that some of our colleagues here say a strong feeling national is much more important than a strong state and a functional state? And we know such a strong national feeling, and behind that rough boot and some have shown it when they had the chance and that's what they should be told. But let's get back to what's in this law. Your Honor, Madam Minister, 11th century 11th or 12th which speaks of public dialogue, public dialogue is not enough, we need to talk about public debate, public debate it is necessary, it is important to get to what every public needs for every society to debate, debate. Art. 15th century 5. Understanding for national minorities, so we don't have to have understanding for national minorities and not everything to understand, not everyone has to understand me as a member of a national minority or a member of any other kind of minority, but the basic respect and equality that arises from the Constitution and the law, that is. Tolerance, yes, and whether or not it will understand me, I'm not sure how much we understand each other, no matter what we speak in one language when we seem to speak. Art. In 37, why is advertising and propaganda possible in children’s shows that last longer than 30 minutes? Why should children protect it from the young? Why must children be subject to consumerism and exploitation in this way? I won't question that we won't interrupt religious rituals with commercials, but we can interrupt children's shows. Why? Children must be protected from as much as possible. Art. 71st, I think that the Pluralism Fund should serve to develop public awareness of the inadmissibility of anti-Semitism, racism and grandeur of what has been here several, and there are words in the law, and that means the expanse of ideas and ideology that have left behind criminal clues. And there's one more thing I want to say, some colleagues here seem to mind having gender equality, I don't mind, I know why, but that's what I said when we talked about it, but it bothers me that there's no social and economic equality. We must be as sensitive as society and in the media to the fact that social and economic inequality is growing in our society, it has grown rapidly over the last 30 years and it bothers most of our people and the awareness of it must be encouraged in the media. And when someone was talking about dignity, I think colleague Bencic, I agree with her that politicians should include me as one of us here, our dignity has been treated differently, but the dignity that appears in "Love is in the country" in "Big Brother" about this kind of dignity I want to talk about, about people who exploit it in the most cruel way, their bodies, their poverty, their narcissism, their socialism by means of the media, about that I want to talk about as about destroying human dignity as well as those who view it as a serious audiovisual program or service, and for which some of our domestic television operators say, so we can produce domestic things, are never domestic things but something that came from outside. In the end, local media should be free of pressure from either the economic sphere, whether from political or not, except the pluralism fund. I think you also need a media independence fund to have in some way. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32232	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32233	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, in this proposal of the Law on Electronic Media, there are a number of illogicalities and bad solutions to the current problems resulting from unquality regulation of the problem in electronic media. A law that should ensure a quality balance between allowing freedom of speech and preventing hate speech in this proposal does not do so at all. The dynamics of media development since 2003 when the current Electronic Media Act was originally adopted are not accompanied by changes in the legal frameworks or are now trying to correct it. In order to valorise the importance of the intensity of the hate speech problem, I would just like to remind my colleagues that more than 100,000 posts containing hate speech on web portals and Facebook social network have been recorded in the period from 2013 to 2019. Hate speech is a problem at global level, especially at a time of developed technology that provides more opportunities to spread and promote hate and discrimination. The factor that has further facilitated the spread of hate is the emergence and popularity of social networks. The possibility of anonymity on social networks gives individuals a sense of greater power, and the security is that their identity will remain hidden and thus avoid possible consequences so that they are encouraged by the above-mentioned often broader hatred and discrimination through social networks and internet portals. I quote lawyer Vanju Juric, who often deals with court cases that are subject to hate speech. The hate speech as a phenomenon is not based on radicalization in society. I think a lot more must be taken care of that hate speech is a consequence, not a cause. This is due to the general social climate, frustrations that have accumulated for years, possibly poverty, lack of education, etc. One of the reasons is so-called. fake news, they are one of the main causes of hate speech, and they are hardly addressed in this law, and that is even the problem that the EU has raised as one of the key problems in society as a whole, not just in the media. Not too much political attention, but also legislative rhetoric is dedicated to a phenomenon called fake news. However, if we take a closer look at what is actually fake news, we will see that it is political or military propaganda, commercialism and gossip, corporate PR statements packaged as news or staged organized actions presented as authentic reality. In the context of the crisis, the media is, of course, moving advertising revenues from media houses to digital corporations such as Google and Facebook that have led to a historic loss of job for journalists to significantly accelerate their work and make their working conditions worse. And these are exactly the questions that the legislator of this law doesn't deal with at all. If one major issue of media policy should be raised, then the question is how to finance quality, professional journalism that will balance false news. This issue does not burden Minister Obuljen, according to at least this proposal and does not surprise the conclusions of those who claim that Plenkovic's government is in fact responding to this crisis of Croatian media and journalism. The HDZ managed to draw up a proposal that is at the same time harmful to the media by ignoring their problems and allowing lawsuits with dragon sentences and the right to freedom of speech, which is a sort of success, while in no way solving the problem of hate speech in public space. The repressive, declarative censorship of electronic media in the way the proponent imagined it would not contribute to the reduction of hate speech, but, unfortunately, apart from a few cancellations, he would move hate speech from the web portal to social networks. The result of this law is obviously imagined in principle by my troubles to move on to another, instead of finding a solution that solves the problem. They do not respect the opinions of the Croatian Journalist Society, publishers, numerous media and lawyers dealing with the rights of journalists, but they are being passed through the Parliamentary Committee on Information, Information and Media and directed to further procedure. In addition to the principle of problems in the adoption of these amendments to the law, there are a number of concrete issues for which we will certainly look for answers in the debate. Thus, the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media does not increase, although the needs for financing quality journalism have increased. We also find a way to elect a council for electronic media as an electronic media regulator that should be independent, but is actually directly dependent on the government. The HDZ is more important to control the Council for Electronic Media than adequate implementation of their tasks and objectives. A reduction of the requirements for the production of a domestic information programme for local and regional preferences and televisions is prescribed after they have already received broadcasting concessions. The statutes of electronic media are to prescribe the autonomy of editors and the participation of journalists in their election. Furthermore, the poor practice of advertising the authorities of the state administration and public companies on local radios, televisions and portals continues. The plan allocation of frequencies for universities, schools and associations that encourage the development of non-profit media communities is missed. The requirements of impartiality are extended to all media, can be misused to limit freedom of speech. It is also problematic to formulate a provision that is solely responsible for readers' comments even though it is transferred to portals without clear criminal sanctions. In addition, the dispute remains a good part of the terminology. Invisible provisions on preventing media concentration, lack of definition of own production, public interest, media activity, lack of sound radio spectrum management policy and many others to be warned about in further discussion. Although we are led to declare ourselves a tourist destination, this legal proposal limits content in a foreign language rather than commit the media to inform tourists who visit us about all the circumstances and facts important to their stay in our country. Croatia is one of the few countries that does not carry out systematic civic education and education and has no development vision and clearly defined plan. How this content is based on the specific values of democracy and the protection of human rights and freedoms and followed by a specific method of participatory teaching and experience to integrate quality into the existing or reform-modified education system. As responsible individuals, we should systematically identify, reflect and address future problems in society, which would certainly be achieved by introducing civic education in schools to prevent hate speech. Civil education and education are one of the fundamental pillars of democratic society. The lack of this important and effective element of social development raises the question of democracy itself and its principles. Today’s society is seeking answers to the new needs it faces. Citizens' confidence in institutions, youth and adults' lack of interest in social political processes, mass migration and the growth of plural societies, globalisation, international and interethnic intolerance, increasing violence, terrorism and the threat of global peace. The very statement by Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek that she expects a dynamic debate in the parliament about the government's belief in the quality of the proposed law. Following the above mentioned SDP club in the Croatian Parliament, it will insist that this proposal for a law on electronic media does not go into the form in which it is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32234	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, of course, I'm expecting a hearing and of course I believe we've sent a good legal text, otherwise we wouldn't have prepared it. I'm going to try to make a quick reference, although you've cited different points of the law more or less, but you haven't listed any of these points as a proposal, but you've only taxed very quickly through 30 topics and said that none of them are well solved. As far as hate speech is concerned, you've linked it to fake news. That's a big difference. So, the problem of the fake news or the fake news is something that is primarily addressed by encouraging media literacy, so strengthening the resilience of every citizen to recognize such phenomena and only in situations where false news threatens national security, constitutional order, etc. Then something like that would be sanctioned. You mention the financing of professional journalism. Just last year, our government first provided funds for professional journalism. It doesn't have to be prescribed by law. So there are instruments for that. You joined colleagues who had previously talked about the repressive sanctioning of electronic media. It would have been good if you'd pointed out where you found that repressive sanctioning of electronic media since it's not in this proposal. The penalties are the same as they were if the governments of Ivica Racan and Mr Vujic, or Vice-President Zeljka Antunović, who then proposed the law and who were actually the first to pass a complete package of media laws that is largely still in force. You said you didn't respect the opinion of HND and other stakeholders. It's just not true. Most of the HND's comments were adopted. I referred to myself earlier who didn't. As for the disputed way of electing a council that HDZ is more important to control, this election of the council has not changed either during HDZ or during your SDP of the Government. We have chosen council members to believe in good faith and based on their competences and your government and our government. Nothing has changed here, and I think it's a duty for all of us to encourage the very best individuals to enter those councils. You said there were reductions in the information program. That's not true. They shall be coordinated with the areas of concessions. You mentioned the media statutes. They are not governed by this law, but by the Media Act, which was planned for the fourth quarter of this year. I don't know what a frequency plan would be, since we know that there are limits in radio spectrum and limited availability of concentrations. However, there is also the development of Internet radios. It is not true to limit content in a foreign language. On the contrary. For our tourists, there are a number of restrictions. Allow me to refer briefly and to the presentation of Pupovac MPs in particular and the issue of Article 11 of certain proposals on which I thank the public dialogue or public debate. I think a good proposal to amend the wording of Article 15(5) rather than encourage understanding to encourage tolerance. As far as advertising in children's programs is concerned, it's something regulated by the directive. It is therefore considered that up to 30 minutes is some period that should not be proposed, and of course we will consider all the comments concerning the improvement of the criteria related to the Pluralism Facility. At this point, there were not some at the public hearing, as much as I recall comments about the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32236	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic. Stay, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32237	So the debate on this law has become increasingly debated as such, on issues that we can ask and answers that we can expect, and that they are clear, concrete, unequivocally unequivocal that we are not hiding behind the previous law or behind some directives. If I ask you a very specific question, which means a lot of damage to environmental protection, is it a thrown paper on the road or is it a burning Yakushevac? It is a provision regarding the way electronic media should act and I cannot get a concrete answer then we have a problem, and what a problem the media has. Or to come to other topics in art. 93, for the protection of minors. Which is a moral damage to minors, which is particularly immoral and who is the one who will judge it, to get away from this story of hate speech. Many concepts are clouded, and we do not get the answer but hide behind the directive. So what if the directive says jump off the bridge we'll jump off the bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32238	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32239	Your Honor, Madam Representative. When the directives are formulated and we, as representatives of the Republic of Croatia, are involved and an expression is found that will be the most impoverished to be transposed into different laws. It should be understood that media laws largely refer to certain principles, but very precise practices are not prescribed, and that is one specific instrument of media laws unlike some other laws. I haven't noticed so far that there have been some difficulties with these expressions, but of course, like your previous speaker, Pupovac, if you have any suggestions for any better formulation, so I understand this first reading, we will listen and consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32240	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32241	Your Honors Minister. ... Here is the Index hr., Jutarnji list, Vecernji list you are always logged through the social network via Facebook. [[Specially enabled.]] So is there a Facebook match or does it match any of those portals that I just listed or, of course, all the other portals?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32242	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32243	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. If you have published a comment under your name so you can know who you are gossiping about, if you cannot determine who is likely to answer the publisher. It doesn't matter if you have your comment, let's imagine classical media, sent a letter, fax, or brought it personally into a suitcase at the entrance to a medium, which is irrelevant, the question is what it says. So, did you generate it through Facebook or any other tool to find that content on that page that's not the measure of this law, and this law, as I said, does not regulate social networks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32244	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32245	Your Honors Minister. As I said in this law, there are a series of illogicalities and bad solutions. You called me, too, that in my presentation, I did not offer solutions but only criticized them. Unfortunately, these 10 minutes are not enough for me to offer solutions, and as I said in my presentation of the SDP club, it will certainly lead to a quality debate and offer solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32246	Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32247	Thank you. I just said you're just instructions on the subject, and you've actually decided that you won't say what you really think about it, so I refer to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32248	The next replica is the respected representative of Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32249	So, dear Minister, dear colleagues. I answered because I believe that hate speech should be demystified. It has nothing to do with slander, defamation, debauchery, ridicule, it has nothing to do with satir or the values of courts, hate speech is clearly defined, and I don't know why it's a question of what it is. So we're like a country really in trouble if MPs at HS don't know what hate speech is, which is an invitation to violence and how to recognize these things. Unfortunately, many MPs have shown their inability to distinguish normal political speech, normal criticism from calling for violence and hatred.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32250	The reply of the esteemed Minister Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32251	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Well, that's what I mean to all of us, and that's why every time we observe this law or any other legal solution that concerns the media, we need to talk parallelly about media literacy, and that's one of the reasons why it's been voluntaryly introduced into the law so far, because only by teaching our citizens to actually separate what's right from what's wrong, to recognize inappropriate content, to recognize hate speech in any form and not to share it anymore, we'll just do the media, but also society in general better and more tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32252	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32253	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, around these frequent criticisms that the government is hiding behind some European directives, perhaps one technical but it seems important to me that these European directives are a single legislative act, so there are no suggestions, there is no, of course, when the law is passed here, it may be within certain parameters to choose which way but these parameters have been set and they have passed one democratic procedure, so the European Parliament voted them, the national parliament, so the Croatian Parliament and participate in this, what cannot be cared for by what is happening in European institutions, such an act is being passed, and then it is said, e the government is hiding behind it and we have had the opportunity to participate and form that act, of course, and during that process, the Croatian Parliament could also come forward if it wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32254	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32255	Thank you, Mr. Representative. This is what we talked about today and this morning in the case of the Copyright Directive, we are talking about and now, we have been very actively involved and we have participated in the creation of a directive fighting for all those provisions that we thought were important for Croatian publishers and for Croatian media space, and therefore we agree with you, the creation of common European rules, we need to understand as actually one common contribution to making the entire European space better regulated for the benefit of citizens and, of course, to promote the values behind which Europe stands, and that is what is particularly visible and which is recognised in media laws and related to independence, pluralism of the media, free expression and all the values we share.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32256	Thank you very much. We are now moving on with representatives' clubs, so on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the Honorable Representative Darko Klasic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32257	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS will in principle support the proposal for a new Law on Electronic Media and, above all, because the new law adopts European standards and lays down EU law relating to the features of media content and advertising in the media. In this regard, we particularly welcome the legal introduction of a European standard relating to the transparency of media ownership that is directly linked to freedom of expression in the Republic of Croatia, which is the basis for a democratic system where information in the ownership structure of media service providers also enables users to develop a reasoned opinion on media content and strengthen active citizenship without which there is no open and free society. We are also pleased with the legislative change which, in accordance with European legislation, provides for a ban on content that encourages violence or hatred against certain groups or terrorism, this is achieved by the proposed Article 14 of the new law, which has been repeatedly discussed today, but in line with the previous discussions that I have heard here, I assess the particularly important normation of freedom but also the responsibilities of the media, it is the concept of freedom in the original liberal philosophy which is positive and not negative. This means freedom for something concrete, true and objective reporting, reporting based on verified information, presenting and solving social values and goals, then there is full access to information, protection of minors, accessibility of media content for children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities and not freedom from something. It's important in all actually liberal philosophies emphasized. This is particularly important in today's context, and here is what has been discussed very much here, marked by discussions in which everyone's freedom of the media is very aggressively sought and imposed by which virtually everything is allowed and for nothing is very often lost from the water that is powerfully manifested only in relation to the state and individual but also within different areas of the public and private sphere. It also relates to the creation of so-called The false news we've heard here, where citizens can't tell what's true and what's not. The power in terms of information and media content also in this regard in which the strong role of the state in the protection of individual autonomy and the creation of institutional preconditions for the successful reproduction of individualism in society is sought. In this regard, I would also like to assess that it is in line with European standards, Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 93 paragraph 3 of the new law introduces the responsibility of the electronic publication provider for the overall content published in the electronic publication including the content generated by the users, however, I do not understand how the new law regulates the responsibility of editors, the publication providers on social media, since the purpose of adoption is to amend and supplement Directive 2018/1808, which extends certain audiovisual rules to video content sharing platforms and audiovisual content shared on certain social media services. First of all, it is important that the new law clearly define that area of social media platforms in terms of liability for media content published on these platforms. Namely, in exchange platform services they see the records, according to the mentioned European standards, audiovisual content, which is increasingly accessible to the general public and especially young. This also applies to social media services that have become an important means of sharing information and entertainment and education, including by ensuring access to programmes and videos generated by users themselves. These social media services should be included in the scope of the existing regulation relating to audiovisual content as they compete with the same audience and income as audiovisual media services. You know for a fact that it's a very widespread business on the Internet today. In addition, they also have a significant impact in terms of facilitating the user's ability to shape and influence the opinion of other users, so in order to protect minors from harmful content, all citizens from fostering hate, violence and terrorism, and services should also be regulated by a new law. HSLS also joins the position of the Croatian Journalist Society in relation to art. 30 of the new law, we believe that the state in principle has the right to concession or authorisation to allow the start of work of a certain media entrepreneur if it is limited communication channels, so it is justified that the use of these communication channels is allowed for those offering the best software content, which was related to radio-television at a time when the earth's transmission was the only communication channel, but we believe it is not justified that the state approves, or does not approve the creation of a new media entrepreneur if the communication channel, satellite, cable or internet has more than potential media content manufacturers. In this case, these electronic media should be equally subject to the rule of full freedom of establishment and start of work, as has long been the case with regard to the printed media. The State, of course, can and should prescribe the obligation to report, register and similar administrative actions, but they should by no means have a significant impact on the authorisation to work. In this respect, it should retain the Institute of Land Transfer concessions, while all other transfers should be fully free and have equal conditions and opportunities. Finally, we support the proposal for a new Law on Electronic Media, but we think it would be good to improve it in terms of the previously mentioned constructive proposals in order to achieve effectively the highlighted objectives which are intended to be achieved by the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32258	Thank you very much. Since we're already about 3.5, four hours out of air, now we're going to take a break up to 20 and 40, and I'm asking you to clear the hall well. It's 20:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.40 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32260	I thank the chairman. Dearly beloved, there are few of us left after this break. So the new e-media law is. We heard why he needed it. Because it was adopted as early as 2009, outdated, it needed to be brought into line with the development of new media technologies, etc. and the Croatian legislation was to be brought into line with European legislation or with a European directive relating to audiovisual media services. I will discuss several articles here on the famous article 93, paragraph 3, of Articles 16 and 25. Article 93, we have already heard a lot about it, or the most controversial of its items, which says: “The electronic publication provider is responsible for the entire content published on an electronic publication including the content generated by the users.” So, the famous provision concerning readers' comments, early cancer of all portals, would say the waste of hate speech, spreading lies. The hate speech should be contained in any case. The problem, however, is that it is not sufficiently precise and it is also necessary to find a balance between curbing hate speech and freedom of expression. For media freedoms and in general freedom of expression, it is very bad that the law prescribes that publishers are generally and priors are responsible for the overall content generated by users. The fact is that it is impossible in real time to control all the content published by users. That is why there are already mechanisms to report the illicit content that the media are already handling. There is a possibility under this law that some internet media will be punished here are fines from 100,000 to millions of kunas due to comments under an article. That would naturally destroy a series of news portals, online media that certainly cannot pay such a punishment. So when it comes to censorship, it was actually thought of using these penalties for comments and articles in some way being thought to open up the possibility and censorship. The minister mentioned earlier if the comment under her own name is likely you will answer for yourself, if not the publisher. However, it is not clear from such a defined article and in particular from this provision. The responsibility of commentaries in certain cases has existed so far, and decisions have already been made by the European Court of Human Rights and our Constitutional Court. However, both courts have found that such liability exists if certain conditions are met, and not always, regardless of any circumstances. The Law on Electronic Media goes against decisions and the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court. It is unclearly left behind, perhaps I do not know perhaps and deliberately so for what kind of content the publisher is responsible for as well as at which point he becomes responsible. Is he responsible right now? Is he responsible at the very moment when a third person publishes a comment or after 24 hours, 5 days, a week, a month? Is it also responsible when a user publishes a factual claim or a potentially offensive opinion of a third party? Is the publisher obliged, after learning about the content of such a comment, to enter into an examination of the accuracy and justification of an opinion, or is it obliged to automatically erase any comment that one can interpret as harmful? I say as defined this article is not clear, and this is how it's committed to really great manipulations. So where and when does the publisher's responsibility begin? We see if when an affair under the text is published there are comments about other additional affairs of these people, so if the publisher is obliged to check every such comment, remove the comment and then return it after checking etc. Oh, yeah? Especially how to react all of a sudden when 200 comments appear, should the entire army of some administrators? I know there are various solutions. You have today's artificial intelligence that can help with that. If not today, it will help in a few years even better, etc. However, the media here often do not know when a comment has been made. In some texts I said there were several hundred and more comments. Or, let's say, in politically important moments, the type of election when some parties specifically hire the so-called big ones. your Internet armies that spread lies by comments troll. Even the HDZ has one verdict when the Internet brigade is so-called. HDZ convicted of tax evasion for marketing services done for HDZ during the 2015 parliamentary elections campaign. It is therefore apparent that this provision will be used for the purpose of financial punishment of the media although the media has not published this content and does not know for a fact that it has been published. It is not only about the prospect of giving very high criminal penalties, but also about the fact that different persons will also be able to benefit from that provision in litigation against publishers as a basis for paying compensation for damages. The result will also likely be that publishers will simply have to abolish comments that are bad for freedom of expression. Therefore, the possibility of people participating in a debate on a socially important topic will be abolished because the state is actually unable to find a way to sanction responsible individuals. Therefore, if the state wants to deal seriously with the problem of suppressing hate speech and this is cited as the reason for the introduction of this provision, it is necessary to find a way to regulate hate speech in a way that will allow the processing of the perpetrators themselves, which is not the case at this time. Now in Art. 16. that defines how the media will report on certain topics. Thus, this article in some ways impairs or tends to prescribe what is considered to be illegal or prohibited, so the law can prescribe but not more than that, in particular not to enter certain issues of editorial policy. The bill is prescribed here that the media must meet the criteria that equally represent different approaches and opinions, that the news must be impartial and the comments must be easily recognizable. For non-compliance with these principles, serious fines have again been prescribed although it is actually unimaginable for anyone to explain in any way how they will approach a particular subject, we have already heard here, why there should be no media that have the right to be biased in a particular subject, to have a position that someone may consider biased, to have the right and to take a certain side in relation to an event, especially when it comes to public policies. So, this one. 16 should be completely deleted. Art. 25. Likewise, the problem of protecting the dignity of politicians, a controversial and unclear provision which explicitly prohibits media contributions from insulting man's dignity. We are talking about some critical contributions that are being criticised or problematicd, for example. One of us politicians, the officials, in some affair in which he is involved, other events of public interest, therefore allowed our laws, international laws that actually protection of dignity is not an absolute right but subject to restrictions. Therefore, although this provision is contrary to both our laws and practices of the highest courts, the article gives power to the Council for Electronic Media to decide on a temporary or permanent confiscation of concession or authorisation to the media service provider if it finds that it has violated this provision. So this law if we adopt it this way, if this one, especially this one. In 93, we don't define it any clearer, it's subject to great manipulations, and instead of actually preventing hate speech that will move from electronic media to social networks, we've actually denied people for comments and freedom of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32261	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. She would briefly refer to some of the thesis presented, simply not to remain in public space, that we did not answer. As far as 93 is concerned, I really don't see how anyone could interpret that law would sanction an offensive opinion or the conduct of certain affairs, so it's very clear what this article wants to sanction, I will repeat the issue of violations of the Penal Code and the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination. And I don't know how you're saying that there would be damages because these are acts in accordance with the criminal law and not civil law or some criminal procedure, so that decision can only be brought by the court and we know what is available when it comes to criminal law. I would disagree if it were said that the state was unable to sanction hate speech, so the state reached for legal solutions. The hate speech is not something that can only be sanctioned by any provision of any law, whether from the domain of media legislation, this law may still be among the last in line, whether criminal or not, that other parts of the public system. Addressing the problem of hate speech includes sanctions as well as media literacy and investment in education, and that is the function of everyone, and that is the function of us who are public figures and education systems and everyone who performs in the public, so it must also be contributed to the media, so it would not agree with the fact that some imaginary state is not able to sanction it, so this is why it is prescribed. As far as art is concerned. 16, for Art. 16. No punishments are provided, so read neither the law, read the last part of the law, so for art. There's no punishment, there's only principles. And so these are some basics, art. The 15th and 16th fundamental principles and postulates, we're open, we said so in a public debate, if we're going to look for some better expressions, but I don't think it would be good if one important media law were left without any principles and that it was really just technically prescribed on advertising or other topics. With regard to Art. 25. and the provision of insulting man's dignity, so I would point out that in the Parliament when discussing members of the Council for Electronic Media, people with experience, experts, lawyers, there were media experts, and I don't think that, in a way that they should be sanctioned, e.g. You said, some who criticise politicians, it is not the intensity of this article, it is clear that the intensity of this article is insulting the dignity of man, any individual, any citizen, we politicians are certainly the last in line, and we are the ones who are certainly the most able and we need by function or by what we are dealing with, endure, but the question of insulting man's dignity is some achievement of the standard, that provision has been in law all this time, has never been misused, has never been questioned, and I think we should stay and that we should not erase a provision that calls for no human dignity to be offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32263	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32264	Thank you. I'm going to trouble this article again. 93, that provision 3, I say that when you read this section 3 in which it says, is, is, that the publication provider is responsible for the entire content and content generated by the users, does not write the content generated by the users, which, by this all, is hate speech, right? What you'd say, so this is something you can call someone in any case when they're making any kind of comment, or he doesn't like it, or so he says, okay, the owner of the portal is responsible and he's making a complaint or an objection to the owner of the portal, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32265	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this one. 23, and in particular chapter 3 should be read complementarily with the Media Act. So the publisher writes, it is not said whether it is the owner or editor, and the Media Act prescribes responsibility for the entire content of the media, so there is something that comes from the Media Act and is not a newspaper of this law and does not apply, this should be read in the order that they are, so in Article 2 it is precisely attributed to what the sanctions would apply, especially because that Article 2 is subject to possible penalties. So this, this fact that it calls for the full content of the publication, should be read complementaryly with responsibility for the overall content of any media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32267	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Ivanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32268	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the HS, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable MPs and MPs. There are not many of us left, but we have something to say about a law that is very, very important, not only for media houses but also very important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps a few statistics before I say anything, 26 television publishers broadcasting 29 programs, 138 radio publishers broadcasting 149 programs, while the number of providers of electronic publications is 276 with 336 electronic publications. It also operates 59 media service providers that broadcast via satellite, cable and internet from 96 programs and 12 service providers on request with 14 services. So a lot of media activity in the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly good, if we compare it to something that was 15 years ago, 20 or 30 years ago, I think that Croatia is absolutely independent in this regard, when it comes to the media. What is important to begin with is also said, the Law on Electronic Media was adopted in 2009 and has not changed significantly since then, while everything else has changed very much in space. I must say, I was truly afraid, when I listened to some debates by some of the various MPs here at HS as if HDZ was preparing some kind of special police force to arrest and beat up journalists because they're writing against HDZ, they're writing against politicians. That's not good. We can't send such messages anywhere, who read the law from the first to the last article certainly didn't find a single letter that points to what some MPs are about, and I would say very consciously and of course want to do damage to both the legislator and the minister, even to all of us who have something to say and I think it goes in favor of the citizens of the Republic, and it also goes in favour of media houses. There are several articles about which a bile debate has been conducted here and the minister has indeed repeated it several times and it is good that she has done it every time because if two or three times a lie is spoken and does not respond to it, then a myth is created that it is absolutely true. Here, I'll try a few articles that I think are very, very important for media houses. There is a lot of talk about how public enterprises, ministries, part of our public money mostly spend on large media houses, such as HRT and the other two commercial televisions in the Republic of Croatia. This new law says that 15% of these funds are not small, they must be transferred to the small ones. So small radio stations, small platforms, small and regional televisions that will be very useful to them because being honest today has a radio, having a television isn't even that simple. These are very expensive toys that have their price. There's also a lot of noise and shouting about how local sheriffs always furniture up some stories, and they usually assign some of their acquaintances, space supporters, or pay them a place to advertise. And this law clearly states that everything a local, regional self-government wants to publish must be put on a public tender. Isn't that good? I think that's more than good and more than transparent. And I think we need to encourage this law to make that clear. We all advocate that we have more Croatian in Croatia, so we ask trade chains to sell domestic products in these trade chains. This law says that 5% of the revenues of a television network despite RTL, NOVA, 5% of that revenue must go to independent Croatian producers. Well, isn't that good? So our production will have a chance to live and survive, and that will not do them any harm. After all, they do so in some other countries, and they have no problem with the 5% being separated, and here they are required to give a two-year delay and then slowly introduce the whole story. I think there's been a debate about something that might be causing some kind of fight. But in fact, when it comes to reading too much, clearly and reasonably, that article in 93 does not speak for anything about what many MPs have been talking about here. Here there was a Facebook that had nothing to do with Twitter, which had nothing to do with this law, and it's not good to scare people in this way as some MPs wanted to do. There's been a lot of riots in the last 5, 10 and 15 years. We didn't know who the owners of television in Croatia were. This law now says that there must be a clearly highlighted ownership structure, that we need to know who people, corporations or anything else behind all the electronic media are, and I think that's more than good. I'd say it's one big graduation and the success of this law. The minister pointed out several times, and we too have passed on the Media Committee. This is the first reading of the law, and I think that this listening was both parliamentary representatives and interested Croatian public, and that probably one part of these remarks that have been made here and in the Croatian Parliament and in general in the public debate will be implemented in a law that will be implemented here in the second reading and as such likely to be accepted. What I used to worry about, and I had a chance to see that some institutions that represent themselves as verticals when it comes to media promotion, in general when it comes to media, journalism, professions say one thing first, and then very quickly pull it back and say that maybe it's not good and that's not good. I believe in a group that was working on making this law, that it wants to do the best and what maybe finally here I want to apostrophe the Ministry of Media Law. This isn't the Media Act. The whole law is being prepared to talk about the media, which will also be part of the debate here in the Croatian Parliament. And I am sure that in Croatia no law, no law, no law on electronic media, no new media law will reduce any freedom. I don't know which politician would be able to make a law that would forbid journalists from speaking, that there must be a certain responsibility absolutely yes. That we must not encourage and support hate speech absolutely yes. How this will be resolved by legal provisions requires solutions. I think that the best ones that have already been applied in Europe will be applied here. And so I'm sure we'll finally have a good e-media law and finally a new Media Act. And here again I want to apostrophe that as a policy which currently has responsibility for the management of the Croatian state, which is the Croatian Democratic Community has no idea what many parliamentary representatives here have talked about first and foremost to do us political harm. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept the amendments to this law and in the second reading we will certainly have what we have through the board and through the debate here in the Croatian Parliament wanted to get everyone who cares about independent journalism and freedom of the Croatian media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32269	Thank you very much. We will now move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One general place in Croatian politics is when it comes to how we write laws. The phrase that the waist should have the main word. It is certainly a good principle in the sense that we need to present the state of affairs, to direct us to what is really important. However, the profession is only one half of writing good laws. In addition to the profession, politics is needed. Politicians and politicians are there to interpret the facts and make decisions on how and in what direction the laws will go, how they will address the problem. If you'll let me make a little joke in this late hour and paraphrasing Kant, I'd say that in that context, politics without the profession is blind, and the profession without politics is empty. Tonight I had the chance to hear more than enough arguments in favor of my thesis. One of the central themes tonight was hate speech, so one language phenomenon. In the event that I am a linguist, and linguistics is a language science if there are those who don't know it, who has been elected to this House, it puts me in a position to talk about this topic both from the position of the profession and from the position of politics. Don't worry, my esteemed colleague and colleagues, this debate will not be a lecture from linguistics. Yet as a linguist, I feel obliged to contribute to this debate by hopefully clearing up some of the concerns about what hate speech is and what its essential features are. During a debate that was not at all justified at all times, two political positions appeared. A small part of a colleague feels that freedom of speech should be absolute, and then hate speech should not even be sanctioned. Most colleagues and colleagues, and I consider myself to be free of speech not free of hate speech. And the bill we're discussing reflects this latter position. First of all, you need to know that language and speech does not exist in some airless space, virtual and separate from the set in which we live. When we speak, we do so with the aim of action. Our words can be, can be established, so we can check whether something is true or not, and may also be an action that has very real effects and consequences. The hate speech belongs to this second category. Here's one possible definition. A hate speech is a speech act whose purpose and purpose is to dehumanize a group or individual and thus make a legitimate target of violence. There are other elements that matter. I'll just list some of them. It's about who's talking and how much power he has. Folkly speaking, it's not only about what's said, it's about who's saying it. The context as well as the intention of the speaker is important. Tonight we talked a little bit about the importance of the distinction between satire and hate speech, so I'm not going to make any particular argument. It's about the message itself. It can be contained in words spoken or written, and can also be contained in another kind of sign, for example in the tags of Nazi military troops or in the markings of their Quislin allies, which are regularly the subject of public debates in Croatia. There may be different definitions of hate speech, of course. Science should not expect absolute truths, for science does not deal with religion anyway. Science can offer us a description of phenomena and its effects based on observed and verified scientific methods. Hate speech should be regulated because it is harmful to society, groups and individuals. If anyone suspects to visit... Or Jasenovac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The effects of hate speech there are very well documented. I think we're all responsible for suppressing hate speech, and so are the publishers. If someone writes on my house killing a Serb, I'm not responsible for that act, but if I don't remove such a message, I'm being held accountable. I want to say this, too. I don't think we need a battalion of linguists and linguists well-intentioned in speech theory to pass this law. I hope that understanding will be enough for you and what I've put forward in this debate. If it doesn't, I'd be happy to give a more detailed explanation. However, counterpart Bencic spoke about the practice of the European Court. And it can serve us as some kind of guide. At the very end one... The experience of life in Croatia teaches us that there are no laws that cannot be broken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I consider very justified fears of censorship as well as fears of publishers that this law might be misused if they are not obedient to the authorities, any. That's why the state needs to help them implement this law. We have smart algorithms that can help modulate unwanted content That doesn't have to be done manually today. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32271	Thank you. We have two replicas. She is the first respected representative of Selak-Raspudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32272	Dear fellow Glavasevići, I think it is useful to talk from the perspective of linguistics especially sociolinguistics because we are all really struggling with the term hate speech and because even hate today is and can be used as some ideological pendrek. So I want you to go back to this part that you just touched, which in Germany proved to be the biggest problem when at the time it was about social networks and trying to eliminate hate speech, which is the ratio of satire and hate speech. Can we even talk within the framework of a standard of hate speech that has been decontextualized and if we put an exclusive emphasis on the elimination of hate speech, will we lose different levels of humor from public space?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32273	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32274	Thank you for your comment, colleague Selak-Raspudic. It reflects, of course, your philosophical background that I appreciate. I'd say it's like this. Of course it's not possible to decontextualize hate speech, it belongs to some context. I think we're talking about it here, I mean every time we regulate a part of something has to be lost. But the question is, are we okay? to lose something that may not be much to get the safety of citizens and citizens in order to get a more orderly state than the one we currently have. And I wanted to say more that we need to talk to the publishers and that the minister and the ministry need to agree with them what they need first of all to protect themselves from abuse by the state, but to make it easier for them to make what we want them to expect. So on that sort of, in that negotiation process should we find her... That place where everyone's more or less happy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32275	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32276	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear colleague Glavasevic. You've started a topic that's actually been debated one way or another all the time, and that's hate speech. And that one sensitive line and a thin line that when you overstep or a little different interpretation, you can go all wrong together. But what is the essence of everything that we write the laws for? Because now that we're here at the assembly in the late evening hours to discuss or write with a desire to be better, to be more successful, that people who have to use it, to make it simpler, not to complicate their lives, I have a feeling, often, when discussions are conducted, like things are done on purpose to make life complicated, and the one to whom it will apply, he's least important, we don't ask him, he's out there somewhere, so when he is, he will be. This is one of those laws that requires conversation, conversation, conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32277	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32278	Thank you, too, for commenting constructively, colleague Mrak-Taritash. Yes, of course we write laws for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They chose us, they entrusted us with the mandate, and they put trust in us to work for them. It should certainly underline this last message that you gave at the end of the day and that I would like to repeat to the minister once again, which is that we really need to talk. For two reasons, because fears of censorship and fears of abuse by the state, I don't think we should, that we shouldn't shake hands on them. I say the experience of life in Croatia teaches us that. And not only in Croatia, it was elsewhere, and I think that the contribution of everyone in this debate or at least most people in this debate was a bona fide and that even such comments were very important, but that does not mean that this phenomenon should not be regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32279	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32280	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is absolutely clear to us now that the main issue that has developed in this debate over this law is the attitude of publishers, censorship, protection of citizens and some fundamental values that we should not cross over. Since I'm the president of a party called the Civil-Liberal Union, so in his name he has a liberal, we certainly have a need, no matter what late evening hours I'd come to order, say something about this subject, and I'll say it right now. Indeed, hate speech, slander, false accusations, racism, chauvinism, homophobia, none of these are things we should or should close our eyes on. Today, the Internet has become the largest free speech platform for people around the world and, of course, there is a speech that should not be tolerated, nor is it part of a society of free citizens. In particular, the problem is strengthened because the comments are mostly anonymous or pseudonymic. You always have a case when you deal with politics, you always have a case where someone praises you, there's a lot of people who have to tell you what they think about you, and always these brave boys who need to say what they think about you, they never sign their name and last name, but they're always some fake profiles, and then they're very brave behind these fake profiles, but when they sign their name and last name, they're a little less brave and find the right balance is not easy. And I don't think there's a magic wand, but what's certain that the restriction should be based on the law, it has to be like that, let's never forget it, achieves a goal that is legitimate and so at least possible aggressive, so some kind of development test. If it was easy, it wasn't because if it was easy, then we'd have an acclaim and say it was something really good. A lot of debates have already been held and I'm really going to do it again, and that's about the article, the famous article. 93 which prescribes that the electronic publication provider is responsible for the overall content published in the electronic publication, including the content generated by the users. This means that in comments it is forbidden to insult man’s dignity or to publish particularly immoral and pornographic content. There are a special dignity of man and immoral content of very broad concepts under which one can undertake and almost all, as it pleases someone. The same as the example of the provision that it is forbidden to publish a content that promotes behaviour that is harmful to health or safety. Let's be careful, keep an eye on what's going on. Don't let us have any ideas under which we can really be anything. What is more precisely defined as not publishing discrimination based on race or ethnicity or colour of skin, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, nationality or social origin, property status, education, social status, marital or family status, age and health status, disability, genetic heritage, gender identity, expression or sexual orientation. And now we come to punishment. The punishments were really on several occasions. With all due respect, these penalties will be decided by law enforcement courts and now there is always this capacity of criminal courts, uniformity of court practice is also a particular issue, the height of punishment. It would be a good idea if the proponent in the explanation gave some examples that we have given examples of how it has been regulated so far and what is happening would be simpler and clearer for us to discuss it. On the other hand, there are some things that really don't belong in public communication. I'm going to end up speeding up and saying one specific example. The right to comment within electronic publications may be given to users who have registered with the service provider using their existing e-Citizen profile. Their identity is not publicly available, but in the event of a dispute, the publisher needs to know who it's about. Only if he's not able to answer for himself. This is one example that some other countries have, and it seems to me that would be a good example that we too could use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32281	Thank you very much. But we need to stay away from sexist statements, because they're not just boys, maybe girls are just as bad as some remarks. But we are going to the next individual debate of the respected representative Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32282	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. With this bill of law, we're metaphorically firing a sparrow with a cannon. First of all, there is a problem that is not represented in Croatia at all. I gave a speech on behalf of the 2019 Statistics Club. The DORH where we saw that in Croatia is a very small number of happiness. It would seem that there are no such crimes as hate, such a sanctioned sentence of hate. So there is no reason to create such strong censorship artillery for something that is not strongly represented in Croatia. The article that I spoke of, which I believe the minister incorrectly interpreted in the replicas of 93, has two paragraphs. One refers to what we all share, and these are the things that stand in the Penal Code, and that's the Penal Code, and it sanctions it anyway. It's easy to get to the police today to get to the one who left a comment that directly calls for violence, terrorism, I don't know about pedophilia or anything like that. However, I will repeat it again, which says: "In accordance with Article 14 of this Law, I will take all measures to prevent the publication of content that encourages violence and hatred." One hundred thousand to one million kuna, which means most portals are shut down, almost, fine and nothing is forbidden. However, there is a penalty to be determined arbitrarily. So there are some hermeneutics, interpreters at the Council of Electronic Media, who will know exactly where the border of voice hatred is and where it is not and where it probably means shutting down the portal. So, I'm going to say it one more time, but obviously there's no freedom to exist the portal after the opinions that are passed by the dogma or the assessment of this electronic council that will also be the Council for the resolution of love from hate. There are some other controversial things here that I haven't been able to point out in 10 minutes of speech on behalf of the club. For example, the article 51, which obliges commercial television to buy content of independent productions, is very problematic. 10% of the programme must be the content of European independent producers and 5% of Croatian producers. Why? Why do market relations prejudge in this way? One member of the administration of one of our commercial televisions said: “The adoption of these provisions from the Law will certainly reflect negatively on the business of our television because we will be forced to buy content that we ourselves can produce for less money.” This will endanger the business of all commercial televisions and we believe that it suits certain stakeholders. We already have a situation like this, I don't know why when we're discussing it from HTV why HTVs besides all their journalists and editors, and studies and everything has to buy from outside production some talk show shows that are below the level of what HTVs can produce themselves? And now we see that televisions are commercially and committed to such a thing that destroys fair market relations and business freedom. Some provisions are totally absurd as Article 25, which says: “In audiovisual media services and radio programs and content of electronic publications are not allowed...”, so among other things that are not allowed, “in any way to encourage, promote and enhance violence and crime.” Is Coopolain “Kum” the excelling of violence and crime? The mob's showing up there is pretty cool. Vito Corleone, Michael Corleone looks extremely attractive, their lifestyles. Shall we forbid the presentation of the Godfather? What about Quentin Tarantino's movies? According to this principle, each can be interpreted as a stimuli and portraying attractive in the aesthetic sense of violence. So these are some absurd things that can appear in practice, this is just one example. I'll do it again. In order for us to accept this Law, it is necessary to exclude the fluid concept of gender identity from the 4 articles. It is also necessary to exclude the provision that the publisher is also responsible for the content created by the users. Dispose of this item in Article 93 of the arbitration panel on encouraging violence and hatred. To throw out this obligation by commercial television that content must be purchased by 5 or 10%, then we can only discuss the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32283	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32284	Thank you. I'm going to break up while I'm listening to my colleague Glavasevic just before it seems to me like I'm listening to someone on the hard right. So he advocated giving up freedom for a little bit of security. It's almost one militar style, so like I don't know certain hard right-wings advocate militarization of society, so let's give up certain freedoms for a little bit of security. I think that freedom should never be given up, especially not by such legal proposals, and here in this sense I would commend both your speech and what you have said and these demands that we have for the ruling, so that these controversial articles are thrown out. I don't know why it's going in this direction, that's what I said in the reply to the minister, that there's just no reason for such a strict law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32285	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32286	That's exactly why at the end of the speech on behalf of the club I appealed to my colleagues on the left. That they don't agree to these things, that they don't agree to this censor's noose, even though it can be done at this point to promote something that might be right for them, like a birth identity. Because in 5 or 10 years, the mainstream in Brussels, which our obviously obedient case is different and we, we'll all agree, don't want that. Let us respect people as free responsible individuals, Croats are largely not haters of Croatian citizens, this problem is not very expressed with us, we are struggling to bring it down to zero even though it is likely that this optimistic scenario will never in practice be perfect and without the hate speech, but let us not agree to deny us freedom of speech in this way and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32287	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32288	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow, it is difficult to follow this debate in fact since, literally, all the time, certain facts come from your side and states which are simply not true, so it states which do not write at all in this law, so this part when we talked about censorship and this Article 93 paragraphs 2 and 3 that you mention, I think we have already made that clear, I will not repeat that part, but one other thing that you have been going through since the beginning of the debate, you are talking about sanctions, criminal sanctions, so which is prescribed by this law, and you mention this article and you state the penalty to a million kuna. So, read that article, that's art. Paragraph 97 is therefore not stated anywhere that the penalty for a possible injury is art. 93, million kunas, absolutely nowhere. You've been doing it all night, and you've been doing it all day. It's 93th, paragraph 4, and he's talking about enrolment. Not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32289	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32290	I may understand that you have difficulty following the debate as you yourself have admitted but don't invite me to read this, I read this very well, and I talked about it to the Minister and on the Committee of Resort about what will happen. I'll read you an article. In accordance with Article 21(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 93th of this law. And then there goes everything listed including birth identity, including this arbitration assessment of the Council for Electronic Media about what it is to encourage hate and violence and what it isn't. So at least be so intellectually honest that you don't impute me to say something that isn't there, I've supported every single one of my own thesis today with quotes, exact articles of law and numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32291	Thank you very much. Now, we're going to move on to the next debate, before that, since it's half past 10:00 in the evening, if we had another 20 individual discussions, that we have to discuss absolutely today's choice, appointment and resolution and the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, I would suggest or announce that we don't go with point no today. 2. This is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of Financial Implementation, the Emergency Procedure, the first and second reading proposed by the Green-Left Block Representatives Club and the SDP Advocacy Club. We're going to discuss this tomorrow as a second point, it would be, you know, a special opposition has always been very loudly commented that its points are being placed in the cans of the night, unfortunately, we've spent the whole day, by half 10, we'll probably still stay here for at least 2 hours, it would be bizarre and incorrect towards the opposition if you want us to put in some kind of midnight, to start discussing it, so we'll transfer it to tomorrow as a second point, we'll throw out the second point, we'll discuss it next week, and the first point will remain what you've got in the proposal, so the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the EU for 2021, and then, as a second point, we'll discuss what we need to discuss as a second point today. I hope you all agree with that. And of course, the vote will be at 12 o'clock and the session will begin again a little later, at 10 and 45, tomorrow for the memorial we will have previously. Here, we now return to our individual debates which have been reported by many, so the next one will be represented by representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. There are a lot of good and transparent things in this bill that have already been discussed, and I would certainly like to cite some of the concerns and inconclusives that have been raised in this public debate. As I said in the replica, the position of several public debate participants, primarily professional associations, is that it is not good that media policy has not been defined in terms of the media strategy before this Electronic Media Act, that no new Media Act has been adopted. You replied to me by the Minister that the Media Act is going in the fourth quarter, and that as part of the national development strategy mentioned media strategy, here I have given myself the effort and restored materials from the national development strategy, there is indeed a self-promoting of the development of culture and media within 2.5 pages, and this national culture development plan is just waiting. So here's a clear suggestion since there were really a lot of the items that here's participants looking for could then be answered in the way that you responded to me in the replica, not that it's written all over, received knowledge, and then it turns out that everything that the participants stated is not respected. In this regard, information also came to me and that some members of the HND actually stepped out of the working group in 11 months 2019, because their proposals were not being respected, and as proposals of the profession. In any case, consideration should be taken of the obvious problems of media and journalism, and the problems are, for example, that In the past few years, there have been 50% of media employees, the working conditions of journalists becoming increasingly difficult, not to mention the additional layoffs already taking place, and they are conditioned by the Covid crisis. The old problem is also the dependence of the media on political structures, and there is pressure on economic structures, and it is logical that the public loses confidence in the media because all of this is reflected in their quality. Public consultation participants also asked that this Law on Electronic Media, which actually regulates the allocations of public support to the media through the Fund to encourage pluralism and diversity of electronic media to advance and support, so that one costs a financial increase in the fund and that these support is sufficient for the normal functioning of a media, and on the other hand to advance the way they are assigned, that they do not go to the profit of publishers but to pay for the work of journalists. So they wanted the money to be more and the criteria for the assignment to be stricter. One of the professional associations, therefore, asked for the advertising of state bodies and public companies in commercial electronic media to be completely abolished because advertising is practically another name for corruption or for the passing of public money into private pockets without criteria. The problem in the proposal of the ZEM is also considered to reduce the obligation to publish news and inform local radio and television from 10% to only 4, 5 or 7% of its programme depending on the size of the cover-up area. It believes this will cause great damage to citizens living in these areas and whose local media are the main source of information. In addition to reversing the informative quality of local and regional media, there will be further loss of job for journalists in local communities. It is also stated that neither their proposal on a minimum number of radio and television frequencies for non-profit publishers has been included, and the Electronic Media Agency has the possibility to define any concession before it can be awarded as non-profit or profit. In the '90s, it was a law that prescribed that, for example, On 2 commercial radios comes 1 non-profit and now let's say an example if there are 4 radio stations in the area of some 50,000 district, all 4 do not have to be commercial because there are not even so many revenues that they can be profitable. Therefore, the profession requires at least one to be non-profit, and this can be regulated since these decisions are taken by the Council for Electronic Media. They also quote a number of other items that I said were either not accepted or received, so here I hope that by the second reading some of them will still be appreciated and classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32293	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative, Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32294	Fellow Members and colleagues, we have not talked about many things and are equally important topics that should be dealt with in terms of the debate of this law, for example market intervention, issues in which it can be regulated legally and whether it can be prescribed and to what extent the content of independent producers on commercial media. But time is short, and here I am forced to touch what is the measure of today's debate, which is the problem of hate speech. However, hate speech is not the only fluid, vague concept, and it is not the only law he tries to impose as an ideological pendrek that will be glided and dressed in public space in the future. We also have problems with other terms, as I have pointed out earlier, such terms as extensive damage to environmental protection, so no such behaviour should be encouraged. I would understand that the behavior that damages the environment should not be encouraged, even though I do not understand what it is, but it is very damaging, it shows because it is the terminology that has been translated from the current law and which has come to be considered in the framework of the new bill, that it is simply prescribed, that things are not being considered. Then how do we even come to a serious debate about the more serious problems that are now bothering us all? It's the same thing with content that causes physical, mental or moral harm to minors. It's one of those content that's also being fined. In which way we will determine what is moral damage, who will answer that question, or if it is not possible to answer whether this provision is necessary at all, if it cannot be implemented in practice, or if it is a dead letter on paper. Do we write that just to have some provisions in the law? This debate today is more than anything but hate speech has shown that we have a serious problem with what laws serve and with all the additional content that is often out of focus, and in them it is, and we expect ordinary people to implement it in practice or to open it up and be some sort of management thing that they will know how to do. When I asked that question in the replica, I received the answer that media laws are specific, that they do not prescribe precise treatment, the minister said. What's the point of the law if he doesn't prescribe precise treatment, and then we don't need law, so we can agree on different inaccuracies by street law. That's one problem. The problem is other pausal thesis, not just individual, individual syntagma problem. Here, listen to this. Audiovisual radio programs and content of electronic publications should meet the following criteria, contribute to the free formation of opinions, the versatile and objective information of listeners and viewers, as well as their education and entertainment. All of this, we don't want it, education and entertainment together, do we? These are some floscules that are copied and copied nobody knows what they mean in reality and they are there to deepen the pages of this and of many other laws, and when we talk about the media at least then we can really get into content and talk about them. I'm going to be up for a little while in this time of hate speech. When we have a prime minister who speaks of the impression, the wrong impression that is left behind and that some encourage terrorism when they question certain events, then we really worry about hate speech and what it can mean to someone. But this law is not the only parallel of three things that suggest that we will deal with this seriously and that this will be misused for political purposes. One protocol on the conduct of a hate crime that replaces fluid concepts with even more fluid definitions is about undefined frequency and undefined absence of another obvious motive. She's got our famous strategy, you know, the one that was free, she's saying that the onset of crime, violence.../incomprehensible... that's probably the worst consequences of hate speech, we're the best in Europe, and that's our goal. Great. After that, it talks about the fight against radicalism, extremism and terrorism, and it talks about security and that we must not be exposed to hate and that we are talking in the context of increased radicalisation of the increase in the threat of terrorism. So, at the same time, our strategy boasts that we are the best, and on the other hand it talks about an increase in radicalisation. We have an obvious problem with the fact that the only thing we're doing and that's the taste of this is we're doing it uncritically into our own space a new speech and some of the times that are popular and that Then we should cheer and dress later. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32295	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. She's a very respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32296	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, therefore the laws should be clear, the laws should be in a way that reads them what the goal is, how we will implement them, and the financial frameworks. Through the discussion of this law, I thought of something else. So, I'm usually a big fan of all sports events and football when things and dilemmas couldn't be done then the var was introduced and now all the judges are going to VAR and watch if it was a pen, it wasn't a pen, whether someone was on the offside or we have a feeling. In order to enforce this law, it is equally necessary to introduce a var where it would then be evaluated and watched what was anything. That's bad. So it's a bad option as soon as you give someone an estimate in one way or another of those little sensitive lines that can take us all away wrong. We can have different worlds of visions but what What we want, we want this law to be good and enforceable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32297	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32298	If VAR had been one of Maradona's most famous moves, you wouldn't have seen it in his score, and then the history of football would have looked quite different. So that's the problem with the law, if the law can't be as precise as VA then we don't even have to write it. And that's where I'll agree with you, if this law is unclear to us, if when we promote it in more detail it becomes and senseless what we do and damage, here's my colleague Bencic here's environmental protection mostly because we bring her down to a level of flossula that means nothing and we put her where we don't need to, and we don't seriously protect the environment when we need to. As long as we approach content in serious ministries such as the Ministry of Culture no more or less, we can't expect citizens to whom these laws were meant, not to this debate that is becoming funny to ever be served.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32299	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32300	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, I do not understand your thesis on how to use an ideological pendrek to prevent calls, calls for violence and hate speech. I don't know if you can hear me. So, I don't understand that your thesis is going to use an ideological pendrek to prevent violence and hate speech. I see nothing ideological or in calls for violence and hate speech as well as in preventing them. I don't see any ideology here, so I'd like you to show me what's ideological. And as for hate speech, there's nothing fluid about it. In the same or comparable situation, a person must not be brought into a discriminatory position, and I believe that we all agree with that, and this is exclusively about preventing a humiliating, hostile and threatening relationship motivated by the forbidden grounds of discrimination. See the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights, you have thousands, thousands of judgments who speak, and precisely if you are not directed to you [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I can illustrate what it is to speak hate and call for violence. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32301	Honorable representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32302	The idea that sets to dogma level becomes ideology. A speech of uncritical hatred and used to punish someone and also to punish money becomes part of ideology. When we talk about hate speech in this context, we all know that hate speech is harmful and that it is bad and it is not disputed and that it should not be used, but if we are to unclearly define it, if based on it we are to prescribe penalties, if we are to do so in other documents, because I said that this is part of a broader process and listed concrete and even contradictory things such as a strategy that not once says that we are best for safety and for lack of violence, and on the other hand, it says that there is a radicalization of society present. When we say that hate speech or the determination of hate crime will be conducted in a way that will monitor the frequency of speech or the absence of another obvious motive, then we clearly have vague formulas that one can politically abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32303	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32304	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32305	We can use the microphone, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32306	And I'm sorry, so you mentioned vague formulations, so you cited an example of a threat to the physical, mental and moral development of a minor. I hope that you have also read the rule on the protection of minors in electronic media, which was brought back in 2010, it was brought by the Council for Electronic Media, also in 2015, where this term was very clearly clarified and that I am not now reading in item 2 which you mean. Therefore, everything is clearly prescribed and I repeat once again and transfer my colleagues to Rasputic, so Article 97 does not prescribe a fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32307	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32308	I'm glad to look like a secretary to you, but I think you can tell him yourself because it's enough that you said at the moment of the parliamentary debate, I'm not here to convey your messages, nor have the people chosen me. As for what you were talking about, arguments like that say somewhere else, we just passed it on, etc., don't stand. It can write the biggest nonsense, so we don't have the right to pass it on. If something is unclear then it is unclear, if it is speaking of moral, and these are the terms I will remind you that morality comes from the seas and that it is about customs, these are concepts that need to be unequivocally defined in particular if we are talking about this law where it is for them, and they are listed in that taxing list in Article 97 provides for fines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32309	The next replica is the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32310	Thank you. So many interesting moments happened, but I try to focus. I'd love to hear you finish the thought of a new speech, it seems to me that you may have run out of time, and if you had anything else to say, so if you'd finished your thought, I'd appreciate it. And another note VAR everyone hates, so VAR everybody hates and hates it for a reason because some things among other things, I don't think that can be fully transmitted to what we're discussing here today. I agree that it should be as precise as possible, but some things, especially when it comes to language, are simply impossible to define. Linguistics doesn't have a unique definition for word. We have a series of examples in the living room where sometimes it's very difficult to draw a line between language and dialect and the best definition is that language is a dialect for the land army and the navy where the navy is not necessary. Here, and I'd love to hear the thought of a new talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32311	Thank you. Answer the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32312	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. So, the new speech we have some syntagms that are popular, we have some sort of spirit of time that it tries to capture. When we talk about trying to fight hate speech within our strategy even though we've established it earlier because let's not measure it, although I think the feather is stronger than the sword and I believe that many people here would agree, it's not a hate speech that worries us so much. We're concerned about his consequences, his increase in violence and so on. Although we see in our strategy that we have no problem with crime, violence, etc., more than 2.7% of staying the best in Europe is our goal. And that in the same strategy a few pages later we talk about this famous hate speech. What we're doing, we're trying to fit into some financial framework we're uncritically taking on certain terms so that if they obviously don't make sense in practice abuse for political purposes, I can't draw a different conclusion from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32313	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32314	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues here, would look a little at the observations of the profession of those who live on the media, so journalists and owners who expected this law to follow other laws, such as The Media Act and the HRT Act. Although we know that a large number of professional people are involved in various professions, some of them seem to have been involved in writing this law by IT engineers, and few or almost none of the people who live off that content. It is believed that the law is not developmental and that in this flood of news, poor journalism, frightening phenomena in the media area that are difficult to control, we need to know what we expect in the Republic of Croatia from media content and what kind of media we want to write accordingly a law that will be encouraging and stimulating, which will give opportunities to journalistic content, which will not forget either entertainment or commercial. I must mention that it is extremely important that a proposal on the duration of the concessions that has lasted for 10 years is respected, and according to the provisions of this law would take 20 years. However, I hope you'll sort this out by the second reading. It is not clear whether the concession of concessions to concessions will be extended to 20 years from the moment the concession begins or will end up in the old provisions, followed by the signing of a new concession to 20 years. It is in vain to talk about content, about the spread of hate and other things if the problem of media survival is not resolved before, and if normal business is ensured and the survival of the media will also find a solution to the regulation of the content that appears on these media. I'm going to draw attention to some problems, I'm not going to make it all in this debate, but later in the final debate, I'm going to continue with these problems that I'd like to draw attention to, and I think we should get to another reading, since I think the problems are pretty big. Here are some problems. Article 39 states: ‘The bodies of the state administration and public institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia as well as legal persons owned and mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia owe 15% of the annual amount intended for the promotion or advertising of their services or activities to spend on advertising in audiovisual and radio programmes of regional and local broadcasters of television and/or radio or electronic publications.’ Namely, there are no criminal provisions. In accordance with Article 97 of the Treaty on the The law defining criminal provisions provides a criminal provision for almost every article of the law, but there is no criminal provision for breach of Article 39. As a result, the Ministry, INA, Luttria and other business entities to which the provision applies may violate the provision without any consequences. This fact allowed the Ministry of Economy to spend 25 million kuna last year, and no single kuna was paid to local television. If they were paid by chance that amount would be around 20% of the funds paid to them from the Pluralism and diversity Fund. On the other hand, the media is obliged to publish the structure of their income and, if it is not published or published, it will be too late to be punished according to the provisions of the law, which would draw attention to the provision of Article 97(3), which states that the fine will be between 100 and million kuna. I hope you know what that amount means for electronic media, for electronic publications, and especially for those who are small and low incomed, say for televisions that have revenues of 3 to 4 million kunas or for a radio that has revenues of up to 300, 400, 500 thousand kuna, which means a fine of 100 thousand kuna. I therefore propose that penalties be defined as a percentage relative to income. For example. 1% of the income, and then national media service providers, or electronic publications providers, who have 200, 300 million, would be the penalty of 2 to 3 million, and the small would be the appropriate amount to warn them but would allow them to continue their work normally. Finally, the question arises. Why do they have to submit these reports in the first place, because if it is information about whether 5% of the total weekly audiovisual or radio programme is dedicated to the announcement of news and information in the area of concession, then it is enough to provide business information? So I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32315	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's gone. He loses his right to speak, so the next one will speak... And where? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. He's showing up. Okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32316	Thank you very much. I see the vice president couldn't wait to see me, of course. I know it's big, big, you're big hearts, I doubt you'd do it. [[Where would I go? So I look forward to hearing your wisdom.]] In your sleep, you wouldn't think of it if you didn't hurry up and take the word. I would say here to the Minister who is patient here, I must confess rarely which minister as a culture minister sits patiently and listens, comments. And I'd be here now if you'd start talking about freedoms, is freedom the most important thing, it's the Constitution guaranteed so we fought, the Croatian defenders gave their lives and it's a dream, I mean the century-old dream of the Croatian people that we have democracy, that we have freedom of opinion. Of course, we need to discuss this and this Croatian Assembly should discuss it. But when we talk about freedoms, then we must not cross the border so that we do not go back to some totalitarianism mainly on media freedom. Freedom of the media is very important. However, today in Croatia here I am sorry, very important to me here I will mention portals dealing with defence issues. I know in my county we have portals, there... ask a question on the Defence Committee under the defence portals, but they do not write about defenders at all, for example, but the Split-Dalmatia County gives them money written under hidden names, but write more, it was founded by an example in Sinj against me by a portal. [[You don't understand.]] It doesn't matter. But it's like a defense portal funded by the county, so there's that. So, mostly this protection of the Homeland War and the truth of the Homeland War is very important. But if defense portals are established, then we need to point out that truth about how freedom, freedom and media came out, the freedom of all that we have, what we should have and here to cultivate. Penalties and sanctions. The fines and sanctions of 100,000 to millions of kunas. And really that my colleague here mentioned that we quote the Pope in some of his views we might turn out to be, to be sued, because the Pope said his position on certain things, which means gender ideology. He defined it as a man, a woman, and now if it gets published it might turn out to be spoken against gender ideology. So we put in some kind of term that might not satisfy it. I agree with everyone here who speaks i.e. a democratic debate that is for this and for that. However, we need to keep an eye on that border, mainly sanctions. Sanctions on portals from 100,000 to million kuna he now, how much it is to switch to portals, comments from someone it is now questionable. I personally think it's a hit on the media so we can bury mostly the weaker media. What can happen? Someone under some name can write what they want and in those comments someone sues him and that portal would actually have to pay for it. But hopefully here's when we have, I know it's not a topic and social network, and when we express our views on social networks, I think what's important and what we stand for is media freedom, I know that it goes beyond that and the line that certain portals that have no name or last name. They do not have an editor or do not sign an article that can harm people but should be brave and write by name and last name so that there are some things that we need to change, and my basic question was why such a blow with penalties on comments, and comments can be written by anyone. To me, if it's any interest now that a portal is destroyed, we can start with thousands of comments which are inappropriate content in fact and burdensome, so there is, load that portal with lawsuits, court proceedings and, of course, sanctions. Freedom of speech is the basis of democracy. I think we're trying to defend it, we can't defend freedom of the media, we can't become in this assembly, I don't trust the minister to be the goal of becoming graves of free thought, free words, free writing, and, of course, everything for the writer would be signed, and he should be responsible for his words, that's the freedom we've all fought for together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32317	Please remain, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32318	Thank you. Dear fellow Bulj, it is interesting that such a restrictive law on comments on portals is proposed to the media by a party whose senior officials are actually punished for writing under pseudonyms, for example. Former Minister Tolusic as he was called Roxy or how, so some nickname was the one under which he commented, praised himself, and when we talk about some kind of hate speech almost some kind of cooze speech there might best be a witness to the HDZ Facebook page, I don't know if he saw what it looks like, pubertyal announcements don't really oversmart this huscay, but here we stand as one of the freedom parties that HDZ as well as he's not smart, so this can comment under the pseudonym on the portal. So, we stand for absolute freedom, so let's see who's as smart as they are. what he's saying. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32319	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32320	I, as a parliamentary representative at this point, was an ordinary man who had received the trust of the people of course that what I hear from the ruling and even in Petrinja were morbid statements that he would not want to repeat because there was no fellow Pupovac, statements after the earthquake that I could never say, nor count the blood cells of those who died, but on the contrary of every victim should be helped, so it was in the Homeland War the Croatian soldier was doing it and of course that the democratisation of HDZ was mostly going through it here as I said in the Split-Dalmatia County doing business under cover that the defence portal paid by the county, financed by a betrayal to write against me, does not write it as a defence issue then I am a problem in Sinj, here as I am a problem in Sinj and just as a Croatian defender, is there some kind of a set of people who don't sign and only write against me, and I will be asked as a very defensive question minister and I will be asked as a very well as a lawyer. What he thinks about it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32321	The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Comrade Bulj, please... Unfortunately, yes, I'm not afraid. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32322	Unfortunately for you, yes, and fortunately for the people, I am here, e.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32323	Buddy Bull, you're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32324	Nice greeting, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague at this late hour for almost two decades I spent first on two locals, then on two national radio stations, so here from my corner just to tell you something about some points in this law. You said we'd raise the presence of domestic music from 20 to 25% and we'd have a period of adjustment from even 2 years. As a man who has really spent almost an entire working life on radio stations and on one who exclusively broadcasts domestic music, so in a 100% volume, I can tell you, and we are all aware that radios become commercial, both local and national concessions or concessions of any kind use one tiny trick, so if you might wake up at a deaf hour at 3 or 4 o'clock, turn on these commercial stations then you will hear a lot of Croatian music but during the day when the most listening parts of the program, of course, you will listen exclusively to foreign music. Therefore, this will certainly not contribute to promoting Croatian cultural gains because these are commercially mostly private radio stations they need and must exist and have the full right to their policy or their programme to adapt to the competition of what people want to listen to. Thus, the law itself, or such a legal amendment, will neither convince them to play Croatian domestic music nor, of course, will act in any way actively in promoting Croatian gains. I'll talk a little bit about concessions. And I've been involved many times in making such documents. What's that? Basically empty the lab, thousands of unnecessary letters on paper that probably nobody or very few people look at at at all. We're going in a little bit, although we're entering the HACOM area, but I think we should open up frequency bands primarily where we talk about radio activity, naturally leave surveillance to the law and competent institutions. The market will do the most important thing, decide who will succeed and who won't. In those 20 years, I managed to squeeze into two commercial TV stations with a national concession. So that's when we talk about this program work, what we can all say about their programming schemes. It's clear to all of us that the result of the struggle for ratings is what they have absolute rights to. But the current commercial television programmes with national concession certainly do not contribute to education, promotion of Croatian cultural gains and participation in cultural life, let alone the promotion of phenomenal international understanding. One benefit of their programming schemes is currently that every average housewife speaks Turkish as if she played for Galatasaray, we're around here somewhere. What's left of the TV? We are left with Croatian Radio Television, a national television house that you are in fact a little bit and too limited by these various legal provisions. And there I spent a lot of time as an employee, later as a manager. It satisfies the current ratings of the Croatian TV programme at least according to official research. Croatian programme i.e. The Croatian program of our television number 3, number 4 already has a beautiful and permanent audience and it is really to welcome their programming scheme. Unfortunately, the vast majority of employees still do not work at full capacity. And as far as this law is concerned, I would add that Article 15 of the 2nd indent should be complemented, and it should read as follows: “On the subject of public importance it is necessary for listeners and viewers to present to all relevant facts and attitudes, regardless of their contradictions, which are presented by their partners on the subject of public talks. ” In fact, experience teaches us sometimes in a public space there are only views that correspond to the interests of authorities or certain lobbys regardless of the fact that they are the same in accordance with the truth. Infringement of the principle of Audiatur et alter pars, let the other side be heard is only censorship, which is ultimately worse than censorship itself. Dear Madam Minister, how well we've worked together on today's 1st item of the agenda, I believe we'll find some space for some changes in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32325	Thank you. We have one replica, please remain, dear counsel Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32326	Well, here's the thing today, we've heard this syntagma a lot of times that the market is going to solve the issue of the media, that the media is on the market that it's good. And here's one question I have that you might be able to answer from your experience. So tell me, for example, how does a media that holds to the high quality of journalism that deals with investigative journalism that wants to hire their journalists, pay them a fair salary, which does not deal with showbuzz and has no clickbait titles, but deals with serious analyses and texts how exactly on the market of 3 and a half million people such a medium survives?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32327	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32328	Thank you, Replic. Such a media unfortunately we can freely say currently in Croatia there is no he printed or electronic nature, was he present as a radio station, as a television station, as a portal or as anything. Unfortunately, we are all aware that we are losing an extremely large number of journalistic frames and those printed and this electronic one, and believe me, everyone, although I don't have a bit of hair to lift from the clickbait articles that some famous Croatian singer of the respectable decolte walked through the flower square in boots of 30 thousand kuna. Unfortunately, this is our reality and we must learn to live with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32329	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know it's late, but I think it's important to react to some topics. In particular, as regards support for the Croatian cultural and creative industry, I am pleased that you have commented. However, you did not obviously read Article 28, because other than increasing the quota to 30% by, 25% for Croatian music is determined and at what time music should be so that part of it must be between 18 and... must be in the daily publication. [[You don't understand.]] Excuse me. The second question is Article 51. You mentioned him. A few MPs mentioned him. This article provides for transitional periods, therefore, not for Croatian music. The commitment to Croatian music and daily broadcasting will take effect as the law enters into force. As for the obligation of commercial television to acquire Croatian content from Croatian independent producers, a transitional period is foreseen. It'll start in 2022 with a percentage of 2.5%, and then it's supposed to grow. This is what we have identified as a transitional period in the first order of this crisis. But not to be a fiction of our own, in France that quota is 15%, in the United Kingdom 10, in Austria 10, in Finland 19, in Italy 12.5. So these same publishers that in Croatia many of them have or are co-owned by foreign companies in countries where they operate are aware that they must invest in national cultural and creative industries. I believe that this same standard must be accepted in the Republic of Croatia and, apart from acting in this new market, which generates revenue from advertising, some of the funds must be invested in the Croatian cultural and creative industry, and this is what these provisions of the law are all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32331	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32332	Thank you, Vice President. So this legislative proposal was the subject of an attempt to agree with representatives of various cultural actors of Croatian authors and producers who, together with the HAVC, tried to persuade the Ministry of Culture for certain improvements in the text and that is something about what the minister was just saying. So they say these negotiations took place during last fall and some progress exists although not entirely focus their next articles. Article 29 of Chapter 4 refers to video on demand services created outside the Republic of Croatia that target our audience, which means we read Netflix, HBO to go, etc. Or they pick up a subscription from our IP address. The legislator, following the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, stated that such a business entity must have at least 30% of European parts on its schedule and that it must pay HAVC the amount according to AV activity law. The HAVC is not satisfied with this and is still seeking to make this basic law a sum of 5% of the revenues achieved in the Republic of Croatia as the annual commitment of the Streamer are these.../incomprehensible/... platforms according to the public fund HAVC. HAVC is funded by audio visual income television, telecom and cinematographers. The HAVC further insists on the obligation of such a business entity to invest in domestic production and that this obligation stands in the law as an additional or at least alternative option for the settlement of its obligations. These are streamers, they're much stronger, of course, and now there's a crisis all over the world around Covid, but anyway. The described position of HAVC enjoys the full support of Croatian directors, producers, employees, photographers, and probably film critics. Any support for this attitude is the development of the Croatian cultural sector and the well-being of actors, writers and filmmakers. For the functioning of the entire eco-system of audiovisual creation, Articles 49, 48, 47, this article defines the quota of European parts and quotas of Croatian parts and definitions of the same works. This Regulation shall enter So it quotes the AVMS directive, which states that 50 plus percent of the broadcasting time is European, European audiovisual works, and the same article predicts that at least half of these works are Croatian audiovisual works and Article 48 defines European audiovisual works, and Article 47 defines Croatian audiovisual works. Now I won't get to the end of it, they're still looking for this in Article 47 'cause I want to say something about hate speech. We believe that it is of paramount importance to deal actively with the problem of hate speech and the promotion of violence in the media. In this regard, we find it important to note that many actors in society, among them and part of non-profit media have for years been warning of this issue and the financing of media that not only do not regulate readers' comments on their websites but actively encourage violence and promote hate speech. Let's not fool ourselves, one part of the non-profit media, and it's taking part in this, and it's very pro-active of what we've been talking about on the board. We therefore consider that one of these examples would be the HKV portal, Narod.hr, a Croatian letter that is not a portal, but we believe that the first step would be for public authorities, public institutions to stop funding such media. This is not only about electronic media but also about print, Croatian letter is the longest example of the media that systematically defames minorities on its pages, promotes impatience, spreads untruths and opens space to voices that bitterly express hate and encourage violence. Furthermore, the Agency for Electronic Media also regularly finance such media, and rarely sanctions their action. He's recently from the Social Fund, and it's actually about primitive nationalistism. I'm a whore. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32333	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Maria Kapulice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32334	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, the urge to place a person or group in an unfavourable position with the invitation to deny or restrict their equality and rights has no legitimate purpose or reasonable justification. When it comes to understanding the very meaning of hate speech, since there is a lot of incorrect understanding of interpretations and even that we will be deprived of the right to be funny or sarcastic, it is important to say that it is important for hate speech to establish the discriminatory intention of attacking human dignity, the dignity of a community because of the commitment, belief or value system. And that is why I don't understand this whole evening's drive to be clouded by the achievement of this goal, by examining the truthfulness, by limiting criticism or by avoiding commenting or writing about affairs and so on. Freedom of expression is the cornerstone of democratic society and therefore the rule applies to all. And for those who insult, they upset deliberately with their actions, so we all have the right to freedom of expression. It's very wide-ranging, but we mustn't abuse it. We're not allowed to do that, and borders are hate speech and calling for violence. Not every expression of hatred or every statement that stems from such an attitude toward something or someone is also a hate speech. When you say that the German Chancellor is a walking political corpse and you compare her with Honecker to an East German communist leader, it's not hate speech, it's your opinion and your court of law. When you say you tell everyone who supports the president of the Croatian government that it won't go well if in time he gets rid of it, it's not hate speech, that's your opinion. When you say you hate the government, it's not hate speech, but when you say about one of us being genocidal, like all Croats, it's hate speech because that claim refers to the entire people and the claims that apply to national minorities, to some group of people, to all defenders, to all people who work in the public sector, or to anyone who deals with public affairs, that's hate speech. Some say that if measures are taken that will further regulate responsibility for hate speech that no one can talk about anything anymore, that we will have either hate speech or zero speech. Well, I don't agree with that. My opinion is that there is a huge space between these two extremes for communicating on any subject, for arguing, for expressing opinions, but without threats, without a discriminatory basis for denying someone their right to do so. In this debate, we have heard a lot of things, sovereigns who act in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, which has existed since 1950, to which many Croatian dissidents have been called, so if you will, the sovereigns compare with the dark days of sovereignty. The centre and the voice that the two will be able to write about the affairs and whether the publishers will have to verify the truthfulness of the publication of their users. A bridge that believes that limiting calls for violence is equal to restricting freedom of speech and that neither calls for violence nor hate speech should be regulated, it is said in the bridge of the valve that should be left to people. This type of valve does not allow for any democratic society, and the society that sees a means and a valve to relax society very quickly turns into totalitarian in its calls for violence and hate speech. There's nothing fluid about inciting violence and hate speech, everything is exact. See Council of Europe Convention, Art. 10 Who talks about it, look at thousands [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] documents that talk about it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32335	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32336	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Capula, I don't know where there are such clear definitions of what you were talking about and who would define it, it's not so clear. We have seen that your party president and the Prime Minister have characterized many things in the way that was appropriate to him, so the question is who will be your commissioners who will decide what is a hate speech, what is laughing and what is not to be. And nobody here claims it's normal to call for violence that it should be some kind of exhaust valve. There's a Penal Code, and it's known that calling for violence, which is what slanders are all about according to the Penal Code. In his 2019 report, the DORH also showed how many of these cases were in Croatia in 2019. Not as much as you claim, and in fact we are here, I would say in a good situation if we were looking at the rest of Europe, and as far as calling for violence itself, some offensive comments, but also violence itself. There have been cases we all condemned, no one normal can justify it but these are incidents, we have no systematic or violence, I don't know in Croatian cities and streets, and besides you said that Croatia is a safe country, it was part of your campaign, I agree with that that Croatia is a safe country. So this is about you actually introducing autocensorship. No portal will risk having an administrator who will follow from 0 to 24 what someone will write rather than censor or disable the comments. To that end, you're actually making this bill of law, and that's what this is all about, as much as you're not happy to listen to what's coming from the opposition. So, nothing that we have brought out here is much more systematically processed by colleagues Rasudiæ, co-worker Selak Raspoudić than I have, because they were in charge of preparing for this debate, but according to the very announcements of this law I have commented on in principle this proposal in this way and will certainly lead to it and I do not know why you are going in this direction. And no one, I repeat no one normal here in HS, and I don't think I've heard any advocate who advocates that I don't know prevailing in Croatian society hate speech that it's allowed to insult other people, that it's allowed to call for violence or anything else. No one in their debates advocated that. But what you're going to lead to means the same thing as creating some alternative networks means it happens, for example. Facebook censorship, Twitter creates some alternative networks, alternative communication tools. This way, you will not reduce these phenomena, but those people who do not agree with what you do who disagree, for example. with certain actions of the state authorities, which are frustrated for this reason or for that reason, you will lead to them taking their frustration elsewhere in a different way. Don't let God ultimately lead to some form of physical violence. And that's what we need to prevent, judge and deal with primary education. That's why I'm always more prone, and when we talk, I don't know about the ban on certain symbols, everything else more prone to education. So because simply by banning you from a particular term or a particular symbol, you make certain attitudes particularly attractive to younger generations so that simply only education is the only way. No law like this. Here's what my colleagues said, I won't support it, but neither is the club, but that's already said in our debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32337	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32338	My dear fellow Thunderbolt, I bent down a little bit to make you hear better. So, he did not interpret the Prime Minister or interpret himself, but even the professors of the Faculty of Law in the statements of certain politicians following the attacks on the Bane Courts and the wounded of the Croatian police officer assessed with hate speech and statements that contribute to the rise of tension in society and their polarisation. People holding weapons, people holding weapons because they don't trust the system. Some ministers are not punished, so it is not surprising that individuals with weapons react. I honestly don't even know who said it, but I do know that law professors commented on those statements by our politicians. So, as for the definition of hate speech, this is an article of the 10th European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, which defines the right to expression, but speaks of the limitations that are necessary for a greater reason in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32339	Thank you. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Hood: Which are the reasons it writes there. Now we don't have time to discuss it.]] The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32340	You're talking about MP Penavi. It's your former mayor, one of the key people of your party. I watched that whole show of his. So when you look at it in context, it's not a problem. But at that point, he's not the smartest. That's where we agree. But I didn't take his act as an excuse for violence. He said you could understand that. So I'm not his lawyer. Besides, it's your ex-party colleague. But I didn't hear anyone justify that act. So, and the Prime Minister claimed that this was some kind of terrorism behind which certain party groups stand. These were such heavy accusations, so what are the same as what we have now we saw the other day what he was referring to the Bridge. So it just shows us that we're on the right track and we're not for sale. We're not Milan Bandic. We're not Zeljko Kerum. We can't be bought, so we understand these reactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32341	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32342	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmoy repression against portals would not certainly be revealed that most county judges, 5 in Split seem to me to be at the ball now the corona ball with Željko Kerum and of course these portals will now have a huge pressure "cadiya and suing, cadija and suing". After all, so far we've been, I've said my attitude towards Stjepan Mesic and I've set up an example of his office being taken away and I've said certain things that I'm standing behind. I was sued by Stipe Mesic. Of course they will be witnesses, his advisers Bozinovic, Marijana Petir, his right-hand man in the campaign, these people from this government, the main Mesic people will be witnesses. But the man sued me. So there's always the possibility of suing someone who's telling the truth or not telling the truth. I've never sued anyone, although right now this huge pressure on the media and these penalties on the portals will cause chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32343	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32344	Dear fellow Bull, yes, people think that MPs are protected as face bears. I actually want things to get absurd here when I ask you to take off my parliamentary immunity. You know why? Because they can sue me now. I'm in court with Mr. Pripouz for what I said. I'm in court with a colleague of ours who wants a quick recovery of Ranko Ostojić. So you can see that even MPs are not protected from what they're saying, and I think we should. The only weapon, the only tool we have that we can talk here about citizens' problems so we can talk about something that citizens can't talk about. But it's not just that, pal Bull. Did you know that this morning's list was sent to the morning list for an interview that I gave. I made a statement behind the stand, and the morning paper had to pay the fine because the journalist just passed on my words? That's the kind of society we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32345	Thank you very much. We will now have the next debate, and it will be of the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic. [[And now they're making us even more strict laws.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32346	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable minister, the chief of the Zvonaric sector. We have before us the adoption of a new Law on Electronic Media. It is not news that the role of the media in everyday life is very important, especially in these difficult circumstances. That is why we need to enable the media industries in Croatia but without lowering standards. The fundamental role of this new Law is to adapt electronic media to new modern circumstances. Unlike traditional media such as radio and television, which are already fairly regulated by law, these new media like Internet portals and social networks are not so far. Social networks do not have editorially shaped content or their editors, so they do not have any responsibility for content. As such, they are not part of the media laws and will not be regulated by this law, yet they represent a specific gray zone that has a rare impact on the healthy development of society, but their regulation should primarily be addressed by EU-level regulations. On the other hand, internet portals are already partially decorated by the old Law on Electronic Media, and now they want to find appropriate instruments to regulate user content that promotes violence, hatred, crimes of terrorism, crimes related to child pornography and crimes related to racism and xenophobia. No one should mind supporting those media who fulfill their public role and guarantee credibility, professionalism and are responsible for their content. Also, no one should mind developing the highest professional media standards through finding appropriate instruments. Media workers represent important associates and legislators, but also to all and the people, and their work does not want to be difficult or to prevent the freedom and independence of the media. The point is, we all invest professionally together in content that is of public interest. The electronic media law lays down the responsibility of providers of electronic publications in the same way as the responsibilities of service providers on radio and television, that means that there is an editorial responsibility on Internet portals for published and signed text as well as for comments which are an integral part of this text. If there are comments about inappropriate content or comments with elements of hate speech, it is necessary to remove or prevent their further visibility. As the published text itself complies with certain norms, such must be the comment that continues on it. This promotes culture and abstention from inappropriate rhetoric. The censorship is unfounded to call a procedure in which a legislator, together with Internet service providers, tries to prevent the spread of harmful and potentially dangerous content generated by its users because such online users quickly acquire their followers and harmful or inappropriate content is virtually spreading further. The emphasis of this law is on raising the quality of the media and suppressing hate speech in all its forms. In addition to supervision based on violations and penalties, it is equally important to invest in media literacy as an instrument of self-regulatoryism on which a major emphasis has been made in recent years. If young people are constantly taught how to consume media in the modern environment, we will get adults who will know the values and quality of content, and then generations that are known to fit the approach in content. Only investment in technology is not enough without promoting a tolerant and responsible way of communication, and this is a common role not only of the legislator and the media but of our entire society as a whole. By observing the new law on this side, it is clear that it is going towards positive changes and the placement of reliable and timely information and preventing potential damages that all those operating in the public space should advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32347	We have two replicas, please remain. The first is the respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. My freedom and your freedom are conditioned by the freedom of all people around us, also democracy and freedom of speech does not mean that we can speak and do everything we want without responsibility for the same. If on the street we call for violence, hatred or pedophile we commit a criminal act that can be prosecuted for, but in this case, if in comments on a particular portal under some anonymous pseudonym we speak and comment in the same way we call for hate or crime at this time no one is responsible and it is not good. It is precisely the proposal of this law that enables it not to happen and that those who do so, or that, at that moment, the owner of the portal must react and be responsible. For this reason, we believe that this proposal is justified because there can be no irresponsibility for what has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32349	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32350	Thank you, colleague Jelkovac. Exactly, no one can object, as people would say, to what they did, which is already responsible under the Penal Code, so it's really a step in this law to allow and to create instruments, to create a framework so that such inappropriate content can be removed and punished by whoever put such content.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32351	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32352	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, Grba Bujevic, I think you've made an extremely good point in your debate, the media is our important ally not to get the impression that we're doing this against the media or that we're against the media. In fact, they are very important especially in promoting both rights and justice and detecting a number of irregularities, which we must also admit. But on the other hand, they must be responsible if they work in everything that is written, whether they write about some discrimination, and many colleagues and I personally experienced different discrimination over my political beliefs, because of my actions. What effect not only on me as a person and my family but also on children is there on minor children, so I think each of us should be very good at keeping track of when he calls his colleague unfounded whether it may have consequences if not on him on his family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32353	The answer of the respected representative, Grba Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32354	So is colleague Juričev Martinchev, which is why it is important that we all work together a lot, which is the most important thing, that we all work on that media literacy that we said that one day we would have on one side, a journalistic side, but also on our side of the political side of any one who has the possibility of speaking in public space that we are all more toleranceous and that we all actually respect the person we talk about and that we do not tell the truth. That might be the most important thing after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32355	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32356	Good evening, everyone. Under the conditions of the covid crisis, this law should first and foremost reflect the fact that in Croatia, the number of jobs in the media that have been predestined and insecure, that the material conditions of production of media content have been demoted today, in fact, the first and primary interest of this law should be the preservation of editorials, production plants, news and media jobs, as well as strengthening the full meaning of the material conditions of production of news and generally existential conditions of workers. The Ministry of Culture and Media passed a law that did not address these problems or tried to solve them because no analysis of the situation in the media has been made, a strategy based on media and journalism problems has not been adopted, nor has the roof law been first passed to the media, meaning the Media Law. Otherwise, technological development suggests that today all media are more or less electronic, so this division can also be questioned. Trade unions which should address these problems and which these problems address themselves in this law are called stakeholders. It's something left we have to admit from previous laws, it's nothing new. But Article 33. It literally reads as follows: "State bodies and their representatives, and trade unions and different stakeholders must not affect the broadcaster and/or radio as regards the creation of an audio visual or radio programme. So, we put the unions aside yellow unions mostly advocate labour rights, jobs, workers, for public good, so there should certainly be the task of this law in this covid crisis. While this article gives the impression that trade unions are literally one of the stakeholders, they should also be limited to the impact on editors and the audio visual programme, which is practically the only method of combat at the time of the strike. This isn't the only article that does it. In many other situations, the union struggle in Croatia is also criminalised. This law, on the other hand, is really an illustration of the influence of stakeholders. So you have an article 31, problematic item 8, which allows publishers to change the programming base of their programme to up to 9% without having to seek the consent of the Electronic Media Council. Items 6 and 8 are allowed for publishers in unlimited proportions, which means up to 100% change the programming base and for two years after receiving concessions. Furthermore, Article 43 clearly allows under pressure from private media to reduce the obligation to publish local news and concession notices with 10% so far to only 4, 5 or 7%. In addition to losing the possibility of informing about local topics, these local environments will be affected again by cancellations and job closures. In addition, Article 44. The obligation of its own production, it is here undefined, it is something of the previous law but has been warned and the HND has warned that this should have changed. The rest means the same as in the current law. The existing provisions on their own production do not oblige publishers to produce in Croatian or in Croatia. I can count programs that are fully implemented outside Croatia in a foreign language which international television companies are using. The specific problem is, of course, the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media Articles 70 and 71, which does not increase, therefore for the financing of quality journalism or the fund has grown, and the fund should be increased and projected by at least 120 million kuna per year. But now the door is open to both commercial and market-oriented media. I note that the Workers' Front also referred the Tax Act to digital services in the procedure which could, say, refund this amount. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32357	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Minister. I welcome your first openness to consider the proposals put forward in this debate which you actively participate in although in these late nights you have explained the government's position especially on Article 93 but also on some other topics, for example that this law does not regulate social networks, that our citizens can be absolutely calm, that mail is still non-injurious, that no one will see the messages, text, whats up etc. We're approaching the end of the debate, so I'd like to make three concrete proposals. Consider also the plurality of this House of course and plurality and our ruling coalition. I would like to propose the first in Article 3 to add one paragraph, which would indicate the identity of the family, i.e. the personal perception of the genus. on socially-formed roles, activities and characteristics that society considers appropriate for women or men by making gender and gender identity inseparable from sex and biological giving. There were also opposition but also part of the ruling majority that opened the topic. It should be said that this is a term used and in the previous law and in other laws, but of course when writing a new law of opportunity is to and specify it is at the very end of our role. So I think it's possible and necessary to do it in this case. As for Article 14. where it says that audio and audiovisual media services are forbidden to encourage, favour the promotion and dissemination of hatred or discrimination based on ideas and then says fascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian regimes, I would suggest that this be said on the basis of totalitarian ideas and then list, in particular, historical dictatorships that have either occupied the homeland or parts of our homeland or thus ruled on the idea of fascist and national socialist communist dictatorships and other authoritarian regimes. I think it's always been the intensity of the proposal, but maybe with this language it's better marked. In Article 71, it would also suggest adding one item on the promotion of patriotism based on constitutional values, i.e. on the values of the Croatian Constitution and so on. Constitutional patriotism. I know that some are opposed because they are afraid of such a term that they could somehow divulge the idea of patriotism, I think there is no place for such fears in the Constitution to say clearly that the Croatian state is founded on the values of the Homeland War in the ultimate line there is no reason to fear the Constitution, we have all sworn in the Croatian Constitution, and that is why we should promote constitutional patriotism or patriotism that will be based on these constitutional values of course on what I mentioned, but also on all the values that are mentioned and in our Constitution, I think that we should also promote the possibility when we write a new Law on electronic media, so we have the opportunity to add certain provisions, for example. and in this Article 71. As I have said three concrete proposals that you said so far, you are open to concrete proposals to be considered when preparing the final bill, I believe that they may not, not refer to the very core and the most important provisions of the law, but since in this debate, and obviously also in the public debate they had plenty of space, I believe that I can take into account the different views in one constructive way to make one contribution to improving this text during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32359	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32360	I'll only limit myself to one of your content proposals that you've made here, and that's the difference between gender and gender. So there's a lot of talk here about this termology, so maybe we should explain. So gender and gender didn't get the same way. Therefore, you can't make them believe that they are. So while sexual identity is obtained by birth, birth identity is something socially conditioned and performance. Therefore, it makes no sense to treat them as the same and to completely deny in this transgender person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32361	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32362	Thank you. Yeah, maybe while I was reading it was a little harder to follow if we had a text we could see better, and I didn't treat them like they were synonyms and I already said they were of different importance but that birth and birth identity couldn't be separated. So we just can't close our eyes. So this part of personal perception is recognised, but also objective biological facts. I don't think there's any reason to close your eyes to reality that wouldn't be good at all. That would be one ideological approach. So, you know the one if ideology and facts don't match that up by the facts. This should not be an approach that we must follow in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32363	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32364	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, today in the world information is one of the world's strongest businesses. Each of us as a human being, as a human, as a citizen, makes decisions based on the information he has. We're discussing a law where core business should be information. The information consists of those 5 W that talks about when, why, what, who and where so who, where, when, how and why. The fact is, in our media world, we have little information, a lot of comments. And just because we have a lot of comments, and a little bit of information is happening to us, these objections that we've been talking about today. And the fact is that politics loves the media and that the media loves politics or that one wants to influence the other and the media on politics and politics on the media. Why politicians on the media? To get media visibility to be elected. The media wants to influence politicians to give visibility to advertisers in these media. And to spend oxygen on something that should be solved deontologically, it's not in this law anyway, and I'm going to defend certain provisions that are incorporated into this law, but it's the wrong law. This law should deal with electronic media as such, rather than delontology of relations on the rules of the profession. I said, we had a law on public communications, so it became the Media Act, the Information Act, we should start calling it and writing a new law and calling it a roof law that should be an organic law that should be voted on by the super-half majority, which should be read by the law on public communications because the objections we talk about about commenting on and bearing responsibility for the comments on the portals are completely too much, completely too much because it proves court practice. If we put him in, we didn't do anything else, but maybe in the courts that decide on these things, we gave one stronger indication because in the second degree, that's how it is. Namely, we here need to talk about information, the information has only changed transmission technology. Whether it's an electronic medium is completely irrelevant. We can't have two, three laws that regulate one and the same thing in that delintological sense in that professional sense in terms of activity and that's what my message is about that part because hate speech is not a question of law, it's a question of media communication law on expertise. This put in the electronic media today is all the media electronic. The paper medium has its own portal, the electronic medium has its own portal, TV has its own portal, and we also have the opposite, we also have printed media that have their own portal in which you have videos. Today, it's just that today, a journalist is working independently on a working relationship and producing one piece of information, producing it immediately in three, four variants from agency news to five sentences on Twitter, and so on, that's what we have to adapt, it's got to be one law, it can't be three, four, five laws. And now to make a little joke, why am I talking about a stand-up? That's why the court rulings are now if they're not first-degreed, then they're second-degreed. We used to have paper media long ago, did you have the page of a reader's letter? Yes, the letters of the reader are comments today. But who made comments to the editor in the letters of the reader, and he was legally responsible for them? He was putting on what he wanted, and that's how it is. I mean, let's not reveal hot water and spend something that's evident and that's proven through court practice. Now this court practice is just being translated into this legal novel that, unfortunately, I think it's in the wrong law. But that's the way it is. And, uh, now the question of intent, now I'm gonna make a little joke if you let me do as much of my time as I can, you know? The question of ethics, morals and ways of communication, when you're fighting [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] You and your wife can tell her that in two ways. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] You can tell her, dear, if she lived in India she'd be sacred, and you can call her after one animal, it's a question of culture and communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32365	Thank you. Dear counterpart Fabianic, you have exceeded your time and will be replicated by a respected representative of Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32366	Your Honor, you will now have a chance after this replica to complete your thought, that first idea was my replica. The second was to ask Mrs. Korzinek, here she was still with us if it wasn't a problem to answer my suggestions. So the first question is, what about concessions? The second was the proposal to introduce penalties for art. 39 and third was the proposal that the fines prescribed should not be prescribed in absolute amounts but in percentage of total revenues... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32367	counterpart Pavić, the institution of replicas, is that you speak something to fellow Fabianic, not to the minister, but here you go, dear representative Fabianic. I've got a few more later, and I'll have a few more suggestions, so I'd like to ask you to answer if you'll accept that, if you'll consider these suggestions in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32368	Now I'm going to take the opportunity to replicate it to you, but in a way that I won't replicate it to you because there's been a lot of talk today about hate speech. I'm going to tell you a life episode where I'm with a Franciscan and in one society we provoked him to join us on a strip club, he was a Guardian among other things. And he came with us to a strip club. I've been talking for years. And I said you could look at a stripper, and he answered me God gave me eyes to admire his creature, and what you have insolent thoughts is your sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32369	The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Naj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32370	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, fellow Parliamentarians. I know there's already been a lot of talk today about a potential or actual breach of media freedom, but I'm gonna start with that, too. I think that this bill simply pushes the electronic media in some way, i.e. the portals and their editors towards autocensorship, because as the minister said in the opening statement that this part of the law should be further underlined, so I would like to further underline here that I think a little portal or editor will dare risk a fine purely based on its assessment whether a body will assess whether something is a hate speech or not. Here's just one example. If someone in one portal tells only one anecdote in which he witnessed a hate speech about how it would be treated. So it's just a very slippery area where I think most portals will still resort to simply shutting down comments and simply keeping it from financial sanctions and I think it's really bad here. However, these amendments to the law have other problems in my opinion, and these are the problems that these amendments further increase the administration of entrepreneurs and further regulate the content of private media. So, I don't understand what content regulation is. We have a situation here where here's just an example of the regulation of services in television service on demand with a minimum of 30% of European works. So, when it comes to service on demand, people simply choose what they will look at. So you can impose any percentage there, but in the end, people will decide for themselves what to watch. So we have, for example, a 50%-time regulation to display works of European production or, for example, a minimum of 5% of income that must be spent on Croatian works. That part is particularly unclear to me. So, I understand that it's regulated that the part where the state co-finances some activities to regulate it, so whose. that these are Croatian works, but I do not understand that this own income, if I understand this very well why it is going to interfere with how private entrepreneurs will have their own income. Further, for example, on radio obligations 25% of Croatian content broadcasting, most of which are 20% between 6 and 22 hours. If we look at the most listening radio in Croatia is actually what content it has in Croatian. So if there's any... radios that want to have their content fully in any other language or way, so this is not the only regulation. [[You don't understand.]] There are other regulations in this law, but not to list them all. Why don't you just let them? So we should sit down to have Croatia's radio television as well. Croatian broadcasters are being funded through a mandatory fee with over a billion kuna per year. Croatian broadcasting should therefore be the one that creates the main domestic production content in Croatian and which has 4 TV programs, which many radio stations throughout Croatia and which can certainly do more than enough. So there's no need to limit private radio stations. We also have some situations where there are other administrative obligations to television in terms of some additional financial reports or complications of administrative in the implementation of humanitarian actions. I think it's all something that needs to be considered until the second reading of this law and that the administrative part is simplified as much as possible. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32371	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32372	Thank you. So one of some of the controversial things in this Bill proposal that we most responded to was the request that the European Court of Justice makes when it speaks of restrictions on freedom of expression, which is predictability. Therefore, the European Court of Justice considers this notion that rights can only be restricted by law, under the terms of the law, not something called the law, but any regulation which has the quality of accessibility, so that it is available, cannot be some internal rule and which is predictable. So who makes it clear to every reasonable man what is expected of him or to do or not to do. And that's what it seems to many of us here that we have argued is missing, therefore, that element of predictability whether the media will, in particular, know in this part of the responsibility of the publisher what behaviors are allowed and which are not allowed. And that's what I think we need to clear up by the end of the second reading. So in the practice of the European Court of Justice, there are two important cases here that help us to distinguish what and to what extent the media is responsible for the entire content that is published on their pages, so including the comments of the reader, or the content generated by third parties, so to speak. In the Delphi case, the European Court of Justice gave Estonia the right not to actually restrict the right to freedom of expression when it punished a medium which had in its comments an explicit and very radical speech of hatred against a social group, but was done by the European Court of Justice because several conditions had been met. First it was commercial media, which is an important element. The second thing was that these comments didn't go away for six weeks. So, six weeks they've been standing there. And the third element that was extremely important for that judgment whether Estonia excessively restricted the right to freedom of expression or was not an element of punishment. The fine was 320 euros, 320 euros for one of the biggest publishers there, which is which makes a lot more money. And why did I just say that? It is important that we install these elements and those fuses into the law, and these fuses are not seen, for example, in the height of our criminal penalties. So 320 euros is not the same as 50,000 kuna, understand. And the penalties that we have prescribed here could, in the context of the European Court's assessment of proportionality, be considered disproportionate and excessive, especially when it comes to small local media, which may mean failure. And that's why we actually have to put penalties in the proportion of certain incomes that a particular medium has. In another case, for example, when it came to the case of the index in Hungary against Hungary, the court said that Hungary had excessively limited the right to freedom of expression for the reasons of the comments which were offensive in nature, which were therefore insulting and were harsh in speech, but it was not an equitious example of hate speech. And that's the difference that we must also make clear what an insult is, what an offensive speech is, what a harsh speech is, what a hate speech is. And I think it would be a good criterion to consider that speaking of hatred sanctioned when it comes to that hate speech that the European Court of Human Rights does not give protection under Article 17 means they are not acceptable at all, they are not considered, they are not considered at all. So that's some kind of limit we could set. I wanted to look back on the important thing about how much this law ensures freedom of the media. So one of the key things for us is that there can't be freedom of the media in the environment where we've left the media to a market where three and a half million people are expected to survive. They then turn to different strategies, of which one business strategy is just hate speech, and that's where they put their clicks and put their advertising on it, because they're actually left to that market. And the question of the Public Fund to encourage journalism is one of the key issues Not only to edit the media scene, but also the resulting political scene. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32373	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32374	Thank you very much. Here, I'll pick up where I left off. I think it would be good for Article 39 to be completed because it currently applies only to state-owned authorities and state-owned enterprises and to commit to both county and urban and municipal institutions and companies owned by local self-government in this article. According to the current provisions of the law, for example, the city of Zagreb or Zagreb Holding does not have to single out any kuna for advertising in audio visual or radio programmes of regional and city broadcasters of television or radio as provision of electronic publications. I suggest that these include county and urban institutions and businesses as included in Article 40, with Article 40 defined that the funds are shared through a public tender, but only in case they are secured in the budget of those units and institutions and companies. Article 40 is also controversial. The section states that if the 15 % of the funds mentioned are provided, they will be allocated on the basis of predetermined public call criteria. But the remaining 85% is deployed as they please. In Article 42, there is a provision which, in the opinion of the profession, may actually be unconstitutional and does not exist in any of the laws of the EU Member States and it is that local television and radio broadcasting is prohibited under the auspices of parties or independent candidates except during the election campaign. Also, this article leaves out portals, which means they can have texts of political parties outside the election campaign, but these portals are not left out of those 15% that need to be provided for local media. So we've got some problems. And now we come to absurdities that local media must simultaneously track local leaders into 30% of the programme, but they must not publish the emissions of opposition parties even though they have something to say to the public and the public is interested in their posts. I must remind myself that municipal and city council members, members of city and county congregations, are paid about 250 million kuna annually, which should at least be declared for promotion, and those for media promotion must not be spent because it is so prescribed by law, and therefore they are not equal candidates not only because of the inability to broadcast messages but they do not have the legal right to declare where they will collect signatures for candidacy. The desire to do less than one minute of information programmes in the law has been taken into account, but I believe that this may have gone a little wrong because it turns out that national stations have an obligation of 30 minutes of daily broadcasting while stations covering up to 20,000 inhabitants have an obligation of 58 minutes, over 20,000 72 minutes above 100,000 76 minutes and over 200 thousand 101 minutes. This is important not only because of the content, but because of the cost of the cost, because the information program is the most expensive, so it is also important for the competitiveness of the market. I also draw attention to the inconsistencies in the title, so I would ask that it be looked at in the law a little bit, because it is mentioned in the state, regional, county, city and municipal and some other level of concessions, and then in Article 43 it suddenly appears in Articles 5, 6, 7, 8 as local radio and television. Who will follow the number of residents and change the conditions of concessions for that local television and what I'm saying is not clear to me, but I think it can be looked at in the law and that it can still be applied and adapted to the needs of the law in the right sense of the word. Too little talk about tomorrow's radio, digital radio. In fact, there is nothing in this software section and the question is what about portals, blogs that work neatly and charge for marketing without being registered with the Agency for Electronic Media. When and how will they end up and, among other things, because about 90% of the face of news comes for them. The ownership structure is also mentioned in many places, but it does not say anywhere when local self-government can be the owner of the media, under which conditions it opens up the possibility of political influences on the media due to financing, co-financing and other types of influence. And I note that this has already been resolved in all EU countries. Among other things, it was resolved in neighbouring Serbia. I hope that through the proposals and suggestions that we will give both in the future and in today's debates there will be a version of the law that we will be able to raise our hand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32375	Thank you very much. Because I see there's such a big flight after a debate in temptation I'm still tempted to return that final draft of the law amending the law on enforcement, but let's move on. The next final on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mosta, will be spoken by the esteemed representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32376	Thank you very much. In the end, in the name of the Club, the electronic media law in the first reading, I hope the Minister heard what those who have some arguments are about to make some changes. I'd like to point out one more time that we can't reduce freedom, freedom of speech. That's what we need to stress. This is what is guaranteed by the Constitution, and it must not have the right exclusively to set the criteria in freedom of speech to determine power or to rule no matter who is in power. I would personally mention here, it is less mentioned that the media in the Republic of Croatia, of course, depend largely smaller and larger on advertisers. I, for example, watched a number of sports games that promote a healthy life football game and others to see examples that alcohol companies are the main sponsors. Or examples of you have even more rapid cases like that which promotes health that they are sponsors but the media depend on it, the media on it living in such a way that we should look at the aspect of the fact that the media depends too much on advertisers and so works. We could also talk about teleoperators, the influence of teleoperators on the media and others, those who have money that can influence through advertisers but unfortunately more and more... I think unfortunately this is so that the media depends on advertisers. So we can't choke the freedom of the media. We can't choke investigative journalism. I'm particularly amazed when I see the arches and banks of those in whom people have the slightest mistrust, and these are the judges of the county judges at the crown party at Zeljko Kerum. When we see those pictures of them coming out, I mean those photos in this pandemic, it's really the mistrust of people coming out of and out of that part. So media control is mostly freedom, freedom of speech is something that matters most. But the fact is that, through freedom of speech, we have a huge influence from the authorities mainly on public television, public services, certain portals... the ministries are working more on the impression than on the actual facts. So this... The mask is indeed an indication of how much more the economy minister cares about the impression of his promotion than the real problems he has. [[You don't understand.]] Here I would really like to point out that the government is not dealing with those things that you should be dealing with. I expect the Ministers that everything that has been said in particular about sanctions against the portals that you will take a good look at it until the second reading and that you will find a way for these portals not only to be addicts, but also to be addicts. I mentioned certain portals that finance only county, local self-government and depend exclusively on them. It's smaller portals. It's hard to find a good model, but preventing freedom of speech can't allow that. And I believe this law goes into what we didn't fight in the Homeland War to go into reducing the right to speak. Well, we Parliamentarians had more opportunities for the right of speech, i.e. Bigger in the last term when the rights of speech have been reduced to the MPs because let's just say which vice president doesn't like someone for a long time, but the people have chosen us. So the reduction of the right to speak to parliament's representatives was a matter of business in this House, let alone influence the media. The impact on the media and the criteria in which to comment, to download comments cannot be determined by law. Some things are forbidden and morbid. However, some things you here as is said and well said by my colleague Rasdic means you can't quote Pope Francis here so that it doesn't turn out to be some kind of crime if you said so. There's a lot of stuff that's been brought in through gender ideology, through this, through that. I personally think it's good here to discuss and talk about it, but we need to open up to... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32377	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32378	Thank you. So here again in the final name of the Green-Left Blocks Club we think this bill should be fixed until the second reading is primarily 4 aspects. This neglected nonprofit of the media. Then contradiction in some provisions. Then the ambiguity, where it is not clear exactly what the legislator is on. the legislator also thought of you as being insane and I will give a few examples for each of these once again if they have not already been mentioned in today's debate. As regards non-profits as well as the Croatian Journalist Society, we ask that this concept be restored in Article 3 where these basic terms are particularly related to non-profit producers of audiovisual and/or radio programmes. For example, when we talk about this contradiction, I will set an example of Article 16, which we also think is too much of, and which should either be thrown out or otherwise regulated where, for example, in this article, the 16 audiovisual and radio programmes and the content and electronic publications should meet the following criteria, events must be shown faithfully, and different approaches and opinions must be properly represented. Now I'm going to ask you, when it comes to climate change, what exactly does that mean that different opinions must be represented. Does this mean that when you have, for example, a TV program and then you have to have a page that says that climate change happens and that side that says it doesn't happen? And on the other hand, if we say that the facts must also be shown then it means showing all perspectives at the same time, and talking about having to be shown just facts means one perspective. So in the same article, this article actually refutes one another. So either we have all the perspectives shown and we have to show all perspectives even though 1% of scientists think climate change isn't real compared to 99% or we say we're just going to show facts, but then there's no different perspectives. In the same article, the publishers are expected to do both. It means they have to show meanings of facts, and at the same time they have to respect differences in opinions and perspectives on these same facts. On the other hand, Article 25, for example, states audiovisual and media services and radio programmes are not allowed to publish contributions particularly to immoral and pornographic content. Where the border is, which means especially immoral content, is not, is not allowed to display any content in the media, where it draws the line. Furthermore, as regards Article 35, it is not allowed to advertise political parties, coalitions and independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government chosen from a list of voters, for example us and for example city and county representatives except during election promotion. This applies, of course, to electronic media, but every few politicians publish here we now have published posters, paying ads in print media in newspapers past the promotional campaign. How is it possible for one to apply to printed media in relation to what applies to electronic publications, electronic media? So I don't understand exactly what it is that is actually trying to achieve, and I'm not talking about some advertising through the Internet portal through Google Edge, etc., all the time doing political parties, which politicians do, and some MPs do, I'm not talking about Facebook here right now, but specifically on internal portals of spin ads. As for Article 93, it seems to us that, yes, once again, hate speech should be suppressed, but also any authority must be criticised, everyone who is public officials must suffer a much higher level, so if you want an offensive speech that must not be on any basis, discrimination on any basis, but must be, we must suffer, so if you want some insults as public officials and politicians, as anyone who behaves power because it is the same because otherwise we will start censoring and determine where that limit is offensive to any speech. So it's clear what hate speech is, but on the other hand, what's an offensive speech certainly shouldn't be standardized, especially in this way. We once again advocate to choose the publishers of two models. Or unanonymous i.e. registered commentators Known information to publishers or anonymous commentators [[Thank you very much.]] But then editors filter their contents if it's hate speech. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32379	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you to respected MPs and MPs for their comments, for their comments, for the opportunity to let some of the topics in this law be clarified. Today, since 9:30 in the morning, we have considered two very important laws for Croatian cultural and creative industries, and the Law on Electronic Media is equally important for the development of the media in Croatia, electronic media, for the development of the media market, for the audience, for society as a whole, and it is important to enable that part of the cultural and creative industries to operate more easily in today's circumstances. There have been a lot of questions in the debate about whether the law is too much to deal with, or whether it's unspeakable, and should be further regulated. I would say this law is largely like its previous versions inspired by European practice. I am not only thinking about the EU, but also about the Council of Europe as the oldest European organisation that has actually built over decades of its work this legacy of different not only norms, not only international legal contracts, but also different recommendations aimed at the development of media in Europe. Therefore, this law, like many other laws, may indeed, in some of its expressions, appear to be inadmissible to those who do not deal with media legislation, while in some of their segments, especially where vulnerable groups such as advertising, protection of minors are to be protected, such as the prevention of certain practices. related to alcohol advertising, etc. It's very detailed and very strict. And that's something that's actually the most common framework of media law. So there's a lot of principle. There are a lot of issues left to self-regulatory, co-regulatory. It seems to me that there were not enough words about this today, that perhaps it is not clear in all of us that all the provisions or most of the provisions of this law are not meant to be sanctioned by any media, regardless of whether it is an independent regulator or a court, but is meant just as one basis, quality principles based on which, most often, the media itself through their own self-regulatory and co-regulatory acts will edit their business, and their approaches and their policies. Unfortunately, and this debate does not differ from many other discussions that I have and in my previous mandates that I have attended when it comes to the media, there have been a lot of issues that go beyond what is proposed in this text, certain interpretations that do not come from the text of this law, I would also say a lack of insight into the practice of the Council for Electronic Media as our main regulatory body, but also into the content of many sublegal acts, including recommendations and co-regulatory acts that have been passed over the past several years and over 10, 15 years, respectively. I would appeal to consider this Law in the second reading and that indeed rich practice. Everything is available on the Council's pages, so there are Councils in these proceedings and always in agreement, both in agreement and in discussions with publishers, much more detailed rules. It is our opinion that media laws must indeed be largely maintained on principles, principles and guidelines and that as much as possible should be left to the good practice of self-regulation and co-regulation. In such a democratic approach to media surveillance, I believe that the media will feel more comfortable, and the legislator, as well as those who consume media because they will know that if they can say so in a Colloquial way they stand in place. Finally, this Law, this Bill of Law, wants to protect the standards reached, and in this sense, I am thinking, despite the fact that there has been a lot of criticism here that we are taking decisions from past laws, I am thinking that what worked well in practice and there was no uncertainty in applying should not be changed and that this should not be experimented with. It is something that is even for our legislative system this type of stability is important. Certain liberalisation that is proposed especially in that part of linear media that have indeed been very standardized in relation to the media on demand, services on demand that have been completely deregulated, so this law has tried to make a certain balance, and in this sense we have been working with certain improvements that will in some ways facilitate the work of linear media. And what we certainly put emphasis on, which is the promotion of Croatian content, Croatian cultural and creative industries. We keep the Fund for pluralism of the media as an important instrument that allows a large number of media in the Republic of Croatia to meet their public service, regardless of not being public but commercial media, and we expect, as we first issued a public call for financing quality journalism last year, that in the time ahead and through European funds, which in the new financial perspective will for the first time have the means to develop media literacy and promote quality journalism, and then, unfortunately, in many other countries, national funding will help further develop the media and especially invest in quality journalism and in the development of a journalistic profession that is threatened. We will certainly consider all the suggestions that have been made and we believe that in the second reading we will come with a somewhat improved law that will be able to get broad support in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32381	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She's the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32382	Thank you. First of all, I'd just like to comment on something that you just said, which is that you've noticed that the MPs are not familiar with all the sublegal acts, self-regulatory mechanisms, decisions of the Council on Electronic Media, so maybe we don't understand the whole matter of this Law. So I wonder how some little local radio will understand it and whether it has the capacity to understand it and the capacity to actually... All that series of regulations? [[You don't understand.]] And that's why we gave you these instructions to explain things in the law itself. It's another thing. I still say there can't be free media if they're exposed to this level of competition. Were you going to, did you talk about establishing a public fund that would be aimed at journalists that would improve their position which is now the ultimate... and that would allow them to deal with better quality investigative journalism. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32383	Dear Minister Nina Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32384	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I wouldn't underestimate what you say to small local media. These are professionals who are engaged in this activity and are vitally interested and are monitoring the work of the Electronic Media Council, have no problem meeting their obligations as seen by a small number of warnings and a small number of penalties. We will preserve the Pluralism Fund, and as I said just last year, our government for the first time provided funds for the development of professional journalism within the framework of the negotiations and our position as promoters when the media programme, i.e. creative Europe, was finalised. We have advocated and helped to provide financial resources for quality journalism and for the development of media literacy in the next financial perspective as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32385	The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32386	Well, here you are saying that some things shouldn't change if the law is good, I agree. But some things should really change. One of these is therefore the practice that predicts that the public sector should spend 15% of its advertising funds on local and regional radios and televisions. This was the basis that enabled the great affair of Fimi Media, the withdrawal of money, the large amount of money from the state administration body and public companies on behalf of advertising. It is therefore left here in Article 39, where it is therefore continued with the practice of advertising the body of the state administration, public undertakings on local radios, televisions and portals. So why not call it by its name, why not make public subsidies possible, so local media, and not this way, which has certainly been corrupt in the past and proved to be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32387	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32388	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I would venture to say that you really misread that provision. It is that those mentioned in this article have their advertising budgets. And the intensity of this article is that all this budget would not go to the major national media alone, if it were to be directed to local media by a minimum 15%, so it is not any measure that would encourage any form of corruption, but rather the opposite measure that wants to encourage local media, besides one instrument that is strongly advocated in all iterations of the law... as roof associations National Association Television and Croatian Association of Radio Publishers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32389	The next is a replica of the respected representative Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32390	I mean, there's been a lot of suggestions today, so I'd like to hear some reaction from you to those suggestions. For example, what was the most controversial month before this debate in the Parliament. In particular, why wouldn't the publishers be allowed those two models? It means they have anonymous comments in a way that they're registered with the publishers. They do not have to be visible to all readers by name and last name, but if it is about hate speech or inciting violence, then the identity of the people who wrote it can be determined by the publishers. And then these people are responsible for what they wrote. Or on the other hand to allow anonymous comments, however, to be filtered by editors and publishers. And in that case, the publishers are responsible for that content. In this way we would somehow step up to world practices, so a Guardian has such a similar model and I don't see what would be problematic. On the other hand, the penalties shall be proportionate to the revenues of those publishers, not to profit or be equal to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32391	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed Minister Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32392	Thank you for this comment. From the moment we started talking about this legal solution and communicating it publicly, and there are more than a year we have instructed different examples. So that is exactly what you have said, but also other examples, so media that limit time in which it can be commented. So you can close it a few hours after the article is published. Some have a certain type of editorial filter like those classic letters of a reader. There is, therefore, some comment editor who approves of the publication of those comments relating to this article and which are considered appropriate. So there's a whole series of solutions. There are certain algorithms, however, they have their limitations since they cannot be included in the context. There are other solutions. We heard some today. We'll see to the second reading how to fix it exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32393	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32394	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Reiner, Mr Bukarica, the Honorable Minister. I'd like to end up thinking something, but I'll do it completely different. We've been in Parliament for over 14 hours since 9.30, two extremely important laws. What's good, that's good reading. And I really believe that you've heard a lot of good suggestions and here I am asking you to install them into a second reading, so that this debate is also very good quality. We've heard a lot of good things here today. I would like to commend all my colleagues here from the opposition, here are my colleagues who have been here from the ruling party since 9.30 and you ministers all day long I've been looking at you even though we don't agree on some things but it doesn't matter now. You've been very stoic, here you have been patient with us, so thank you all for today's day here at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-04-0.u32395	Thank you very much. Here's the nice words we'll conclude this debate and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
