ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57781	Following is the statement on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57782	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Croatian public, I will quote a young candidate by reading the HaK's pages and complaints about work in car schools. He says I enlisted in a car school nearly six months ago, waited a month for lectures, passed the first exam and waited a month for the first hour of driving. I drove the first three hours in one week and then I had a month's break again until the next four hours because the instructor didn't have time. When I complained he promised we'd drive every day to catch up, but we're still driving once or twice a week with him putting me in a two-day row, etc., and there's been a break in the legal deadline in the context of passing the driving exam. This example is only one in a series of those we can read about or can hear about if we talk to candidates, as well as with instructors themselves, as well as of course car owners. The national road safety plan for the period from 2021 to 2030 aims to halve the number of road deaths that were 297 in 2019, which was actually more than the previous national plan, while 193 people lost their lives in the first 8 months of 2021 on Croatian roads, which is 30 more than in the same pandemic 2020 period. These aren't actually mere figures or statistics, they're not or should actually be because it's about extinguished lives and hopes after which there are gaps and tears that are actually hard to stop falling. The government wants to cut these numbers in half. But did Croatia do everything it could? No, it's not. Croatia liberalised the car-school price market. By liberalising Croatia has turned to shutting down healthy competition in a professional and qualitative sense, and Croatia has left only 25% of them with a general rate of taxes that actually occupy one serious, one serious part of the cost of car costs. In addition, Croatia is the last nail in a case of quality training and responsible drivers by abolishing the Regulation on the definition of the lowest economic cost of pain. In that act, she did not open the market and make it competitive. That act actually closed the market and brought it down to a lower-price law only. Put your hand on the heart, we're all worth every kuna and we want to pay as little as possible. But what about the example from the beginning? But whether this sector that train us to be or not to be kamikaze should be so marketable. Should auto-school rates be actionable? No, you wouldn't. For example, you have a price of 3,000 kuna which is calculated by car owners whose only activity is well below the economically acceptable price. The general interest is auto school. Our general interest is not examples from the beginning of this talk, and there are quite a number. We have a general interest in quality education and driving training. The general interest is drivers who know the rules, have adequate training and reasonable driving and passing of exams and all in. The general interest is quality training in auto school, not the price of something we pay for just one trip in life. Is the general interest breaking prices? Is the general interest an unquality and unprofessional training of future drivers? Is the general interest in creating debt and closing the car school due to debts and opening a new car school to another family member who goes back to dumping prices? What is the goal, in fact, and the reason for the prices that are far below the economically profitable and ultimately where do those with extremely low economic prices meet the debts resulting from, due to, the same ones? Let's judge for ourselves. Even though the prices went up today we have car schools that advertise the driver's license as I said about a little less than 3,000 kuna. We have auto-schools that offer medical examinations for free even though they are not cost of costing car costs. How are your medical exams? Therefore, we need to protect those people who are quality and professional and everything else for Croatia is devastating, visible in the figures from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57837	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57838	Thank you. I think I will not address you as colleagues but as citizens because I feel probably as much as many of you here and moral and personal responsibility for things that some of our other colleagues say in this assembly to get 5 minutes of glory over the back of those who die daily in numbers of 25 at more, dying in covid hospitals. Agent Lenart, you're just a moment ago, you're just a few calm souls behind this assembly statement that the vaccine suits the spread of the virus and that's official data. With what? Stupid, dumber... I mean, I really have to say that because I'm desperate to see that both politicians and some self-proclaimed experts for 5 extra-Iikes promote false, completely invented statistics or narcissistic statistics to get on their popularity that lasts for a few minutes, which is expressed with a few thumbs up, and whose consequence is that people who have doubts, I understand, have some doubts, have some fears that because of those statements, they deepen, end up on the respirator, and some of them die. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, di-people are a dear responsibility because you're careful I can, I can even understand that you believe it, I can even understand that you think as agronomists know better than all molecular biologists, immunologists and epidemiologists of this world, that you know as an agrom of the Covid-19 virus better, you're convinced. But what I don't understand is why you have the courage to suspect that what you believe in may not be true or that it may prove otherwise, and that the consequence of it is to prove otherwise that someone will die in vain. Where did you get the public to say that? Here I am really wondering, not just you, there are others here. We have a situation, so today an analysis has been published in the Index HZJZ and analysis of the covid of Dubrava Hospital all, in the last month, and there are more than 25 who have died since Covid-19 were not sick, were healthy, under 50 years old, these, means everyone under 50, healthy without the comorbidities that have died, all of them were unvaccinated, there was not one vaccinated dead under 50, none, and that's enough for you to come here and tell people I understand your fears, I understand your doubts, but let's talk together, let's see really what the official figures are, which are official indicators,,,,,,,,, people who have ended up on the respirator and the people who have died have been unvaccinated all age groups, all age groups and it's not enough. That's not official enough. We must make it clear that the vaccine will not prevent the spread of the infection, but what has been proven from all these analyses of dear citizens is to prevent the most severe forms of covid disease, to end up on the respirator and to die. ... You said that vaccine [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] But here, I'll repeat, don't pay for the different selfish people who ask for 5 minutes of glory for them with their lives, don't pay for it with your life. [[Adversity Sanader: Please do not discuss each other]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57839	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57840	Thank you, Your Honor. Art. 238th Insultation of MPs. This is a unique precedent for one representative to address the other in free speech. Mrs. Bencic, I'm here on my second term, and I don't care about the likes of you because you're proving abnormally here and you want to be forever. For me, this is my last term, and I'm going to do some other business, so I'm not doing this for the likes of me. I'm just saying it for the truth. You didn't listen to me, the numbers I spoke, and I said, I never said that the vaccine shouldn't be and that the vaccine doesn't prevent the disease, but that it suits the spread as you saw the numbers. You saw it. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57841	You used this injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57842	You mean with your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57843	Please don't argue with each other. Mr. Lenart, Mrs. Lenart. It's a benci, ma'am. A little warning to you, too, Mr. Lenart, warning you of an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57844	Come on, give them five if you have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57845	This is what we're done with, Marco Pavic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Please turn off Mr. Lenart's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57846	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57847	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57848	Thank you very much. Injury, Art. 238, here's a real solidarity with my colleague Bencic. We've been on the Ukrainian group before. I asked my colleague to wear a mask. It is very important that we send citizens especially now at the height of the 4th wave that vaccination is the only way and that wearing a mask and all... Respect for all measures is now crucial in this wave. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57849	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was not, it is clear to you, you are being warned too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57850	Dear Vice President, I don't know why he's calling me now for free speech. I asked at that event, if you mind I'll put on a mask, you said that, I put it on, I don't know what you're afraid of me if you have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57851	This is Mr. Lenart's second warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is a respected representative of Radoje Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57929	... MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Through today's debate, I want to encourage all of us here in HS as the most important institution of the Croatian people to think, debate and act on an important issue for the Croats in BiH, about a worrying trend in the reduction of the number of Croats in BiH. Unfortunately, this trend has lasted practically since the second half of the 20th century when there is a large number of Croats from BiH from the 1960s to the so-called '70s. temporary work in Western Europe. At that time, the growth of the number of Croats in BiH was stopped and the trend of stagnation decreases practically persisted until today. Unfortunately, a real demographic disaster is experienced by Croats at the time of the Homeland War when practically every other Croat in BiH is exiled, driven from its centuries-old hearths. That the Croats are the biggest victims of the war in BiH has shown the 2013 census as well. Unfortunately, the remaining Croats in Republika Srpska have not returned after the end of the war, but they are gradually evicting too, so today we have a situation that in Republika Srpska there are few mostly older Croatians left, and the number of born Croats in Republika Srpska can almost count on the fingers of one hand. Encouraging the trend of increasing the number of Croats in the Federation of BiH after the war, unfortunately it was stopped in 2007, preceding the decisions of a high representative who practically abolished the equality of Croats in the Federation of BiH and the fact that Croatians have reduced their influence on the counties. It is a time when Bosniaks first elect members of the presidency to the Croats, all leading to a deep political crisis that continues to date and the end still unsupervised. The crisis has hampered normal democratic development in BiH, has made BiH's development and progress impossible. Trend reduction of Croats since 2007 It has continued, and unfortunately in recent years it has been accelerating further. What is the difficult situation in certain parts of the Federation of BiH will best show you some data. If we take the data for 2019 and 20., in Tuzlan County for one born Croatian child 9 Croats die, for one born child in Unsko-San County 7 Croats die, in Sarajevo 5 Croats, in Posavska also, in Zeničko-Dobojska 4, in my county 3 and God thanks a much better situation in Hercegovina-Neretva County, and is far the best in West-Herzegovina which has, according to many indicators, the best demographic movements in the entire Federation of BiH. Respected, with thanks to the Republic of Croatia, the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, President Milanovic, for its selfless and permanent support to Croats to ensure constitutional equality that is a prerequisite for the survival of Croats in BiH. These alarming data invites us to a national consensus on the issue so that together with the Croatian National Assembly, together with the Catholic Church, with the authorities in BiH, we can come up with a strategy, implement comprehensive demographic measures to stop this trend, Croats in BiH survive, and thus survive BiH. Taking these measures is also important for the Republic of Croatia to be safer and more advanced and happier both in the future and in the coming period. This should be done in order for Croatia to count on new Romans, Shukera, Blaževića, Dalice, Kovače, Šimunića, Čorluke, Gregorevica, Nuica and hundreds of thousands of others who love this beautiful Croatia with the hope that together we will find ways to respond to this great challenge and that we will succeed in stopping this trend from the welfare of Croats in BiH, as well as the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57989	The first is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u57990	Dearly respected, are the ruling aware of the Croatian demographic flood. The state statistical office published an estimate of the population by cities, municipalities and counties at the end of 2020. The numbers are more than dramatic. The latest publicly available data shows how we lost 273,000 people from our last census. That means we lost more than 5% of the population in less than 10 years. Some demographics estimate that the real situation is even worse and that the real population has fallen below 4 million. From the 2011 census, demographic losses suffered almost all regions. In the depopulation, the counties of eastern Croatia, the Slavonian County, those that have a fertile plain, the god-given river, the pleasant climate and the most beautiful landscape as long as the eye is around. Life space just to wish. And where there's a healthy logic then. The absolute political predominance in Croatia's public political and every second scene takes on every new day increasingly erases the plannedly controlled coverage of pre-war times and separation in which there are clearly visible individual worlds. Their imaginary parallel world of goodness and concern for the people and other mathematically calculated reality that is impossible not to see with a simple eye. I am in pain with this elitist tension and the ascension that is getting more and more pronounced and therefore I am talking about it from this pay phone because there is nothing left for me. The reasons for the general impression of Croatian demographic and other realities in Croatia are numerous and complex but are mostly all related to the way Croatia is managed today. In a spatial sense, in its Mediterranean karst, mountainous and my Pannonian specialities, Croatia is desirable and rich living space that it could throughout history wish to adopt mainly by wars, of course, from the same directions today but from other forms of adoption. The way Croatian and political associations are managed because of the survival and remnant of the government are the prevailing factors of emigrating Croatian youth. It is the political, subjective, clientelistic corrupt modus operandi that makes Croatia's national spatial wealth for Croatian youth less valuable than the mere security in the regulated countries of immigration they have chosen. There is almost no movement for the better in our society, and services, official numbers of economic development, social orderliness, financial stability, investment activities, demographic threats, emigrant separation, democratic openness and the like have impaled Croatia to the European bottom. It is not only a confirmation of the above mentioned domestic freedoms that dissatisfactions, but also of external independent experts and scientists over whom incarceration and control is not possible. The pattern of conduct and subjective treatment that we have been looking at for many years in Croatia cannot bring any particular good to the entire Croatian population. Political assurances by the Croatian public about the success of ruling policies are almost daily with always the same rhetoric. And the subjects repeat themselves and repeat everything spoken towards the top, of course. It's been pretty many years. In fact, the form was established by introducing into Croatian political space exclusively political governments. So from top to bottom, unlike those regulated states where only the government's top is political while the rest of the positions are placed according to expertise. Such an already uglier pattern of rule over Croatia cannot even form a different attitude than the subjective one I am talking about in which the corrections of conduct are impossible and according to statistically recorded negatives but are therefore possible according to the political feeling from the top or according to the assessment of the admiration of that summit. But we return to short numbers because the figures are inexorable, and exactly they confirm that almost 50,000 people will die more than they will be born in Croatia in just 2 years. For a reason, you're asking my people if Croatia is dying the way we dreamed for generations of seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58112	The following statement of views on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58113	Dear citizens, do you know of that film called Missing in 60 seconds, I remembered this morning when I watched Gordan Jandrokovic give me 3 consecutive remarks by taking away the right of speech on the agenda that became the subject of a bitter dispute between self-glorification and legitimate remarks from all options of the parliamentary opposition. But Gordan Jandrokovic didn't need a full 60 seconds. He had enough of six. It is funny, but also devastating for the Croatian Parliament, which as Parliament should be the area of debate, criticism and control of the government's work. I didn't enter HS to cause political riots here because I believe in my knowledge, in all values, ideas, the proposals I'm fighting for that I know I can solve the problems of this country. I am here first of all to fight for this vision of mine differently, better, fairer Croatia, putting before all of you and the Croatian public what I can and what I know. But when I saw how nervous Gordan Jandrokovic was living over the other opposition parliamentary deputies, and then he slyly told them from his position, from the position of the president of the HDZ, I quote "let's not send a message to the citizens that the violation of the law and the rules is worth it", which was the moment when I had to react and oppose it. There my not only business reaction was justified but also necessary and it was worth all the warnings given by brave Gordan Jandrokovic, however, it would even be worth getting kicked out of HS if that had happened. He then called on the brave Gordan Jandrokovic opposition parliamentary MPs not to make fun of the rules we are working on, making its provisions unnecessary. I will repeat what I have said so many times after this assembly speaker, not the parliamentary opposition MPs who have turned the rules of the Rules of Procedure into a mockery, but turned the Rules of Procedure into a mockery, a role and a constitutional task of HS. Our quieted Croatia was created here in this home. This Parliament where Andrej Plenkovic talks about the work of his government has no replicas, no questions asked, no comments, and it is about the mere praise of the government without any justification. Through the system of business rules, parliamentarians, and thus the nation, are told, listen to the presentation of the Prime Minister and bow to him. And it doesn't matter, dear citizens, that the reality in which you live is completely different from any of Andrej Plenkovic's speeches. Any reasoned criticism, any overstatement of the counterproposal is a cause for effusion and anger, which is what we witnessed today. So much for the new opposition forces is the brave and powerful existing power, and it does not know that it itself has limited its lifetime because there are those who are willing to be business insubordination and I am not in it alone, there are those who will not agree to be obediently silenced, as is silenced every institutional criticism, every institutional check, institutional control and control because yesterday, at the end of one of their superior days, Andrej Plenkovic has thundered from this pay phone that I am saying is no longer untouchable because so much has been devoted to HDZ's fight against their own corruption at all levels. And it reminded me of that famous speech by Eve Sanader in which, with the same arrogance that graced Andrej Plenkovic, it was rhetorically powerfully called to be shown to him by this vast army of HDZ thieves. But the important difference between Croatia today and Croatia from the time of Ivo Sanader is that today there is no longer an institution that could question the affairs of Andrej Plenkovic and his borg ministers. But our only problem would not be that Croatia is silenced but our bigger problem is that it has also gone demographically for a perceptible percentage of working potentials with better educated inhabitants. And the bigger problem is that when we talk about important national resources, Croatia is simply sold out, and the biggest problem is that compared to the crucial number of those who remained simply bought, among other things with those 25 billion funds from the eu funds with which Andrej Plenkovic and ask the citizens, and what are you supposed to be except for the rest of your silence? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58114	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Oreshkovic has been injured by an article. Rule 238. In fact, Mrs. Oreshkovic would have committed her own violation of the law, which is the rules of procedure, to raise the pedestal in the fight for the democratic rights of opposition MPs. No, Mrs. Oreshkovic, your persistent violation of the rules of procedure is so evident that your expression of inability to prove in a normal democratic debate in a reasoned debate that you are right And when you can't do that, then you keep breaking the Rules of Procedure. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And for yours and for your reminders, you accuse him who is the only one who is authorized to determine the conduct of this assembly, which is the president of the assembly. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58116	You've dedicated more to Mrs. Oreshkovic's replica, so you're being warned. Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, the esteemed representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58215	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll go back to the Fascism of the 21st century in the Republic of Croatia. New divisions along with all the old ones we had on Ustashas, partisans, left, right, not to list the others, to favor us dividing into vaccinated and unvaccinated. Pandemic marketing creates an atmosphere of lynches towards non-vaccinated people, they are today, according to statements by those who own media, responsible for all, for increasing numbers, but that is not how statistics speak. Stigmatize scientists, Stigmatize ordinary citizens who have not been vaccinated for certain reasons. We're lucky to have Prof. The lauc that is also stegmatized is one of the few lighthouses of reason on this long dark night that covers Croatia. So now it wouldn't be if Lenart were making up something here to speak against measures or I don't know what, I'm going to use numbers that are relevant to running a pandemic. Croatia 27.10.1920. 0% vaccinated, number of new cases 1413, death toll 18, number of patients on respirator 57. Croatia 27.10.In '21, it means yesterday's date, 55% of the vaccinated adults, the number of new cases 4571, the number of deaths in 26, the number of patients on the respirator 153 + of course many who have been over and acquired immunity. In order not to say that there was one day like this, I will return to another statistical data that says 1 to 15.10.1920 tested 71,248, positive 6,545, hospitalized 716, deceased 64. 1 to 15.10.1921, when more than 50% of the population were vaccinated, 127,761 tested, 20,000 positive, 1,300 hospitalized, died 221. So 3.5 times as much as when no one was vaccinated. These figures, and I repeat, the figures of the statistical, official figures, say that the vaccine and the covid of certificates that restrict the freedom of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia which are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 which says that no one can be forced into experimental treatment, and we know that the vaccine is experimental. So they don't prevent the spread of the virus, but as the numbers speak, they potentiate the spread of the virus. I'm not talking, I'm not talking, I'm sorry, mates, I'm not saying people don't get vaccinated, that the vaccine doesn't help with severe illnesses, but these are numbers. You can talk and think whatever you want about Lenart, but these are official figures... Whatever they are, colleagues Bencic than they are... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58216	Please don't communicate with each other, Mrs. Bencic, you don't engage in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58217	The second thing, the Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors, people do not listen to the profession, there is a charge, everyone who is angry about postponing procedures and diagnostic procedures should go to Dr. Lauca, according to his treatment, has no epidemic. The medical oath says, just some I will read, health and well-being of my patient will be my most important concern, I will not allow any characteristic of sight, age, sickness or impotence, faith, ethnic origin, gender, nationality, political belongings, race, sexual orientation, class membership or other factors affect me in restoring my duty to the patient. I know all doctors don't think that way, but those who have declared this a shame on you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58293	The next statement of view is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58294	Honorable chairman, respected MPs and MPs. So, in the government report, Andrej Plenkovic said that Croatian society is at its core a solidarity society. Today I'm going to talk about a project that he specifically cited, which is a project called "Peace", one commendable project, and I don't think there's any representative or advocate here who hasn't heard the commendable words about this project and about the people who are very well-supplyed to it, in fact some of them have survived hours and hours and hours and days and months of enjoying the care of the geronto-domestic. However, what is essentially a good project has a big problem in it, which is that after the end of the project, all these people have remained left to themselves and that is something that is inadmissible, and that was something that was known before and that could have been predicted in all the programmes of the ministry, and thus the governments can jump to a total of 78,799 older and powerless persons not being left to themselves. The project employs more than 14,000 harder women employed, this project and so many services, so many associations that were included especially in rural areas have been given the opportunity to truly enable both sufficient life and a decent age for these people. I can't understand how insensitive we were to be able to let as a society that, all the time when this project was being talked about, no one could think about when and when it came to an end and it came to the end of the project on 31 May 2021, then one of the other users who had not been able to report to the first competition, and then some other users who had not been involved had the opportunity, and those who had previously been involved simply stayed on their own. So I don't have much to say any further, it's just amazing how we can take care of the elderly and the powerless of so many people involved in the project simply ignore that it will be a limited duration and that after that we have no solutions that would allow for the continuation of that concern, especially given the circumstances of the covid crisis. It is simply so hypocritical to me that even in all reports, this project is known as a statistical indication that we had a successful government that it allowed so many people who were employable, harder to employ, that they were employed and that so many people were given good care. But for what long and what now, what years are we ahead of where you're going to lose people without everything? I just don't have the words, I'd like to pay my respects to women who are real and there are women who have continued to work and to care for those who have simply lost their help, and women have known these people because they are mostly about women geronto-home women who have continued to provide free help to those who need this help. Often, associations that unfortunately bankrupted many of them were also involved in continuing to assist, could not endure a year of default from the project itself. These are some sad facts from the project itself, but let people think about what to do with these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58363	The Social Democrats Club's position, a respected representative, Irena Simunic, follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u58364	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The theme of my presentation today is foster care. This way, I must say, it is a good decision that within a very short time after the Law on foster care was adopted in 2018, it has started with new amendments to the law because the lack of the past law has been understood, but I cannot help but wonder whether small changes in the law will contribute to quality fostering as well as increasing the number of foster parents. The same hope we put into the past law, but unfortunately he did not contribute to a larger number of foster parents, it is an alarming figure that in the last year, as many as 500 foster parents have gone away, a good part for years, and one part has decided to interrupt themselves, and only about cca 130 is new foster families. Statistics therefore suggest that 350 foster families are lost, and since there are about 1,500 foster families in the Republic of Croatia, this figure is then more than alarming. I'm interested in, in addition to this law, how the ministry will contribute to making new foster parents more, because apparently by law on paper, it won't be possible to do it like it wasn't years ago. It is difficult for me both as a mother and as a parliamentary representative to accept the fact that we have about 700 children in our homes today and that all these children cannot be placed in foster families, and we are all aware and we know that growing up in the warmth of homes and families is extremely important for the growth and development of each child. I also feel a personal responsibility that we all have to do something together to get these children and feel the warmth of home and family. Despite the care of professional staff in children's homes, no institution can replace the family. Also, according to the minister, we also have a grudge that when the draft new Household Act was presented, the whole weight shifted to raise their incomes in the amount of several percentages, taking into account inflation prices will actually remain at the same level for fosterers. It would have been much better if the minister had presented and sensitized the public what a foster family means to a child, how important it is to open its heart and home to children who do not have it. I'm just going to give you an example from my county about a foster mom who got a foster baby from a maternity home, and the baby is so attached to her that she can only fall asleep when she lays her head on her and feels her skin. It's just that it's immeasurable, that's what doesn't have a price and what the public needs to represent, that big work makes these people. But in addition to the Household Act, these same foster parents have warned of the many shortcomings in the systems and problems they deal with daily, so other than the Household Act, they must move towards reforming and changing the Family Law and more specifically regulate the rights of the foster home. In order to raise the necessary foster care to a much higher level than to do as high quality foster care as possible, it is time to change a series of laws, not just the Household Law. And finally to show you how small, and actually great things mean to one foster boy. I'll read you his words and what a foster family is for him. The boy calls her a super-family, listen up. "My foster family is great, everyone is nice to me. I don't know what it's like for other kids, but it's very nice to me, we play a lot together, we play, we dance, we sing, we help each other. In winter we watch "Sam in the House", all episodes, and we always eat popcorn and cookies, we watch various movies, series and documentaries. My aunt cooks very well. It's best when she makes pizza and pie. And my sister sometimes bakes cookies, bakes cookies with cookies, apple cakes and a few cakes, but with her aunt's help. I'm the happiest when we're all at home, so we play and talk. That's my super-family." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66988	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue according to the announced agenda, today's first item: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Minimum Payment Act, second reading. P.Z. No 170 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill, with us is the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Pension System and Social Policy, Ivan See. Yeah, we have, just wait a minute, we have a request for a break, a respected colleague, Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66989	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult again on what happened this morning. I woke up this morning feeling very generous, so I offered everyone at the club to order whatever they wanted at my expense. I opened the door, invited everyone else I met to order whatever they wanted. And when the bill arrived, then I hit my colleague, Nikola, and I said, "I'll pay you." Does that behavior remind you of anyone? Well, that's our prime minister's M.O. He feels generous, and when the bill arrives, he expects someone else to pay him. And that's exactly what's happening today with the Minimum Salary Act. Our primary goal, of course, is to increase the standard of living for our citizens. However, even the latest increases in the minimum wage did not lead to this because inflation has eaten this increase. We are all victims of an unskilled economic policy, spilling from hollow to empty, which has led to the fact that we are currently talking about a situation where most Croatian citizens receive a median salary of 6,000 kuna and cannot afford a basic consumer basket costing 7.800 kuna. So most citizens who live and work in the Republic of Croatia are not at risk of poverty but are already poor. If the prime minister really wants to be generous, then he must consider how to raise that salary from his pocket. For example, as the entrepreneurs tell him, he raises an untaxable share to 5,000 kuna. There's no lucky worker without a lucky entrepreneur. And if both of these factors in society are not satisfied with everything that goes on to harm entrepreneurs, the most will be felt by our workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66990	Before I approve the break, just tell me did Nikola pay? That's good. [[Intruder: All solved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66991	So are the entrepreneurs who will pay now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66992	Stanka is approved, if that's how the entrepreneurs will follow, then it'll probably go pretty well as far as I can tell from the story. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66993	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes, and it should take a break really in the time of half a year to try to react in some way and change the harmful laws that we make from day to day in this assembly more and more often. This is a law that will not do the workers any good for the 52,000 on the minimal. This is an anti-constitutional law because above all it does not bring minimum wage as a dignity salary, which is actually guaranteed by Article 56. The Constitution. He will continue to hair this law, these amendments to the law to statistics and argue that there is raised minimum pay to 50% of average and 60% of media pay, respectively. That's why I'm wearing this shirt, we promise nothing, and we keep it, that's HDZ, that's a party of truth from Alan Ford that promises nothing but it does. It's not hard when you set a scale on 50% of the media salary to achieve that, that task of yours. So that salary would be a dignified New Union has calculated it should amount to as much as 10,400 kuna. When you tie the minimum wage to any percentage of the average salary then tell the Croatian public honestly that the decent salary should be much higher than the average salary itself. And we ask Minister Aladrović and his deputies here today not to use the term worthy of Croatian minimum wage because Croatian minimum wage is all but unworthy and will not change so quickly as HDZ rules this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66994	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Buric's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66995	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out once again that the Institute is a minimum wage of extremely sensitive nature and that is why it must be approached in a very serious and responsible way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Plenkovic does. I would like to remind you that the minimum wage today in 2021 and by the end of this year is 4.250 kuna in gross amount, i.e. 3,400 kuna in net amount, and as Prime Minister Plenkovic announced before all of you yesterday, a minimum salary of 2022 will increase in net amount of 350 kuna and will be net of 3,750 kuna for 2022. That's never higher than 10.3% at the annual level, and that's a fact. In addition, I must also say that, in the term of office of this government, the minimum wage has been increased by 1.567 kuna or to a net amount of $1,254 kuna, which is an increase of more than 50% compared to 2016. and these are irrefutable facts, the results of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government. And if we want to compare that to the work of some other governments, then we should say that in the mandate of the SDP government, the minimum wage was increased by only 179 kuna in 2015. by even 11.94 kuna, which was an increase of 0.4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66996	The apartment is approved. I see a breach of the rules of procedure, colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66997	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. 238. Col. Buric insults the intelligence of parliamentarians by repeating that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66998	.../Intruder President: Fellows Peović, colleagues Peović./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u66999	...the salary raised by 50%. answer how many...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67000	.../Intruder President: Comrade Peović, stop./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67001	... is Croatia's minimum salary compared to.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67002	You get a warning from your colleagues, no insults from your MPs, and please do not use such formulas because it does not appear anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. It is your desire to deal with what the representative has said, so there has been no procedural error, you disagree with the content of what she is saying and it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and please do not do so. You're getting a warning. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67003	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia announced yesterday a minimum wage increase and, realistically, no one can be against it. The minimum wage in Croatia really needs to be increased, but what we need to talk about here is a complete wage policy. The fact is it's been since 2008. By the beginning of this year, the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia has increased by only 33%, behind us are countries like Luxembourg where the minimum wage is measured in thousands of euros. Countries that are similar to us to Romania, Bulgaria or Lithuania have raised 70% of our salaries. And why am I talking about this? Because the fact that wages are generally in the Republic of Croatia, and when we add inflation that affects us, the increase in the cost of life is clear that even the average wage is not enough for life, let alone minimal. Two minimum wages aren't enough to cover one basket for one family and that's a fact. And we need to talk about how to raise wages in the Republic of Croatia from minimal to median to average to ensure that in this country you can live from your work. This law will not help that in general. For this reason, we believe that the approach should be completely changed, primarily by a minimum wage, in a way that is linked to objective criteria from the cost of living to the increase of the average wage, but then by tax policy, income tax policy. A few years ago, when we changed income tax, we helped those who have the highest salary, we helped 1% of the employees in the Republic of Croatia. Let's change the tax policy by helping first of all those who have the lowest wages. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67004	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67005	The Honorable President of the Assembly. We are looking for a break to consult on this play, which today was organised by Prime Minister Plenkovic along with the parliamentary HDZ majority. Today, there will be a situation in which, according to a large HDZ leader, the prime minister will defend and discuss minimum wage, and the regulation was yesterday at the government of the Republic of Croatia. So instead of talking about what's important, the point is that people in Croatia live badly. The only statement by which Minister Aladrovic will remain remembered in his work within the government of the Republic of Croatia that Croatia is a phenomenal place to live. And it really is a phenomenal place to live for those who have money, but it certainly isn't a phenomenal place to live for 600,000 pensioners living with less than 2,400 kunas per month. Croatia is certainly not a phenomenal place to live for half the employees, so somewhere around 800,000 people who work for salaries that are less than the medians, so than 5,800 kuna. Croatia is certainly not a phenomenal place to live for 200,000 people who have total incomes in Croatia less than 3,000 because they cannot find a permanent job, which is because they are seasonal workers, for them Croatia is not a phenomenal place to live. And at the same time, the cost of living, food, directing, energy is growing. Minister Aladrovic, who is not here today, seems to have forgotten that he came from poor Slavonia, from poor Požega, seems to have forgotten how people live there and simply lost contact with common sense. I also advise him in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to go and see how people live in Slavonia, which has left over 200,000 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67006	Minister Aladrovic didn't come because he has a covid, so you know that the public knows he didn't come because he's sick. Now it's Raukar Gamulin's colleague's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67007	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block to point out one fact, which is that this law has not changed since the first reading to this final version except in art. 7, there's... items instead of numbers are put layers or something. So all of our debates in the assembly, all of our suggestions, all of our hours of reading, studying, giving arguments, the proposal doesn't mean anything. Then why this assembly, why the debate, why the suggestions, what the amendments, what the play and the game, and what a very bad show? I can tell you that as a professional, very responsible, extremely bad performance, with extremely bad lead actors, extremely bad. A show of democracy that is in no way because everything the opposition has proposed, all that came from our side are reasonable proposals. I don't think everything should be accepted, nor is it possible, but to remain exactly the same text of the law, it's outrageous and that's why I'm looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67008	The apartment will be approved. Now it's all yours, Puljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67009	I thank the chairman. Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, in order to warn you of one thing when we are already talking about minimum wage, which is that the best way to raise wages is generally, minimum and generally, to raise labour productivity. Real wages are created in production, not state decisions. I note that Croatia has the fifth minimum wage in the EU. Bulgaria, Latvia, Romania and Hungary are behind us. On the other hand, such as Austria, Denmark, Finland and Sweden do not have a legally regulated minimum wage. We speak of them as social states, some even say they have socialistic traits. In reality, it's completely different. These are economies where competition is harsh, developed, but also strictly regulated. In which the rules apply equally to everyone. No godmothers, no party friends. And with us, the country's ruling party has just been convicted of corruption, and in such a country, an economy cannot develop in which workers will have adequate wages and have, so that they can therefore live properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67010	The apartment is approved. Now it's my colleague Lerotić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67011	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club. Of course we're for a minimum wage increase, but we're not for this way of doing it because as already said this difference and this salary increase will be paid by entrepreneurs. Today we have a situation that if we have two adults working for a minimum wage that will be EUR 500 from January 1st, they can't even secure a minimum consumer basket. We have a situation that will have an exceptional impact on the textile, leather, wood industry, and when we see that raw materials prices have increased over 20%, that gas and electricity energy prices are rising, we already have some announcements that the question is how these industries are going to make it. Whether or not another exodus of workers will occur, and hence the departure of our citizens to other countries when we know that the main reason is precisely minimum wage. When will tax redundancies begin to be seriously discussed? When are we going to start talking seriously about encouraging industry, production? When will the promotion of export industries be seriously discussed? These are issues that our citizens expect and these are the only foundations for creating a healthy economy, not an economy based on tourism. Because let's be honest that this tourist season was, in some cases, a catastrophic question is what a state budget would look like and would the country go bankrupt at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67012	This break has been approved. Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67013	Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. There's a lady named Zrinka in Sibenik in Baldekintown. And Zrinka works at the cleaning service and she's at the minimal. And when the first increase in minimumers came a few years ago, she didn't even raise her salary to lip. Now someone's wondering how that's possible? She didn't get paid, but her work hours were cut formally on paper. He doesn't work for eight hours anymore. He works six hours a day. When the second minimum wage increase came again, she did not raise her salary or lip, but remained identical, but this time she worked four hours a day. So this measure that you've given is easy to play, or employers play. They play in a way that simple workers report at 6 or 4 hours a day. Do you know what that means? So in fact, we're the ones who did the damage, not the ones who helped that most sensitive group. Harmful, not helpful. Therefore, those who pay less or do not pay for full, full pension payments. Look, this is a problem that no one's talking about, and the problem is actually when we look at it the right way is bare because these people work equally, they work de facto for 8 hours, and they're reported at 4 o'clock. This is one cosmetic measure that is actually the PR move of this government, and if this is to be regulated there are ways, and this is not how the government of Andrej Plenović is currently trying to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67014	This break has been approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, then we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 5 minutes. It's 9:00.53. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.07 HOURS]] Just hold it until it's signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67016	Okay? Mr. Jandrokovic, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Minimum Payment Act is part of the systematic improvement of the minimum wage area over the last few years. After amending and supplementing the previous Minimum Payment Act in 2017 the minimum wage is firstly excluded from the increase that is due to workers for overtime, night work and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that they are not working. Furthermore, the system has been further improved by the adoption of a new Minimum Payment Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2019. The new law has taken good solutions from the previous one, and has improved the Institute's more precise and clearer provisions that have regulated the way in which the minimum wage is determined. All of these led to a constant growth in gross minimum wage, which was already highlighted in the first reading in the term of this government in total from € 3.120 to € 4.250 in 2021. Today, a minimum wage regulation for 2022 will be adopted at the cabinet meeting. which is the minimum wage for the following year, which will be increased to 4,687 kuna and 50 liras gross and 3,750 kuna respectively, in net amount. This is an increase of 10.29% and 350 kuna respectively compared to the previous year. From 2016 to 2016 the minimum wage has been increased in total by 1,567 kuna and 50 limes, i.e. by 1.254 kuna in net amount. For 50.24%, the share of minimum salaries in average gross salary from January to July of this year is 49.21%, while in the media pay for July this year is 60.19%. Intensive developments in labour market digitization, rapid labour fluctuations, robotics and the emergence of new forms of work, as well as the occurrence of Covid-19 disease pandemic during 2020. They have made the need to pay further attention to the field of work and, with the implementation of the measures to preserve jobs, access to the improvement of the legal rules governing employment. Workers who perform jobs that are particularly sensitive to the labour market due to the ease of complexity and the necessary lower levels of education are the task of providing them with an adequate level of protection without violating competition laws. That's exactly what the minimum wage institute is for. During the first reading of this bill's proposal in the assembly, most remarks did not refer to the subject matter of this law but concerned the level of minimum wages and the possibility of covering the basic cost of living. Although the level of minimum wage is not regulated by the Minimum Payment Act but by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation. The papers introduced by this law will affect the level of remuneration of workers working for minimum wage and further extend the criminal liability and strengthen the jurisdiction of the inspection. In the transitional provisions of the final draft of the law, sufficient time was left until 1 February 2022 that, if there is a need to amend the Labour Treaty, given the provision to which the minimum wage must be contracted at a gross amount. Added to the comments from the first reading, which relate to the exemption of the supplement, we would like to stress that the provisions of this law are in line with the General Labour Regulation. Following this, the minimum wage is exempt from any increase that belongs to the worker under the general rule such as an increase in the difficult working conditions, overtime, working nights, Sundays, holidays or some other day which is determined by law not to work. Also, the government has supported this law by intensifying collective bargaining and has shown full confidence in the social dialogue that we consider extremely important in regulating employment relations. The protection of workers is expanded by the introduction of supervision of the payment of minimum salaries and minimum wage increases contracted by a collective contract, whose application is extended by a decision of the Minister responsible for Labour. The possibility of a minimum wage contract with a collective contract of 95% of the amount set out in the Institute Regulation is that it exists in the minimum wage law of 2008. and which, according to our knowledge, has never been used. That institute exists as a job protection mechanism in cases of serious business disturbances, but it is important to stress that it cannot be agreed without a union. For example, in a collective contract for construction, there are provisions that allow for the possibility of a deterioration of the economic situation in the construction sector to reduce the minimum basic salary for the simplest jobs to an amount that cannot be less than 95% of the minimum wage established by a specific regulation. Any Contracting Party may also submit a proposal to correct the minimum basic salary in the event of an increase in the cost of life or inflation of more than 5%. We believe that this balanced law will achieve an appropriate positive impact on the labour market and protect the most vulnerable groups of workers, those who receive minimum wage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67017	Now, we'll start with the replicas. First up, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67018	While you from the ruling majority as a broken gramophone repeat how much the minimum wage has been raised, the fact is that 51,000 people in Croatia live with a minimum wage, in fact, and are immersed in poverty. They receive according to your new proposal 3,750, and the minimum consumer basket today is 7,800 kuna. Three years ago, the State Statistics Bureau said the poverty risk threshold was 5,300 kuna, 3 years ago. So before this inflation, before the price rises and everything else. Do you realize that here as a young man here today you promote a tragedy and you represent it as some kind of achievement?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67019	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67020	What I want to stress is that when you watch 2016 when the minimum wage was 2,040, 2,496 kuna, we are sure that it was not possible to live. There are no easy solutions, there are reforms, there are sustainable increases, and we believe that this is one of those solutions. So the minimum wage has increased by 50.24% since the start of this government's mandate. This was done in a sustainable manner in agreement with the social partners and at the input of experts. I repeat, there are no easy solutions, but we are sure that the material position must be strengthened and this is reflected in this desire and what has been done on the growth of minimum wages. On our side are the data, of course we should say, we do, we are sure that these are huge increases and if we look at last year this would be the second largest increase in minimum wages in the EU since Latvia. Only 6 Member States had a growth of over 5%. I think that says a lot about what a step this is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67021	Now it's my colleague Kirin's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67022	Dear President, respected members of the ministry, in 2022, the minimum wage will be 3.752 kuna, which is a jump from 3,400 kuna to 10.3%. The employers are dissatisfied, and the unions are thrilled. The total number of employees is one million and 600 thousand kuna. Five years ago unemployment was 13.3%, today is 7.3%. 7.3% are unemployed, do you have data on the size of the labour force deficit, how much of the number we import labour force, and how many domestic workers are unemployed or not working and at the same time getting different kinds of fees? When it comes to the social dimension, what they're saying from the opposition, I get the feeling that they're deliberately forgetting the property censorship, and they're only bound to Income census. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67023	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67024	Yes, HZZ is a public institution under us, as you know, and what we see is actually a constant reduction, and now we see a record reduction in the number of unemployed, or a rate of 7.3%. So, after there's been a change in the Foreign Law, we see that there's a huge demand for labour. This domestic labour pool we are trying to exhaust, but it is obvious that there is not enough workers that our economy needs. I would like to stress that today we have about 120,000 people on record who are unemployed enough to speak. And it's also possible that several data that speak about what's going on on the labour market, which is a record number of insurance companies or employees that we had this year when we first crossed after 2008 million and 600 thousand insurance companies. So the trends are that, positive, and together with that rise and average and gross wages. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67025	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67026	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I'd like to put that spell on the ground a little bit and not be anywhere between heaven and earth. In particular, imagine living with your husband in one apartment and having only one child, the birthright is none, but here to make it easier for you State Secretary, and to receive 3,750 kuna minimum wage, pay an apartment of 2,000 kuna, direct the phone, communals, 1,000 kuna, pay public transportation 300 kuna, have a child going to school, so that the Croatian people need Aladdin and that magical lamp and every month that three wishes do so and come out that they have what to eat, that that month have the last ride, that they have something to wear. So what are we talking about? So let us descend from this sky, from this sorceress where we live far from the Croatian people who are in great, great difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67027	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67028	To come down from the spells means to operate as a government under real economic circumstances. So, as I said in the opening statement, there are always magic sticks. And the minimum wage cannot be increased without taking care of developments in the labour market and the overall economy. Like I said, this is a really big increase, record actually in the Republic of Croatia. And when we look at the increase by 2016, they used to be really modest. So in 2015 we had an increase of 11 kuna. So this is realistic, this is sustainable, and I say again when we look at how much the minimum wage in the net amount was in 2016, or practically 2,500 kuna, I think it says a lot about how much the government's interest is to raise the minimum wage level and jump by 50.24% as I said. These are major steps, but based on sustainable policies and what is happening in our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67029	Now it's my fellow Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67030	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State sees that the opposition, of course, detests the greatest increase in minimum salaries in the history of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunate for increasing pensions, increasing average salaries, 52,000 new jobs compared to last year. It is bad because their governments have never succeeded, failed in much better times of the Republic of Croatia, and will resent whatever it is that goes for the benefit of Croatian citizens, but citizens are those who see, feel and who will know who works and who talks floscule. But what's important is to say that apart from this minimum wage, we open a story with social partners, we open a story of creating new collective border contracts, and that will allow the minimum wages to be different censorships. We already have collective contracts in construction where for the most complex jobs the minimum wage will be more than 11,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67031	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67032	So, right. When we talk about jobs, we should mention when we talk about reality and the situation we had with earthquakes and covid. It should always be taken into account that the government, by its very strong measures, has prevented a wave of layoffs, so the estimates were every fifth and every sixth job. Finally, over 700,000 workers used our measures to preserve jobs or practically every other worker. In the proposal for this law, I would like to refer to the idea that the idea is to place a greater emphasis on collective bargaining in order for the social partners, by example, to set up collective contract contracts in the construction sector and to pay higher wages than the one prescribed by the regulation, so that another group of workers in the collective contract you mentioned is already a minimum wage of 4.800 kuna. So we certainly want to put emphasis on social dialogue because we think that this is extremely important in determining wages and letting them determine other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67033	Comrade Selak Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67034	Let's not lie to Prime Minister Plenkovic once again, as usual, he pushed his hand deep into the business pocket and now boasts with someone else's money his generosity. And that we are not lying and that we are not creating the wrong picture, there is no conflict between entrepreneurs and workers, there is only a poor economic policy of spilling from hollow to empty that are victims and entrepreneurs and workers because everything that happens to entrepreneurs at the end of their backs feels workers and vice versa. One such policy of spilling from hollow to empty, in which both social groups will suffer exactly this. And I'm going to ask you something very specific, growth, inflation, oil price 17% compared to last year, so a minimum salary of about 8% compared to last year, before we could buy a liter of oil this year. Tell me in one grocery how much growth in minimum wages has made it possible for citizens to afford whatever supplies you want for citizens to know specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67035	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67036	So one of the arguments I've heard here many times today is that as a government or a ministry, we bring these increases on our own. Again, I point out that first and first of all, what you asked about the items, there is an expert commission that has given an impute on how much the minimum wage should go up. Furthermore, when we talk about the situation on the labour market, again I say there are a whole series of other measures that have enabled new employment, self-employment and employment of vulnerable groups, let's just take measures of active employment policy not to talk constantly about the preservation of jobs through which 5 billion kuna have been invested in the last five years, and 160,000 people have been employed or, say, a self-employment measure through which 20,000 people have been employed. So this is just one of the mechanisms that the government uses to allow people to get a job, start their job, and basically especially when we talk about young people, since you mentioned that they have a much better chance of integration into the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67037	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67038	Art. 238th Demeanor of MPs. The Honorable Secretary is not answering my question, I asked very specifically in one grocery, healthy enough to understand you tell me and in bread, in milk, in oil whatever you want, given the growth of the minimum wage, people can afford more than last year or how much power in a year, so it's very specific that people are interested in what they can buy more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67039	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, this is not a violation of the rules of procedure you know very well and you get a violation of your rules of procedure and a reminder. Now it's time for my colleague Majda Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67040	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State Vidou. So today, a decision is taken at the government's meeting to raise the minimum wage by 2022. which will be EUR 3,750 and will be increased by 350 kuna compared to this year. No matter how much it stings, it's the biggest increase on the annual level ever, ever. In the past five years, this government has increased the minimum wage for a total of 1.567 kuna and 1.254 in net amount, which I would also say a significant step especially if we put it in line with the previous SDP government which has increased the minimum wage for only 179 kuna. Now my question to you, Secretary of State, since you and Minister Aladrović are leading an extremely demanding resort, I'm curious what else you're doing about strengthening Social protection and security for people who have fewer? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67041	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67042	Well, I would like to stress that, in addition to the investments I talked about today, we are planning to invest more than a billion and 200 million kuna in new jobs in the following year, especially with an emphasis on those in the green and digital sectors. So I'd say it again maybe it's important that we look at the average salary that we have now reached 50% and in the media 60%, which was one of the government's programme objectives. As far as the average salary is concerned, I would like to point out this once again today means that it is currently at 7.110 kuna in net amount, or at 9,611 kuna in gross amount. Of course, apart from these indicators that I really want to highlight because I think they talk a lot about what's going on on the labour market,... us and the welfare system and the pension system where, let's say, the covid supplement is added and other similar measures that we intend to help the material status of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67043	Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67044	I liked it when you said there were no easy solutions, but it's shameless that it's a huge pay hike. So, this salary increase in Croatia cannot cover a rise in the cost of living, so no food prices rise, no director's growth, and if you look at how our pensioners live, of which over half live with pensions that are less than 2,400 kuna, they at the cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's register. And I'm asking you how a person who works for a salary of 3500 kuna can pay rent of an apartment in Zagreb for 3,000 kuna, not at all. And that's why they've been living with their parents for a long time, and that's one of the reasons why we have a low birth rate, and that's one of the reasons why people move out. Prices in Croatia are European, and wages are unfortunately Croatian and low. And people don't see any perspective in it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67045	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67046	Here's a lot of principles. Here's one thing I'd like to point out. So when you look at the average price of rents and housing in the EU regulated by Eurostat, Croatia is 41% average, and let's say some countries that we often state here in the assembly are at over 170%, that's an example. You mentioned the growth of minimum wage, shamelessly, I don't know, for example, the increase in 2015 of 11 kuna doesn't really work like this today of 350 just this year. And to look back at colleague Selak Rasdic means more than 10% in one year alone. So when we look at the whole period before 2016 in those five years, the minimum wage grew by 179 kuna, quite modest. And besides, when we talk about young people and their purchasing power, I would remind you that at that time there was one measure of professional training for work without the basis of a working relationship that allowed young people to work for 1,600 kuna, which is certainly much less than what we are talking about today and what we offer to the young people you speak of today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67047	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67048	.../Intruder: Article 238./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67049	Wait a minute, I haven't given you my word yet. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67050	The Honorable President was injured in Article 238, my Mr. See, you don't seem to see it. So you're too young to begin to justify yourself and get away with ex-government. So, you're a young man, roll up your sleeves, stick to your work, and do something about that country's citizens' ministry. Let's talk about real problems, and that's that people barely make ends meet. Two million people are barely done with the end. We need to talk about this in the assembly. And that's why people go away. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And that's why... [[Intruder: Thank you very much,]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67051	You get, you get a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67052	You're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67053	And secondly, about youth, we are all young for someone, and for someone old, so I ask that we do not judge government officials or other people by whether they are young or old but by what they do. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67054	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, and tears come to our attention when Mr Bernardic and SDP talk about social democracy, talk about social measures, and they raise the minimum wage for 11 kunas. 179 kunas in their mandate and now insult you and insult this government in which the government is now increasing a record 350 kuna. Yeah, we still think we need more, but we're doing a balance, and the government doesn't want that 51,000 people to end up on the street. Exactly what you said was that the balance between support for workers and this record growth pays that we are on average at 7,200 kuna and 350 kuna increases. And a great success while I was a minister, you were with me, expanding the collective contract to tourism and building a minimum wage of 11,000 kuna are in the building of an extended collective contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67055	Before we answer, we now have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Pavić, injured Article 238, insulted his representatives. So we're no longer members of the SDP. If we were a member of the SDP, at least we're not members of a criminal organization. At least we're not members of some organization that's convicted of corruption. Thank you very much, smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67057	My colleague Hajdukovic, why would that be offensive? I didn't understand why it would be offensive if you were members of the SDP, it's a mistake you're no longer members, but I don't know why it offends you. So I don't, I don't see any reason for this intervention and looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. A fellow Fabian?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67058	I took it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67059	You pulled, okay. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67060	Once again, Article 238, so we are no longer members of the SDP, but you are no longer the Minister of Labour, and you have been removed from the government thanks to your incompetence because you wanted to take money from the pensioners' pockets. That's why your party president Andrej Plenkovic replaced it, that's true. And the only tear that could be seen on your eye is her shift. I'm sure you didn't cry about how pensioners live today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67061	It's a second warning to my colleague Bernardic because there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but please colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, we're turning the debate back into, and I'm not going to tell the circus, but this doesn't make any sense. If we know what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is and we insist on using it, then we send very bad messages. I mean, you're all aware that you're deliberately violating the Rules of Procedure. I don't have mechanisms. I'm giving you warnings like this, but you're talking about yourself. And we're all together sending a message to the citizens that it's worth breaking the law in some way. Comrade Pavić, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67062	... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67063	Well, yeah, I'm not kidding. When you deliberately violate, look at you right now, I'll give you the first...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67064	.../Intruder: As president of the Croatian Parliament of the majority convicted of corruption, you say it is worth breaking the law./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67065	Please sit down, please get your first warning now...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67066	.../Intruder: Citizens./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67067	You get a second warning
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67068	.../Intruder: It's worth it./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67069	And I'm gonna take it away, now I'm gonna take away your right of speech on this wheel. Please sit down. You can't talk on this wheel. Now it's time for my colleague Pavić, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67070	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague Bernardic has injured Article 238 insulting MPs, that he may no longer know who he is in the opposition, but it goes to your polls telling you enough, but we are here today for citizens' sake, to increase the record minimum wage and to ensure that this is precisely by increasing the minimum wage to 50% average, 60% media, but also to ensure that this...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67071	I thank you too, fellow Pavić, and I invite you all to stop breaking the Rules of Procedure by seeking to violate the Rules of Procedure. That institute loses its meaning if we keep this up. He's losing his touch. Here you go, fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67072	Dear Secretary of State, this is another blow against Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen for the reason that recently there has been a blow to the artisan craftsmen, ITs, where additional administratively harassed polls and tax inspections are being sent that should evaluate these craftsmen by some subjective impressions, not objective facts. What's a fact is that we've been on the ground a lot and in Zagreb County I met a lady who worked all weekend, Saturday and Sunday and was paid 56 kuna for both two days. This is not regulated by the Minimum Salary Act and any social conditions that you call upon and what you should actually do, regulate actually supplements. I don't see that regulation has been regulated, therefore, work at night, overtime, so other things that aren't covered by this minimal and that a real strategy would be the entry into the labour law, not this minimum wage law that won't bring about the effects that you swear it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67073	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67074	True, the draft of the new Labour Act was put before the Working Group this week, what I said at the beginning, and I would repeat that the impact of this Act will be analysed after 2 years, so after 2 years we will determine whether there have been new collective agreements that will contract more minimum salaries, or whose application will be extended in accordance with the Labour Act. I think we should leave room for the social partners to negotiate these old ones, and as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, like I said, so the government has really stood strong behind entrepreneurs and will again stand behind all those who are in difficulty. If, if I have to do it again and I'm going to say, measures to preserve jobs, if it's not evidence and a guarantee that the government will always stand behind entrepreneurs and not let them down, I don't think that, I don't know what argument would be good enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67075	My colleague Troscott, I asked for something, I can see it doesn't touch you at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67076	Art. 238, I'd just like to talk to you, sir. 238, Law Study After Demeaning MPs [[/Intruder: What is injured in art. 238?]] So can I just elaborate, so you didn't let me elaborate? [[/Intruder: What did he demean you with?]] But that is now the violation of the Rules of Procedure, [[Intruder: So I'll give you an immediate warning one, the other, the third.]] I haven't expressed my opinion, you're always interrupting me, President of the Parliament. [[I don't want this, I mean this is, this doesn't make sense, my people.]] A Rules of Procedure Requires [[I'm interrupting you because it's clear...]] But, President-in-Office, I'm not finished. [[/Intruder:...to any objective observer that has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, that the Secretary of State has answered your question, to your replica.]] But I didn't express it. [[Go ahead, say it, I'll give it to you, if I judge not to, then you complain. Because this doesn't make sense.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67077	So now every MP does what you do, then we can't do it. So each representative has the right to 3 injuries to the Rules of Procedure, or to 3 warnings, until he gets a takeaway. 150 is a representative, times 3 is 450, so how are we going to work if you're going to do that, how are we going to work? Whether you care about citizens or about your own promotion, I don't understand. [[- He understands, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67078	I sure do. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let me at least say it, it's a democratic right, say it, so if you need to get me out of the assembly, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67079	No, I won't take you out, I'll give you a warning, I won't tell you. Incomprehensible/.../... [[Intruder: But on what,...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67080	Dear Secretary of State, Art. 238, demeaning both citizens and here we are in the assembly. And why is that? Two years of evaluating the effects of the law itself after we have already warned that it is not going in the right direction will lead you to the situation that 2...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67081	/Agreement: A fellow Troscott, you get your first warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67082	more people to move out of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67083	First warning. This, what kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure is this? You're polarizing, you're replicating, it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what you're doing is a classic replica, so it's common sense. Here's my colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67084	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would ask you to apply the criteria that you apply to all MPs to apply to the representatives of the Bridge. I know how uncomfortable it is to you that, as the Secretary of State has actually managed here in this debate, it has turned out that he can't actually defend government policies, but allow your colleague Troskot to do the same thing, so let your colleagues from HDZ, and tell him his injury to the Rules of Procedure, then, if he has broken his Rules of Procedure, give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67085	Comrade Thunder, you didn't even say which one. He's hurt. So you're not even trying to explain what's in the Rules of Procedure's injury. I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure? [[I'm not trying, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.]] So this is so pointless everything we do. [[Intruder: Yes.]] So we have a debate with the instruments of individual debate, debates of clubs, replicas, and then there's this one infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure that keeps breaking, persistently from the same MPs. And everyone else who doesn't, who keeps to order, is actually punished because you all know very well that two violations of the Rules of Procedure don't mean anything to you and you can function normally and I beg you, I can only beg you because the Rules of Procedure is what it is, that you don't do it. That we have a normal healthy debate as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. And you get a warning, of course. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67086	Art. 238 is coming to you disdaining parliamentary deputies. First, I will remind you that I have explicitly asked you what demeaning means and how it is detected as defined by the Rules of Procedure, and you have told me according to your own intentions. So it depends on your interpretation. I stress this because it was really, really embarrassing for me to listen to you yelling at your colleague Troscott over how you interacted with your colleagues on the other side of the assembly who also violated the Rules of Procedure. We need to sit down and fix the Rules of Procedure But please, don't yell at the MPs. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67087	Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, you are given a second warning. So, here's the deal. I mean, clean registration works because I see now that you guys from the Bridge want to show up as victims. She received one warning from her colleague, Peovic, she is not from Mosta, her colleague Bernardic 2 warnings, nor from Mosta, colleague Hajdukovic 1 warning, nor from Mosta, colleague Oreskovic 3 warnings, nor from Mosta, colleague Pavić from HDZ who has so far asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, has also received a warning and you have 2 and a colleague of Troscott and Grmoja. So very evenly distributed. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do right now. Here, let's move on. Come on, let's have some fun. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67088	The Honorable President of HS, Art. 238. So you know I'm not really doing this, but now I've really felt that I have to react. I think that the only difference, President HS, is in approach, so both colleagues Bernardic and colleagues from HDZ were able to really say everything, until the end, and then you, of course, as the one who has the authority and therefore the mandate, you gave the warning, and your colleague really raised your voice, sounded quite the same to me, which I am quite peaceable quite so terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67089	Thank you very much, dear fellow Miletic. Yeah, you even got scared, didn't you? Okay. On my colleague Troscott, I raised my voice because after my frequent applications and he did the same thing I begged him not to, so I may have raised my voice a little bit, and all the rest of you ended up, my colleague Selak Rasdić every time and my colleague Grumoja and you therefore only happened once in the case of my colleague Oreshković, but that is because I prayed and prayed and prayed, and you do not respect me. But here's why we've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67090	238, I would ask you nicely to begin to moderate this session. You interrupted me when I was just talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you didn't even let me finish, and I'm warning the viewers who are watching this session that this play has its effect because it leaves the impression that everyone here is standing on the side of these workers at the Minimal and that they are ready to raise that minimumer and these violations of the Rules of Procedures leave room for HDZ to manipulate statistics in each of their injuries to the Rules of Procedure. and for part of the opposition to be displayed as... [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful fellow Peović]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67091	My colleague Peović, thank you very much, I don't even know what you want, you get a warning. A colleague named Kujundzic has now come forward for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67092	Thank you, Chairman. You hurt the article yourself in 238, so if Mr. Zvonimir Troscott is not the choice of rectal alpinism unlike you, is he according to the prime minister, is he according to someone else? Let it be our right and you can give me three warnings, you can take away my word, but in a shameful way run a session. [[Come on boy, come on boy, come on boy, come on boy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67093	Look, you're below every level. And you see these are cowards who come, insult and then run away, and what am I supposed to do with them? But good is part of their culture. Let's move on now, colleague Highash Doncic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67094	There you go. Dear Secretary of State, I assume you're a member of the HDZ, but it doesn't really matter that much right now. So we live in one, so I have no idea, in a strange social system that's probably called capitalism and where it's a permanent conflict between work and capital. So what's this all about? It's just that you didn't just come out of some frames, out of some box, and it's okay, of course all the well-intentioned and healthy reasonable people will praise and accept that the minimum wage is raised. But there is a big difference between minimum wage and something called dignity pay, dignity pay for life, and there is an even greater difference between what is called basic income, so that makes it possible for people to say a decent life. So, as far as this law is concerned, I'm not sure even though it's a good thing that you took off Sundays and overtime, so it doesn't count as a minimum wage, I think it's still left in some gray zone that employers are probably going to be able to take it with a little slalom. And that's why in the SDP, I'm actually going to insist more on the next paper. [[Employment: Here's your answer]] on basic income. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And if I can give you one comment, please don't tell the MPs, but you... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67095	My colleague Hajdash Doncic, when the representative is rude, then I'll tell him whatever I want, whatever I want, and I'm only controlling myself so that the public doesn't want to hurt the public with rude and rude words because I don't want to go down to the level of such receivers. That's the only thing, that's the only difference, and otherwise you'd say a lot to him, that's all. ... Come on, fellow Highash Doncic, now you're doing the same thing that did this one before you. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You work, you work, you work, but that's why you have the votes you have, that's why your client's falling apart, that's why you have problems. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And as you think I can't, so I can come, a man can insult me like none of you here because I stick to the Rules of Procedure and I can keep my mouth shut, so where there are you imagine, so who are you, so that you can insult the most vulgar and brutal words of one of your colleagues and expect him to keep his mouth shut, so of course he won't, so of course he won't. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, I can tell him a hundred times worse than he can tell me, but I won't because it's not polite, it's not civilized. [[Coughs in progress: Let's make a minimum wage for people]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67096	Dear President, I invite you to begin holding a session in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67097	Comrade Oreshkovic, you no longer have the right to speak. I invite you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, so this didn't come because of me. I warned, warned, warned multiple times to stick to order, but obviously keeping order is something you don't think is important. ... My colleague Peovic, I am not arguing with anyone but only with those who insult me, and you will not take that right away from me. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's move on now, now the answer to the replica on Highash Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67098	I suppose you wanted to talk about the framework when you said about the box in which we operate, meaning what I'd like to point out is that we are really in extremely difficult circumstances, and in such circumstances, taking care of the balance between employers and trade unions, between what is possible and impossible are record steps, you have to admit that, so we're going back to the minimum wage we're supposed to be talking about today. So the goal was 50% of the average salary, 60% of the share in the median, that's all achieved, look at the average salary. So the idea was for her to reach 7,600, now we're at 7,118. So, despite all the circumstances that we're in, the earthquake, the covid, everything conditionally came out of the box you're talking about and recorddly helped employers, and I hope you'll admit that this record growth is a minimum wage that's not fiction but reality, a serious exit from a box like it hasn't been seen before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67099	My fellow Perky Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67100	Dear Secretary of State, since you say that the minimum wage amounts are acceptable to a decent life for those who work for it, and that is not a small number, that is almost 50,000, more than 50,000 of our citizens. And the law itself, in its argument, says his goal is to make minimum wage a social and economic protective instrument. Given the uncertainty that we are exposed to and the inflation that we are witnessing and the constant gatherings absolutely everything, and given that citizens are increasingly living from year to year, and that their standard of living is getting lower every year I ask you that our government likes to do this strategy, plans and programmes, do you have any advice, perhaps some kind of dynamic plan or strategy, a plan that would offer and give to our citizens and explain to them how to welcome not the end of 3,400 kuna but the middle of the month, since the average basket is 8.000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67101	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67102	I repeat, so the idea is to strengthen the material position of workers on minimum wage. What I have stated is that we need to catch a balance between what employers can and what is needed to strengthen that material position. I'm saying again, so it must be easier to get over what you're saying from 3,750 kuna than at 2,496 as much as it was in the net amount of 2016. This growth is recordable, but it is sustainable and needs to be taken into account. We will, of course, monitor the effects throughout all these years and we will always intervene if we see certain challenges, and when you say plan and program, I quote you to my last answer. We have made clear in the plan of work, in the government's programme of what we want to achieve. And what I'm trying to say to you today is that we've achieved it and we're probably going to break those goals down further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67103	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67104	Given the announcements from individual industries that come in view of the various increases in raw materials and energy and now the increase in minimum wages is put under question whether they will be able to serve their obligations. If I cannot serve my obligations, then the jobs will also come under the name of the questionnaire. If jobs come under the sign of the questionnaire, measures will be activated to preserve jobs, or we are spinning in a vicious circle. So I wonder if these are the sustainable policies you refer to?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67105	Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Vojčak Bilic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67106	Thank you, but I'm sorry, I picked up the replica just before, but here it is not registered. Secretary of State didn't answer my question at all, so I didn't ask you...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67107	A colleague of the Perky Billic, which is, where is...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67108	...I'm sorry, otherwise I don't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67109	... don't you, stop, where's the injured Rules of Procedure, what article, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67110	Article 238, I didn't get...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67111	What in Article 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67112	I didn't get an answer to my question, I didn't ask about the government's strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67113	You didn't get an answer to your question and that's why you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67114	Yes, I asked about the strategy to welcome the end of the month with 3,400 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67115	You can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Have a seat, you get a warning. Now it's time to respond to the replica, please. You answered, you answered so yes, then it's time for the replica of colleague Ban Vlahek, please... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, here's the answer to the line. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67116	So it was a question of whether we're spinning in a vicious circle or if there's a wave of layoff that we've never recorded before when the minimum wage is raised, we're not spinning around in a vicious circle, but we're going to try to create an extra value. I draw attention to the National Resistance and Recovery Plan through which only our portfolio in the next 2 years, in the next period, envisioned investments of 2 billion kunas of the labour market or social care system, and next year we foresee a standard investment in active employment policy measures just to create new high-quality jobs that will also enable high wages. We are doing this through active employment policy measures and I would only say that in this area we have been quite successful lately, bearing on record low unemployment and growth in these salaries. So this data suggests that we do not turn around in a vicious circle but that we move forward, and the contribution is to assess GDP growth for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67117	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67118	Dear Secretary of State, we welcome the improvements in the law whatever miserable it is because it benefits workers who receive minimum wage. However, there is a need to continue the increase in the amount to at least reach the EU average. We all know that wage growth must be monitored and productivity growth. So everyone's goal is to pay as much as they can because we want to keep people. However, wage increases require the same productivity growth, if this cannot be achieved, and such a huge productivity growth is very difficult to achieve then companies will not be left with the latter but to either cut investments or reduce production or reduce the number of employees. Therefore, you need to give employers so that they can pay an increase in salary, cancel the maximum number of parafiscal duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67119	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67120	As for our workforce and its, say, skills set, and we make sure that we increase productivity, but also as I said the skills our workforce owns to make it more competitive. This was predicted by new, new measures within the NPO, but also by the measures I mentioned at the beginning that over the last 5 years 100,000 workers have participated in active employment policies, help them to be more competitive, productive and to get some new skills that will improve their position on the labour market and productivity in the workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67121	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67122	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, according to the data, 52,000 people are currently receiving a minimum wage compared to earlier data from 3 years ago when that amount was, in fact, a figure of 73,000 people who received a minimum wage. The government sees this as a success, but it should be noted that apart from this difference of 21,000 people, there are even more people who pay more than the minimum for just a few kunas, for example. in the Borovo factory whose employer is the state right now, where the salary is higher than only 8 to 26 kuna, while at the same time the chairman of the administration has a salary of 18,000 kuna. The state as an employer allows and does not see the problem as it has not seen the problem in the default of the minimum salaries of the workers of Orjava, whose owner is also the state, and this factory is currently in bankruptcy. What kind of message does the state send to entrepreneurs with such managements that everything is just not a good master? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67123	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67124	As far as specific employers are concerned, I don't think it's appropriate for me to enter these business decisions personally. What I am sure is that everyone wants to keep a quality worker, and if conditions are created for that, I believe that in all sectors of pay growth, I repeat again we see that there is a need to strengthen the material position of workers on minimum wage, we also see that the number of workers on minimum wage is reduced, which is an additional encouraging indicator by 20,000 if I am not wrong. Therefore, I believe that, especially through collective bargaining, the number of those who will agree on a more favourable minimum wage will increase. As far as concrete employers are concerned, I would not enter into their business policy or their business that probably affects the level of wages that administrations make to workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67125	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67126	Here it is, I'm going back to the subject of this law because it seems that neither you nor it suits you, and not a part of the opposition is going to talk about this law. So I'm going to ask you two questions, why are you introducing new exceptions to minimum wage payments? It means that minimum wage can be paid in a small amount. Why don't you regulate the supplements and leave in the Minimum Salary Act again the opportunity for the employer to pay minimum wage even though the worker is doing extra work, means overtime, holiday work, Sundays etc. And why aren't you actually doing anything? In that sense, I'm going to give you this shirt, and I think you're a pretty HDZ member who could wear this shirt that I'm wearing today in honor of you, which means I don't promise anything and we keep it. This law promises nothing, nothing meets and I'll give you this shirt in that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67127	Here's your answer. You're welcome to respond, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67128	Okay, okay, thanks for the present. Let's go back to the proposal for this law, what I want to say is that it is tax-based that the increases are possible within the framework of the general rules on work and this proposal we bring you out, or we will come out of what is negotiated in the net minimum wage, I think that's really important. And with other things you mentioned if I'm not wrong about negotiating a small amount, it's never been effectively agreed so far, and it only serves as a protective mechanism in case of difficult circumstances. I repeat, it has never been agreed, and it cannot be negotiated without social partners or employers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67129	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67130	238. I would ask you to answer the question, so it's about that it's not a matter of never being agreed, so the unions have sent you comments you had four union objections where it says that what is contracted means even a minimum contract is paid in a small amount, and then it's paid in the amount of minimum, but the workers work overtime means the holidays, and Sundays etc. You didn't respond that way in percentages to be paid overtime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67131	Thank you very much, colleague Peović, you get a third warning and you lose your right to speak on this point. Let's move on. No, no, no, third, so I'm not gonna argue, so I'm gonna take the right to have any more of you in the debate today, you've got a third warning and a point, goodbye. Here are my colleagues, Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67132	Dear President of the Assembly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67133	Wait a minute. I have to say I'm going to appeal to the Rules of Procedure Committee, so this isn't under the rules of procedure. You didn't warn me at all, I had... [[The President's intrusion: Feel free to complain.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67134	Why should I warn you, so you must take care of yourself. Please sit down. You'll get further notice, and then I take away your right to speak all day. Here you go, Comrade Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67135	So what are we now? Where are we? Maybe I get a warning, so I keep my mouth shut. [[Stain Sanader: Please return time.]] Okay. [[Sandader: Here you go.]] Can I? Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In your opening statement, you said that most of the objections were almost all out of the scope of this law, that doesn't suit the truth. You received a series of remarks on the first reading of this law, as said by your colleague Peović and many on this side of the assembly, for example. on less than minimum wage means 95%, then on non-inclusion and internships in the minimum wage calculation, so you received observations as far as I see you did not include them. Yet I would ask you to answer me what exactly are the changes between the first reading and the final reading? What exactly did the ministry do during this period in relation to the parliamentary debate? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67136	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67137	So, as regards the proposed amendments, we have assessed that in this bill they are not necessary but that a number of things listed as observations are already sufficiently regulated in the general labour regulation, but also in this bill and considered that those proposals that we have put forward so far are sufficient to address the issues that we want to address through this proposal. I mean all the increases here, I mean what you said about the possibility of contracting 95%, but what we didn't touch today is surveillance, so implementation in the exact accounting of minimum wages, especially those agreed through a collective contract. So I think that through this proposal we have addressed the items that are controversial and in other proposals we simply did not see that there is a need to win them after a professional debate at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67138	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67139	Thank you. So here's to paraphrase one folk, it's easy with someone else's money to beat up a clay this time with the money of entrepreneurs. So, what's the matter with us? In fact, the fact is that the state interferes in the market and does not do what it should do, so it does not raise the quality of institutions, does not raise legal certainty, does not raise the trust of institutions that ultimately lead to new investment, economic development and thus indirectly to pay increases. How about comments that say that a minimum wage increase will lead to an increase in work on black and how do you think to control it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67140	I would like to say that we offer our employers a range of opportunities through active employment policy measures, and we have recorded a number of different reforms that are administratively and tax-delivered by our workers. As for working on black, I'm glad you mentioned it, so one of our initiatives in the upcoming period will just be to suppress undeclared work, or work on black. As far as this Act is concerned, in order to ensure an even better quality of workers, especially on a minimum salary, we have provided for the possibility of joint inspections, hence labour inspections and tax inspections to determine what is really going on, and I would also like to stress that I believe that we will also be successful in this segment and that we will certainly reduce undeclared work rates, i.e. work on black.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67141	Next replica, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67142	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, one of the amendments to the law in question refers to the extension of the minimum wage definition as the one agreed on by extended collective agreements. The government of the Republic of Croatia has repeatedly shown by this Law that it encourages social dialogue or collective bargaining of workers through trade unions and employers. However, we have only one extended collective contract in the construction sector, construction activities, how much in Croatia, what is your experience in the ministry, how many trade unions and employers as basic labour market players are ready and able to assume responsibility for regulation of the labour market? Because in the event of stronger collective bargaining, the government should not even intervene and regulate minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67143	That's right, thank you for that question. So we want to put emphasis on social dialogue. Currently there is a collective contract on construction, there was another one in tourism now put to rest because of the pandemic situation, but we have indications that there will be additional collective agreements. In particular, the construction contract, it is encouraging that for a group of workers there a minimum wage is agreed which is greater than that prescribed by the regulation and that is the real example. In addition, these inspections will check whether this minimum wage is respected, whether the employer pays that salary and whether it is calculated in quality. In any case, I think we should put room for employers and trade unions to agree, that they know best what are realities and support, needs and I think it will be of added value to all, such collective agreements and their wider application in accordance with, extended under the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67144	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67145	My dear secretary, in your opening statement, you have boasted that you have increased the minimum wage in the past 2 terms by 50%, but you have forgotten the fact that, for example, Oil and other foods have been collected over the past few months by 50%. Therefore, growth does not follow price increases, it is the first problem. Another problem. I believe that you are familiar with the European Pillar of Social Rights and I believe that you are familiar with the provisions of the European Union Confederation, which has pointed out that minimum wage should not be below 60% of the media pay. You've come here with percentages, but don't forget that the media pay is small and what we've now received as a minimum wage is below the poverty line and people won't be able to live. Another problem, do not forget that your inspection is not working or that the inspection is doing badly, and you will achieve nothing there. And for deficits, you'll have to make a different law, a different regulation. Construction is not a problem right now. It's not a problem for IT. That salary will never be minimal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67146	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67147	There is an expert commission that gives us the input on foods, on all indicators that are important in order to, in fact, determine the quality level of minimum wage, and therefore the record growth of minimum wage is just being taken care of by these prices that speak. So we haven't, we've achieved that share of the media salary you're talking about, that's wanted long before we expected it, so it's not that it's some category that hasn't been achieved, it's been achieved. And share in the media and share in the average gross salary. So, I would say that we are taking care of what is happening, what is really happening in the purchasing power of our citizens, and that is why this growth is recordable, so I repeat, record, taking care of both the cost of living in the Republic of Croatia and strengthening the material position of Croatian workers and workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67148	The next replica, Honored Vice-President of Sabine Vosovac's Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67149	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The only meaningful intervention in this Act is that the minimum wage must be agreed, prescribed or fixed in gross amounts. However, since you mentioned in your opening statement that this bill is a continuation of the systematic improvement of salaries in previous years. I'll tell you that you're lying, that you're wrong. Your tax reform has favored only the rich and those with the highest salaries, which is 7,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia, while all others have forgotten and ignored. They got nothing from her. Now, I'm curious that it's not embarrassing for you to boast that the minimum wage in Croatia will increase by 350 kuna, when the calculation, that is, the research of a union, has said that this is even 3 times less than is necessary for the worker and his family to live with dignity. After all, this 10-point minimum wage increase is something percent of inflation and expensive because, for example, oil and fat have already collected by 17.4%, gas by 12.2%, fuel by 19%, not to mention costs of housing, transport, etc. [[Intruder: Time.]] Are you uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67150	Now there are more things I could say, again, I think the minimum wage must come from an expert assessment and agreement between the social partners. What I also want to point out is that the reliefs and what is happening on the labour market, above all, that the jobs as such have been preserved, have contributed to the fact that the material position of all workers is much better. So we're talking about minimum wage, yes, but I'm still drawing attention that growth is both medium and average, which means that today our citizens are in a much better position than before, or in a record position, because they've never been more employed, they've never had a higher salary and we've never had a lower unemployment rate. Again, every year we analyse the impact of our proposals on the material position of workers and the state will always intervene, if it sees, or the Government that there is a need for additional interventions. I say one more thing again, so this is a record salary growth, 3750 kuna, which is a balance between what is currently possible on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67151	Next replica, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67152	Thank you. It's here... question whether a chicken or an egg. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of the lack of social dialogue, then the state has to jump in. Knowing what the history of industrial relations is, because then the state has to jump in to protect its citizens through the Minimum Salary Act that we introduced only in 2013 and only to meet EU conditions. That's what it says about our social dialogue. Therefore, Croatia needs to have a minimum wage law. This proposal, without further ado, but only in some ways establishing certain ones, wants to remove certain phenomena that have occurred since 2013, which is to play by that regulation that is related to both work on black and minimum wage and then Is that a question why these 50% of the average salary [[Intruder: Time.]] You don't install as a mechanism in the law itself? [[Intruder: Time.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67153	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67154	I would refer to this issue of social dialogue because I think it is really important to point out that there is an interest on the side and an employer and... to sign additional, in fact, collective agreements that would be agreed upon with other material rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would not agree that there is no interest, I think there is a framework, that there is a good will, and that in the coming period, which is also announced by the social partners very likely to see the signing of more collective agreements, which is announced, whose change would then be extended. So not only in construction but also in other sectors. So he would disagree with the assessment that social dialogue is going backwards already. As for fixing the minimum wage share in the media, I think it would simply be unsatisfactory to do what you want to do. A much wider set of indicators should be taken to make this growth truly sustainable and to maintain balance and be realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67155	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67156	Dear Secretary of State, here are two short questions. Do you have any record of how many of those who receive, who are on a minimum wage, don't work full-time, and that's very important, how much they only work for 6 or 4 hours because that's where the state and the second question are played, can you, or can you survive the month with the salary that you're predicting, and that's 3 750 kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67157	As for the share of full-time workers, I think that a large, large majority of these 51,000 workers and workers working on a minimum wage, working full-time, I repeat again, when you look at 2016 and the net amount of 2459 thousand kuna net, means 2459 net. This has certainly not been sustainable and this growth will certainly strengthen the material position of workers and workers. So it will strengthen the material position and that is why we are trying to talk to the social partners so that this growth is constant, but sustainable. It's not a solution just to draw a line, put in some transparent amount and say here it is, now you have to respect it. It must be sustainable, and I believe that because otherwise there would be great difficulties in the labour market, and it has just created difficulties for employers to set some amount at a flat rate without employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67158	Next replica, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here, I would once again point out, as you are in your debate, the importance of social dialogue and collective agreements. It is precisely these amendments and additions of the law that require that the employer, for example, In construction, it cannot pay its worker a minimum wage of 3 750 kuna, but for some more complex jobs than 4,000, for those most complex over 11,000 kuna. Also, for overtime, work at night and Sunday cannot be hidden behind some 0.1%, but as the collective contract predicts, which is mostly 30% for working nights and Sundays and 50% for working on Sundays and 30% for overtime and working at night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67160	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67161	The collective contract on construction is indeed a good example of such a relationship where, except for another group of workers who have a minimum wage of 4 800 kuna, minimum wage is prescribed in certain groups of highly qualified workers for more than 11 thousand kuna. I think it's the right way, and besides, in that collective contract, it's agreed and how many increases there are. If I am not mistaken, the contract states that the increase for work on Sundays is 50% or 30% overtime. So, in fact, this is a great example and we have indications of the good will of the social partners to continue to be such examples. I repeat, we also had a collective agreement in tourism, but the circumstances of Covid put him on hold, but I believe that this contract will come into effect again as soon as these special pandemic circumstances take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67162	Next replica, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67163	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State. It seems to me that today we hear criticism mostly coming from two directions, one liberal who says, this measure of raising minimum wages is another state intervention in the market. This reduces entrepreneurial freedoms, I can agree that pay depends primarily on productivity, but of course, the market cannot leave everything. We need in some way to protect the integrity, and at least these kind of measures that may not be enough, but they help in that direction. On the other hand, criticism comes from this social democratic or socialist side that they would say, but need even more, it should be further, however, of course there should be taken into account again what conditions are in the market. So the market can't dominate, but we can't ignore that market. So this is exactly the principle of a social market economy, and in this respect I feel that this increase in minimum wage should be welcomed which is, in fact, when you look at more or less all MPs and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67164	It is precisely the purpose of our talks with the social partners, to find this balance of what we want, and that is the social market economy to take care of the position of workers, but also the possibility of entrepreneurs to carry out these obligations. Our expert commission, which in one hand is the basis for minimum wage, is precisely these people from these groups, and I believe that as a government we achieve a good balance between what a person needs to strengthen its material status and what employers can. Of course, this is complemented by a number of other measures in our portfolio, measures of active employment policy, as well as the preservation of jobs that have even allowed existing jobs to be held, but also to create new quality jobs. I draw attention to the fact that we have included 160,000 workers through active employment policy measures in the past 5 years, and to measures to preserve jobs over 700,000 workers, which is enough to say that these measures are complementary and realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67165	The next replica honours MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67166	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, minimum salary of $3.750, average salary of HRK 7,118, basket of goods required for normal, I will not say a decent life because there is no education here, no transportation by car, no health services 8.596 kuna. You can't even handle that basket with an average, let alone a minimum wage. Even government plans that say that by the end of the term the minimum wage will be 60% of the average salary will not ensure a decent life. The law leaves the employers at will of the allowance on minimum wage, etc., and this contract on the work of last night's worker who worked overtime, a father who has no child to pay for education. Overtime work 1%, work on Sundays, holidays and other working days 5%, night work 3%, for difficult working conditions 1%. So much for the 50 and 30% that my colleague Branko Juricev mentioned. What do you have to tell this father?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67167	This case is really unfortunate. I want to say that when we look at the overall picture I think you have to be aware that you can't, you can't unilaterally promise a minimum wage without making sure that employers can take it out. And that's why I'm assuming that so far the growth in minimum wage until, say, 2016 in circumstances that are not similar to today when there was no pandemic and earthquake was really minimal. It says how difficult it is to raise minimum wage and make it sustainable for the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67168	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67169	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we've heard some questions and I don't think anyone's going to say that this is an ideal condition, but neither of us here should at least say that this government is not socially sensitive and that it hasn't done everything to increase the minimum wage. Well, we don't actually have any country in the world that has ideal conditions. We also had governments that could raise the minimum wage so they increased it by 0 kuna. This government has done it and increased its salary by 1.254 kuna. It's not enough either, but it's certainly better than it was before. My question to you, who will control the payment of this minimum wage and are there other social instruments that can help people who are on minimum pay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67170	It is clear in the draft law that we will essentially strengthen criminal liability to determine that these, that these minimum salaries will indeed be paid. So, what I'm trying to say is that it's going to be checked and paid, but also a high-quality bill of these salaries if they're agreed by collective agreement. Therefore, much more detailed and stricter supervision of the application of these, these regulations, and also if these minimum wages are agreed and increased, and that part of the joint inspections will also mean labour inspection and tax inspection to verify that, in order to ensure that the spirit of this proposal and what it wants to achieve is truly, indeed, on the ground and that these minimum salaries are respected, paid. And I'm going back to that question they're negotiating in a gross amount so that the other measures that will be complementary to this as tax relief really come into workers' pockets. In order not to lose it in the net amount, the gross amount to be checked shall be agreed. And every employer who doesn't [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67171	Thank you, Secretary of State. You're free for now. Do the proposing representatives, the committee, want to take a word? Dear Davorko Vidovic, chairman of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67172	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President, State Secretary of the Labour Committee, Pension System and Social Partnership discussed at the 14th session held on 20 October the Final Act amending and supplementing the Minimum Salary Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Croatian Parliament on 14 October '21. A year. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee received comments from the Regional Industrial Union from Varazdin, the Independent Trade Union of Croatia from Rijeka and Independent Croatian Trade Unions. In his opening statement, he pointed out that the proposed law differs from the first reading only nomotechnically, not materially. The aim of the law is for minimum wage to be a social protection instrument at the same time. It was also noted that it gradually increased the share of minimum salaries in the last 5 years from 38% in the '16th to 46% in the '20s and '21s. Making it possible for workers who receive the lowest wage to receive higher incomes. Now, the debate most board members pointed out that it is necessary to prescribe that the minimum wage should not be included in the allowances relating to past work, shift work, etc. i.e. to be in art. 2. amending Art. 3.St. 4. extends in a way that the minimum wage does not include the increase in wages determined by collective agreements, labour regulations and labour contracts. It is also unacceptable for the majority of board members to find solutions in art. The 5th proposed law. In their opinion, an inadmissible and unwarranted solution whereby employers can pay a minimum wage less than the amount established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in the opinion of most committee members, the proposed solution is unacceptable. 8. under which employers can unilaterally amend labour contracts which are a bilateral legal act. An opinion is given to encourage collective bargaining. The debate stressed that the past few years have been promoted by the minimum wage institute as well as a gradual increase although most minimum salaries are not as much as the workers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would like at the end of the debate, the committee has come to know that the social dialogue on amendments to the Labour Act should be started to improve solutions relating to the different basics of wage increases. It pointed out that this law is now in line with the applicable Labour Act and proposed in agreement with the social partners. References shall be made in the debate relating to Art. Article 5 8. It will be further discussed before the debate at the plenary session. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by majority, to vote 9 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, to propose HS to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Minimum Payment Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67173	Thank you. Any other committees? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first reported is SDP's Club of Representatives, on their behalf, the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67174	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Why is there a minimum wage law, and why does it not exist in all countries? The reason why in some countries, and my intention is to compare with only the regulated EU countries, there is one level of collective bargaining that has reached that level that state intervention in minimum wage is not necessary. Social dialogue exists and social dialogue works. I don't think I'll surprise anyone when I say that Croatia is still not such a country. And precisely because Croatia is not yet such a country, Croatia is a law that will regulate minimum wage and define the obligation to apply it. However, now it is up to us to discuss what kind of framework we need and whether the existing framework is good. Mr. Secretary of State, the remarks you received from the opposition stand. In your first reading, you have received a series of constructive and quality remarks on how to improve this framework, but you did not accept them and that is a fact. And you came before us with one product that is only acceptable in one part and we can all support it, and that's the part where we talk about that minimum wage needs to be negotiated at a gross amount, and that's something we certainly support, but there's a lot to talk about. What is particularly important to us is to point out the following, an increase in the minimum wage at this point is not and cannot be a good will of political actors. The increase in minimum wage is necessity, necessity on the one hand due to a huge increase in the cost of living, and on the other hand because the minimum wage is growing in all countries in the environment. Recently, we have had opportunities to hear preliminary data from the DZS, which shows that in 10 years, 240,000 of us are less, one of the reasons among other things is that this year the minimum wage in Germany is three times higher than in Croatia, and at this point as the negotiations are being held on the formation of a new German government, the Social Democrats advocate and this is one of the main conditions for the minimum wage to increase further. And think about why people go to Germany among other things, it's similar with Ireland and other countries. At the beginning the minimum basic salary is three times higher than it is in Croatia and that is the reality. And to all those who complain about the increase in minimum wage, and there are those that I listened to today, I recommend that they consider whether anyone will stay in Croatia to work for these 500 minimum euros? I'm afraid the answer to that is not because that amount is not enough for a decent and normal life. In the last 10 or more pardons 13 years, Croatia has been among the countries with a minimum wage increase, behind us are those such as Luxembourg, where the minimum wage is 2,000 euros or the Netherlands, where the minimum wage is 1,700 euros and it is normal to increase there, but we have to look at those countries that are similar to us in the economic situation, which are neither the Netherlands nor Luxembourg. It is Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania where the increase was from 60% to even 70%, and we are twice behind them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for whatever good it is that at this point the amount of minimum wages is increased, it cannot remain and cannot be left to the mercy or mercy of those who at that time exercise power. Croatia needs a system in all parts of its work, as well as in the section relating to wage policy. A system that will link the minimum wage to one with the cost of living, which we witness today every day, but on the other hand, and the growth of the average wage. We need to connect the minimum wage to those two factors and then know in advance how it will be raised next year, and I will not repeat it again, that it is a matter of political bickering and use for day-to-day political purposes and the growth of someone's popularity. Minimum wage is a social category, and it should be more than that. The minimum wage not to guarantee a dignified life but to question whether it guarantees any life in today's Republic in which the prices and costs of life rise daily. I mentioned that this law has a lot of room for repair. That he's just not good enough. In this context, we of the SDP support the amendments they requested from the union. And we have submitted three amendments that we have received from the NHS and we are asking that the government be manifested and that their acceptance will depend on our support for this law. It's the first one. 2. requiring that a minimum wage exemption should be extended to all additions, i.e. an increase in the wages of collective agreements and contracts on work, past work, shift work, etc. Not just those supplements prescribed by the Labour Act. We think this is right because otherwise, if all of this were to be calculated, then the question is how many people will eventually work for this minimum wage. Furthermore, we ask that the right to increase wages be extended at least in the height of a collective contract, whose application has been extended in accordance with the general regulation and for the difficult working conditions. It's the same as it was in the first case. Otherwise, the question is what is minimum wage. And the last amendment we propose is the part relating to the conclusion of new labour contracts. We ask that the term "change" be replaced with the word "supply" because, respected colleagues and colleagues, and especially the members of the ministry, the contract of work is a two-sided legal act and it is unacceptable that the employer can amend it by unilateral decision under the law. He can only offer a worker such a new contract because, with all due respect to anyone, if we stay on that the employer can unilaterally change it, I'm not sure that all employers would remain only on the minimum wage section. And let me point out a particular problem that represents part of the wider picture, not just part of the story of minimum wage policy relating to full pay policy in the Republic of Croatia, and this is about the addition to work on Sundays, holidays, difficult working conditions, etc. If there is no collective agreement, and we know not all workers in Croatia, yet a huge number of workers in Croatia are not covered by a collective contract, if there is no collective contract, such an addition can be one lip, and then it is no addition. Now, that's what we need to talk about. Not only in the context of minimum wage but in full wage policy in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I purposely started with that there are countries where social dialogue is developed and where perhaps this kind of intervention of the state is not necessary. But Croatia is not like that. In Croatia, social dialogue helmet. Well, when social dialogue is a stunt, then it's a duty for the state to react, intervene and help those who are in a working relationship with the weaker side. And in a working relationship, the weaker side is a worker. And we, when we cannot ensure that such additions are in a good way regulated by collective agreements when amending the Labour Act, have to think and consider, in a minimum way, that we prescribe these supplements by the Labour Act because otherwise, as counterpart Ahmetovic has previously shown in that contract she received from one worker, we will have similar situations. We'll bet someone has the right to one more lip for Sunday's work, and that's it. And even with the ban on working Sundays at the store, we don't touch all those workers who will continue to work on Sundays in other sectors, from catering and beyond. They stay unprotected, and the state doesn't seem to care about them. The SDP decision on whether to support this Act will depend on the Government's position on amendments and therefore we urge you to consider them in detail and accept them because they improve this frame in the right direction. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67175	Next is the debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67176	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. There's a disinfected pay phone, but we have one problem with Mr. Grbina's head sticking over this plexiglas, and it should be another 20 cm, so here's another 20 cm, and here's a little bit more of this, at least 20 cm, because it doesn't make sense, my colleagues here in the front row are going to get infected. Okay, joke aside. Plus we have a problem second, this one that disinfects must be a little higher because it can't reach this part where, which is the most contaminated, so, a little more employees or a little bit more bankers. [[Intruder: So not infected.]] All right, come on, joke aside. We're talking minimum wage. Dear Secretary of State, I asked you a question in the replica, you didn't answer me, but you told me you didn't know, and it's a key piece of information. So I'm going to repeat the question now that the Croatian public is hearing it, and since you don't know you can't even answer me, but here's another one. How many of these 51-2 000 workers who are on the minimal don't work full-time? It's a very important piece of information. I set an example of a lady from Sibenik who works in a cleaning service when she's a minimum, but this isn't a fake story I know that woman, so this isn't a fake story. I told her you were super-supervised for minimum wage, yes, but I don't work eight more than six hours a day anymore. To be clear, she works 10 hours a day. She works 10 hours a day for that employer maybe 12, visits offices and offices, cleans them up, but for as much money as she's worked before. And that's, that's what I'm curious about here next time you come either you or the minister to the assembly here with that information come and see if it can be solved in any way. Because it is not the purpose of this law, or the PR government regulation, that it will be a minimum salary of EUR 500, otherwise symbolically EUR 500, is it so in perspective, but the purpose of this is to make someone live a better, better or higher income. The second question I asked, and you didn't answer me either, I understand why. Because the answer would be bad for your PR, the ruling coalition. And the question was, can you live with 3,750 kuna a month what will be the minimum wage? So the answers clearly can't. You can't live. So, these two salaries with one and two kids, so now plus a child's allowance isn't enough to live for, and then when you give up all your expenses, every luxury, when you have your own real estate, then when you still have some garden in front of your house and when, you know, you turn every lip three times and watch you spend it. So it's not enough. And then actually these measures are funny until the moment that this minimum wage won't be enough to live, and this minimum isn't enough. And that's what matters. But the key thing about this story is that you're here now by raising this salary, would you ask your colleagues to be quieter?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67177	Please don't talk, Nikolina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67178	And so did fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67179	Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67180	Don't sit in your seats even, I'd separate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67181	Excuse me. Mr. Zekanovic, continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67182	Split up, send.../incomprehensible/... to your place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67183	You may proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67184	Yeah, okay. So now I've lost the thought you see this. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67185	We'll get some time back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67186	Key, I'll find it. I'll be back. It's not a problem. So, the key problem is that the state's burden to raise minimum wages didn't take on itself but transferred it to the employers because now here's my colleague even from the HDZ told me so. So it used to be 3,400 nets, 3,750 nets, and now it's going to be 4,250 gross, sorry it was 4.250 gross, and now it's going to be 4,667 total wage increases cost going to employers. If the state were fair, let's say let's share it or let's take it all on ourselves. If it is in our interest to make life easier for workers to have higher incomes and to keep a working intensive economy let's take the burden on ourselves. In one increase a few years ago it was a case and it was commendable. We had an increase that wasn't a burden on the employer but only on the state and really nobody had anything to say. This is a problem now because we have a burden on the employer. Now, here's what I've been looking for are the numbers that actually have employees in these labour-intense industries. Textile has had a terrible fall, so somewhere there since 2002 when there were 8,550 workers in the textile industry today, the textile industry is just a little over 3,000 workers. And the leather industry has a smaller decline, but it came to 9,000 today. So we have about 12-13 000 people working in the leather and textile industries that are the main employers, so industrial employers that pay minimum wage. I'm about to say one thing that no one has said. This rest applies either to the construction workers to whom the rest of the money is given, given in black or mainly to women who work as private maids. That's two categories of people. So the construction workers that are registered to the minimumer, the minimumer and the rest of the money are given to the black and the maids. So I invite you to have the problem of applying to 4, 6 or less hours a day to solve, or first to see how many there are and finally, if you really want to help, let's find some model to stimulate at least those in the building that have the money, to pay people as much as they should pay for the law. Here, these are my advice and that is the attitude of Croatian sovereigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67187	Thank you. Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67188	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. I'll do something unconventional before the debate itself, I'd like to thank the young secretary today who had a debate on such an important subject, although political, economic and in all senses we differ, I don't think it was a good message to go to the secretary himself, and I think that given the difficult subject, it's not easy to come to parliamentary representatives and expose this subject regardless of the attitude and as a young parliamentary representative, I'd like to thank you for your courage to take it no matter what we disagree with. As far as the Minimum Payment Act is concerned, it should be considered with two perspectives. One is that an increase in this minimum wage can lead to an increase in the consumer's power of the worker itself through consumption, but on the other hand, it can lead to too high the minimum wage prescribed by the government, could also negatively affect the level of employment and inflation. The HUP survey itself came to the next conclusion in the survey that more than 50% of entrepreneurs in Croatia expressed that there would be an increase in the cost of businesses to take into account the overall inflation and the increase in energy prices, so that potential pay increases for 52,000 people on the labour market could increase the costs to those who might also think about layoffs. Now, as far as the minimum wage itself is concerned, we may also need to consider potential inflation that can come from Germany because of this minimum wage. So the minimum wage in Germany is now about 9.5 euros, but a potential pretender for the Chancellor in Germany, Mr Scholz, announced in his preamble a 12-euro minimum wage increase. Now, Deutsche Welle and the other analysts are politically and economically announcing and predicting these promises by Scholz, which could most likely have a manifestation of the German economy, but through the German economy and the Croatian and the entire EU, for what they now call a real political game, for the reasons that economists and real analysts are looking to announce or view these prices that are going to lead to a rise in minimum wage. The increase in the minimum wage is not as such, it does not stop there but the whole pay criterion, the whole redesign pays on the market then move towards worse because the rest of the salary increase after the law will then be negotiated either by trade unions or the market. And in that sense, you have a lot of pressure on wages in general and there may be a negative effect in a crisis like this, and it's a spiral and wage growth and price growth, and then we can have a very difficult situation. As for the position of the general free market, we have to put it here on the table, so the truth is that in many rich countries of the West there is a minimum wage and we touched it, but not because it is economically correct and it was spoken of by Milton Friedman and Prof.... even Prof. Stigitz, who is more socially oriented, so they all left that concept of minimum wage for the reason that the Minimum Payment Act is the data they showed as such that he with low income gives an apparent something, apparently something. And the illusion is what counts in politics and on this basis the politicians so far received votes or elections. The first one was seen by Milton Friedman as an American economic Nobel laureate because in his opinion reality is economically different, this reality says that when on the one hand unions get bigger salaries for their members, it happens because of the restrictions on the entry of other members into the profession and the higher wages go to the expense of other workers who have reduced these opportunities. When the state increases its salaries then these salaries go to taxpayers' burden, and when workers get higher salaries and better conditions based on the free market, when they get raises from companies competing with each other for the best workers and when workers compete with each other, and certainly not with the employer, then those salaries are not on anybody's account and then that cake becomes bigger and everyone in that cake gets both workers, both the state and employees, and trade unions and in that concept it is a win-win for everyone. As far as the minimum salaries are concerned and generally pays in Croatia what is the fact is that millions of people live today, so they have a median salary of about 6,000 kuna, and today the basket is well worth 7.800 kuna, which means that millions of people live at the edge of the risk of poverty, and those who receive minimum wage are already in poverty, and they have to pay that difference with debts and still come to banks and put them in the quiet minuses that then wait for three years to resolve the situation that has not yet been resolved. So, did the minimum salaries bring Croatia a better standard? They are not and can not be solved with the concept of minimum wage but by increasing the productivity of work where even for workers, the minimum wage that would go with labour productivity, so workers would produce more services per hour and, if they were to earn by increasing productivity, they could buy more. What should the government of the Republic of Croatia think about? So, on the amendment of the Labour Act for the reason that this Law on Minimum Salary does not regulate additions, does not regulate everything that bothers our people, and these are both overtime and over holidays and over the rest of the days of difficult situations, then not regulated working time and records, the issue of breaks, the issue of sick leave, the regulation of distance work, so it's not all regulated by this law. And I've already set an example in Zagreb County, so the woman worked Saturday and Sunday for two days she got only 56 kuna and it doesn't regulate the minimum wage law. On the other hand, workers' perspective should be taken, so employers should compete with other employers to find the best workers, best efficiency, and so should be in our reality. However, the only competition in Croatia that needs to be changed is only possible with the growth of entrepreneurship that is under heavy attack and craftsmen that is on the birth line where it is unfortunately employed through a relationship and through familiarity. And after the collapse of Eastern European communist countries, the state basic form becomes the gift of entire state-owned companies and companies to newly created tycoons who unfortunately treated their workers as their slaves, and we also have the opportunity to see in Croatia. The proof of this is FINA and this has nothing to do with the minimum wage but in general with the salary is that from 2016 to 2019. FINA is forced to do so by 5000 employers, it has managed to collect 600 million kunas of unpaid salaries, I say this has nothing to do with minimum salaries but in general with the concept that employers do not pay their workers and that they are treated sometimes as slaves and I see it by official data, but it is not solved again with the concept of minimum wage. And what is really a concept that we should strive for, and it is achieved through entrepreneurship and open economy, is offered by American President Franklin Roosevelt, who, when voting the Law on the Recovery of the National Industry, said it by quotes, I quote it, no job that depends on paying smaller, smaller salaries to its workers, depends on paying less wages to its workers, and by business, I mean the whole trade, as well as the industry, and by workers I mean all the workers, the class of white collars, as well as the combinations, and by paying for life, I mean more than mere existence, I mean paying for a decent life, and I close the quote. So this is, this principle of minimum pay to be solved, let's say, seen in the construction industry. If we could limit it with pay then employers can limit the negotiation of the workers themselves and say that this shortage is actually the people in this sector, and will be restored to Zagreb, it will come, Banovina will be renewed, so parts of the city will be renewed, so it is now an opportunity for the market as it is in the shortage of workers so that it has to look for workers and has to pay them more. When it is limited by such a law, then you actually take away all the tools of negotiating workers and it is impossible to get a higher salary, and in this shortage when masters move out of the Republic of Croatia, so in that situation we have limited them to this law. Therefore, an increase in wage productivity and overall labour productivity is the goal of the Republic of Croatia and the government is obliged to achieve this goal by the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67189	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives of the Honored Representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67190	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So right at the beginning, let me say that, as in the first reading of the HNS and HSU and Independent MPs, they will support this bill because it brings small but high-quality newspapers in the area of minimum wage definition. We are discussing here today as though minimally it will solve everything, it won't, it won't, it can't, it can't be because I've been following industrial relations and I've been actively involved in industrial relations since the '90s onwards in Croatia. Then for a while, we'll negotiate everything with a general collective contract that we left in '95, and then we had the lowest basic salary under which we couldn't. In the '95s, this concept was abandoned, and it said that we would have collective agreements of activity that would be concluded by trade unions with employers, therefore market freedom, and for a wonderful miracle we from that time until today have only one collective contract of activity of construction that has been extended to all construction entities. Imagine, for the construction that relates to this Minimum Pay Act at a time when it's a general hoax for this, this construction worker. So imagine, you imagine that possibility that someone is working for 3,400 today in construction when it's an activity, a rising activity, etc. Of course, they are obliged not only to change my minimum wage but they are obliged to negotiate a new collective contract and new values and not rely on a minimum wage in the activity which, which is on the rise, is therefore needed by the workforce because no one can tell me today that you will get a construction worker for 3,400 or 3,750 kuna. Otherwise, this collective contract of my knowledge is a collective contract that provided high income for workers and low wages. You understand, high incomes, and small wages, therefore both field and additions for this and added them and supplements from I don't know about, for vibrations on the machine etc.. This is not a long-term solution, the long-term solution is pay, the gross salary on which contributions are paid, resulting in a solid, solid pension at the end of the working life. We both trade unions and employers cheat themselves because in the end employers should have the conscience of those people they spend and who as poor end up in retirement, the unions that these workers pay their membership fees to, and when they go to retirement leave, no one else takes care of them, because they have small contributions and today they have a small, small pension. So, I don't experience any epochal solution, nor do I think that this debate is deeply related to this law, it's more a reflection of yesterday's performance and, and hitting on some, in fact, because if we were to talk about the essence of this law then we would agree very quickly and I believe that, as in the first reading, one large majority of the MPs of this law will support it. He has indeed, he has really some newspaper that was needed and that the social partners negotiated, and we have the right to talk about whatever we want, but we don't have too much to judge about, we have to respect it, and the agreement of the social partners is that minimum wage must be agreed, fixed or prescribed in gross amount, so far it wasn't the case. The agreement of the social partners shall not include an increase in wages from the base of overtime of difficult working conditions, night work and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day for which the law stipulates that it is not working. So, it's a social partners agreement to enter this Act and that it can't be under the total amount of 3 500 or 3 750 tomorrows and work on Sundays and all of these, therefore, all of these overtime supplements, for difficult working conditions, etc. And that's basically a calm soul that we can accept and say, yes, that's it. Of course we're also looking for the shortcomings of this law. And I've tabled the amendment to one fundamental flaw because it's in art. 5 said that minimum wage can vary according to the fund hours, and at that level, at that existentially low level, it is necessary for our citizens to know that they have the certainty that each month they will get the same amount because they will pay the same directors and is equal to the need for food. I hope this amendment will be adopted. So, every month these people at that level get the same amount because it's certainly necessary for planning and therefore living needs of either single or family. By the way, this is a long way to the minimum wage, and this is just the beginning. A beginning that will continue to develop either through collective bargaining or through the Labour Act or perhaps even through the Minimum Salary Act. So all options are open. At this point, we do not have the Labour Act prescribed that overtime, work on Saturdays,.../incomprehensible/... there is that possibility. There's a possibility that I was talking about last time here after this assembly, which is that employers and trade unions are agreed on and that they make one general collective contract for all activities, which is the fastest solution and that they say a minimum over-the-counter has to be paid 30%, the minimum on Sundays has to be paid 40, I'm talking to you by heart. 40%, minimum for some other difficult working conditions must be gained 15% and then that applies to all. This general collective agreement would expand and apply to everything, and that would be a very simple and quick solution, if there is a will for employers and workers, with union representatives, there should not be an act of who is the most beautiful and wisest and who is the most effective because it is always about negotiating the minimums to be paid for this work on Sundays, overtime and the rest. So, it won't, no one would get the crown out of their heads to try and do this, and not wait for the government to solve it by law because then the government, if it works, why you interfere in our business, our social partners, it's ours to negotiate, if it doesn't work, why don't you work, why don't you prescribe. So, people, actors in social dialogue, decide already once, will you work and produce collective agreements and, on the basis of collective agreements, achieve the rights of workers or will you wait and scratch around politics to solve your policies through the laws what your job is. Because how many people will get paid in gross amounts depends on their pension. For this level of minimum wage, for someone to get a pension of 4,000 kuna, which is a decent pension for Croatia, should amount to 850 kuna times 98 years. On Route 98, it means never until a decent retirement. So, my people, let's go, I say, this can go well, but this is just the beginning of the road, it deserves our attention and deserves our support on these elements. Also, please accept the amendment or the solution in Art. 8 because it cannot really be ordered employers to change their work contract but can only offer an amended contract, a working contract, and that is all the essence, and it is the right of the worker to give, an offer of an amended contract, either refuses or accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67191	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67192	Thank you, Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed Assistant Minister, respected MPs and MPs in HS, so as I have pointed out once and for all, the minimum wage institute is a highly sensitive nature, and that is why we should also approach with the highest possible severity, and also responsibility, which is certainly what this Government does. At present, the minimum wage law has entered into force in 2019. However, already in the previous minimum wage law of 2018, the definition of minimum wage has been specified and it is said that such wages do not include increases belonging to the worker for night work, work on Sundays, holidays or some other day prescribed by law not to be paid on a minimum wage since 2018, and it is good that this bill and the current law have maintained such a definition and has complemented the difficult working conditions, which certainly goes to the benefit of workers. It is also important to stress that the law does not determine the level of minimum wage, but it says what the minimum wage is, which is not, which is paid at the top of the minimum wage, who controls the process etc. Under the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a minimum wage regulation for each calendar year, and this regulation is today at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a 10th point, as you all know yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic pointed out right here in front of you that the minimum wage for 2022. to be 3.750 kuna, which is an increase of 10.3% and 350 kuna respectively, and this is never a higher increase at the annual level. Under the law, the minimum wage cannot be determined in the amount of less than the amount established for the previous year, and the minimum wage itself is increased after consultation with the social partners, hence the representatives of the HUP and the trade unions, in order to satisfy and balance the interests of both parties to the greatest extent possible, which is very important. It should also be mentioned here that it has been since 2019. at the Ministry of Labour, the established expert body of the Committee for the Analysis and Monitoring of Minimum Salaries, which I also find very important. So minimum salary today in '21. is 4,250 kuna and 3,400 kuna, respectively. As we have had the opportunity to hear and today all the time talk about it for the next year it will be increased by 350 kuna will be 3,750 kuna in gross amount that is 4,687 kuna and that is an increase of more than 10% as well as the largest increase at the annual level. In the term of office of this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic in the last five years, the minimum wage has been increased by a total of 1.567 kuna and 1.254 in the net amount, which is in fact a 50% increase compared to 2016. We have never had so much significant increases, never at annual level, and neither in total, looking at and comparing the mandates of different governments. The comparisons work as I have already said the minimum wage throughout the SDP mandate grew by only 179 kuna, even worse than that in 2015. It grew by 0.4%, which amounts to as much as 11.94 kuna. In the term of the government despite the pandemic, despite all the difficulties that have hit us not only the significant increase in the minimum wage but the growth of continuous pensions, the average salary, the median salary, the number of employees has never been higher since 2008. over here. So, we are today compared to old normal 2019. We have almost 15,000 more workers, compared to last 2020. 52,000 more workers. And none of that came in itself, none of it fell from Mars, but these are the results of good and successful management, however much it offends someone. Today, the share of the minimum wage in the average salary is more than 46%, in the median salary more than 55%, and with this increase of 350 kuna, the share of the minimum wage in the average salary will be almost 53% and the share in the median salary will be 62.5%. It should be recalled that 2016 That share was 38%. What changes this law? Only nine articles are replaced if I am not mistaken, those most important relate to the extension of the minimum wage definition and to the one agreed by a collective contract whose application has been extended. For example. Only one collective contract is currently extended to the Republic of Croatia and one for construction. What does that really mean? After the entry into force of this law for a worker who performs the most complex jobs in the construction sector and those relating to the 10th group of jobs, then the minimum salary of that worker will be considered exactly the amount prescribed by the collective contract, and this amount for the most complex group of jobs is 11.130 kuna, and this will be considered to be a minimum wage for the construction sector of the 10th group after the entry into force of this law. It's just one example. This law also changes that excessive nighttime work, work on Sundays, holidays, etc. that workers will be entitled to raise wages at least in the amount of the collective contract established, so there is no longer an increase of 1.2.3.5.6 kuna, in addition, encourages the adoption of collective agreements and encourages the strengthening of social dialogue, and the social partners themselves have expressed their firm will to step up the bipartite negotiation and conclusion of new sectoral collective agreements in the coming period. These amendments and additions also strengthen the cooperation of inspection bodies, i.e. the joint supervision of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, and, as you have seen in the law of the prescribed penalties for infringements, amounts from 60 to 100,000 kuna. As regards the very differences between the bill's proposal and the final draft of the law, they are minimal, so it is prescribed that the employer's obligation to amend work contracts by 1 February next year at the latest in such a way that the salary is contracted at a gross amount prescribed by this law and that this is no longer a net amount, if it does not, as I said earlier, is between 60 and 100,000 kuna. There have also been a lot of words here today about European minimum wages, I would like to remind you that 21 of the 27 EU member states have prescribed a national minimum wage for the exception of Denmark, Italy, Cyprus, Austria, etc. where the minimum wage is sectorally arranged, therefore in a different way, but it is arranged. The minimum salaries in the Member States last year amounted to between 312 euros and 2,142 euros, but what is the real question is that with that minimum wage in that particular country can indeed be and what is its purchasing power in terms of purchasing power standards? If we put that in line with the cost of kindergartens, the price of housing, then that picture changes completely. Why am I saying that? For example, the prices of kindergartens in Ireland and Luxembourg range from 800 to 1,200 euros. So, as far as the housing price index itself is concerned, Croatia is at 44% of the European average, while France, Luxembourg, Ireland, etc. At even 182%. And there's actually a real question of what I can do with a minimum wage in my country and what is its strength, what is its purchasing power? Since I still have a little time, I would also like to mention de minimis support or compensatory measures for employers who are in difficulty in the labour-intensive industries, first of all this refers to the wood, textile, leather industry they have the possibility of helping up to 200,000 euros and a million and a half kuna where these funds are paid for them to encourage or continue the preservation of jobs. The HDZ Club will certainly support the Final Proposal of the Minimum Payment Act. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67193	Next is the discussion of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67194	I thank the chairman. So this law doesn't really talk about the level of minimum wage but it regulates the system of definition of minimum wage payments, some newspapers are being introduced, we're being strengthened by some institutions that will oversee and control payment, but here I'm actually going to go back to the whole concept of minimum wages. So when the government wants to solve some problems in society, some problems that plague our citizens, especially their social status, usually comes with additional burdens on entrepreneurs. Like I said earlier on that folk, it's easy for someone else's money to kick ass. The best way to raise the minimum wage, both minimum and generally all salaries is to actually raise productivity and work. Therefore, real wages are made in production, not by any regulations, decrees or dictatorships of the government. So we need a rich society that will be the result of a developed economy, entrepreneurs who will breathe freely, create new values, and thus create new jobs and raise wages through productivity, and we do not need state intervention. Croatia wants to be or is a social state according to its constitutional provisions, wants to take care of all its citizens, workers, employees as well as employers. In this sense, the minimum wage is announced as one of the social measures that protects itself from poverty, but as we have heard here today from the secretary as a measure that young people can easily employ. It was not clear to me what was thought, in fact, the minimumer had nothing to do with the employment of young people. Why do young people leave Croatia? They don't leave because the minimumer is low or because it's a small minimum wage, but they don't want to stay in a country where they don't see hope that they can achieve all their ambitions in a fair match at all. Although it has always been followed through some populist phrases about the quickest for the weak, each minimum wage actually increases the cost of entrepreneurs and employers and ultimately leads to an increase in unemployment and decline in standards. So how best to protect your citizens? So we develop all the institutions, the legal framework, legal certainty that will guarantee equal rules for everything and thus be leveraged and enable the development of an economy that will lead to a richer society that will then be able to provide adequate care for all of its weakest and most needed. Croatia has the fifth minimum wage in the EU, Bulgaria, Latvia, Romania, Hungary are behind us, and we are slightly behind the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Estonia and Lithuania, so all of the countries that have significantly higher real GDP per capital, which means more productivity than Croatia. Here, as we heard here also, Italy, Cyprus, Austria, Denmark, Finland and Sweden do not have a legally regulated minimum wage, and we are talking about them in particular about these Scandinavian countries as social states with some perhaps socialistic features. In reality, it is about developed market economies in which competition is strongly developed, but also strictly regulated. I'm re-emphasizing the same rules of the game for everyone, so no godmothers, no party friends, no mine, no yours, our investors. Here we have a country that has recently been convicted of corruption, so in such a country we cannot expect to freely develop an economy in which workers will have the right wages to live with dignity. She mentioned a colleague of mine just before buying power, namely purchasing power in Croatia is a third lower than the EU average, so that's what the data in Eurostat says. As some analysts have said, for example, Here is Velimir Šonje in its blogs, productivity growth can come from investment in capital or from investments in modes of work and institutional framework that determines whether this capital and working in a wheel will be effective. Therefore, investment is important for productivity growth, but economic growth does not have to happen if investment is growing because growth depends on innovation and on how these investments are implemented, but also on institutions, on education, on the absence of corruption, on regulation and the rule of law, etc. So it's not about the amount of investment, it's about their quality, for example. You have a huge increase in investment when you invest in infrastructure, but if society is closed, corruptly then those tight networks will pick up creams and then there is no growth. So, the key is efficiency, not investment quantities, because effective investments create long-term and robust growth, which is more efficient, it means that open institutions are more important, openness as I said means that there are equal rules for all, so there are no gods, there are no our investors if this makes people trust institutions more and ultimately investors have greater legal certainty for their investments. In such societies where institutions function, failed companies fail and are not maintained as some kind of state-owned companies here on the burden of taxpayers. The social states really mean a significant redistribution, the state provides benefits for the unemployed, helps care for the children, the elderly, the needy, health, education and does so for social solidarity, but also for the framework for the functioning of the market, not the socialist economy. One interesting thing here, 2016. Before the elections, HDZ ordered one study from the Munich-based Ifo Institute, so it requested an analysis of the economic situation in Croatia and recommendations for its improvement. Among other things, the institute proposed the abolition of a single minimum wage, which was explained by the fact that a large number of workers in Croatia work for minimum wage, as interpreted by experts from the institute at the time, so employers have big problems paying even minimum wage, as such a hard part of employers are forced to keep workers black because they are much cheaper. If the minimum wage was not prescribed, German analysts would then be concluded in 2016, so a good part of the grey economy would be contained. In the free market, wages are usually positioned on their so-called so-called. the labour limit productivity, or the value that does not exceed the worker's productivity, because otherwise, the employer would pay more than the worker contributes to the company. The minimum wage law makes it difficult for those workers whose border productivity is below that minimum wage to find or keep a job at all, so why, if someone agrees to work below minimum wage, why not allow it. So the conclusion, the minimum wage usually and its increase usually increases unemployment and reduces standards. The trade unions, as we heard of course, supported the increase in the minimum wage in their statement, have told one truth, so we must strive to make the average wages in Croatia significantly higher, this is exactly what I was talking about, so measures to make the entire economy grow and the average wages significantly higher. When we talk about textiles, they are usually mentioned when talking about minimum wage, the workers in the textile industry are mentioned, and in this industry this will create a great burden on employers, they will increase their cost of production and that will be at the time of the economic crisis. We heard from HUP who said that this significant increase in minimum wage is not in line with the state of the economy today in Croatia and expect the government to immediately compensate for entrepreneurs from the most affected sectors. They therefore have the Association of Employers, bearing in mind the growth of inflation, the increase in gross wages since the beginning of the year and the current economic situation have proposed a slightly lower increase in minimum salaries by 2.5% and by 106 kuna respectively. In addition to the growth of raw materials, entrepreneurs experience a rise in the price of energy, electricity, gas in similar ranges, so it is inadmissible that certain monopolitical companies owned by a state or units of local self-government cost of their own irrationality and inadequate planning are irresponsibly transferring to entrepreneurs, here says the Association of Entrepreneurs. For the end here, to mitigate these effects, the government expects to implement compensatory measures for entrepreneurs from the most vulnerable sectors. a which should be defined and made possible while this Decision is in force. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67195	Followed by IDS MP Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67196	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So to recap, as of January 1st, the minimum wage will grow by 350 kuna, or it will be 500 euros. If we look at the EU average, then we can see that the minimum wage is, the average minimum wage in the EU is 700 euros, and in Slovenia it is 1,074 euros. Only Hungary, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria are worse than us. And if we think that's enough to live on, it's often been questioned today, the answer from the secretary of state we didn't get, even though we all know it wasn't enough. Dear colleague Buric asked what you could do with a minimum wage in your country. You can't cover the minimum consumer basket or answer to that hypothetical question was you can live because if the minimum consumer basket is 7.800 kuna, and if two adults work both for minimum wage means 500 euros each, that's 1000 euros, that's for some roughly 300 kuna less than the minimum consumer basket. We can therefore see that the Government is making these decisions that will spill over the back of employers, and only when the law, when they come into force on January 1st, when they pay, will we see how it will affect their business as well. In particular, we are talking about the leather industry, the textile, the wood industry, and we are already seeing their announcements that they will seek compensation measures, and then when I asked in the replica whether we are going to move in a vicious circle, it is proof that we will because then we will launch measures to preserve jobs and some others and we will spin in circles, although it is said that this is not the case. We have a rise in citizens who are working on a minimal, and unfortunately with this increase that will spill over the back of entrepreneurs, we have an increase in raw materials prices, we have an increase in energy prices and all this during this crisis period when our entrepreneurs are actually struggling to survive and I think the government can react, I think the government needs to react, but I don't think this is the way to react. I believe that when we talk about creating better conditions for entrepreneurs, we should talk about tax discharge, that's what our colleague Hrebak was talking about yesterday on the Open, I hope that there will be hearing about such announcements, I think that there will be a need to reduce red tape, I think that there is a need to improve the judiciary, I think that as much as possible digitise systems in a country that will thus be more productive and better worked and be at the service of our citizens. And if we are all expensive, we encourage production or production industry, if we encourage exports that we know are dispersing the risk, we know that we are reducing dependence on the national market, or we are expanding to other markets, and only business is less dependent on our domestics, when we know that this can lead to new technologies, new solutions, new knowledge, then I think that this is a path in which we should move, and I think that government decisions should go in this direction in which to create conditions, facilitate work for entrepreneurs, so that they can be more profitable, so that they can be more competitive on the market, so that they can make more money, and therefore employ more and provide their employees with higher wages. If we then see that there are some anomalies happening, that companies are being created, that there are bigger profits being created, that there are more jobs, and there's no wages going up, and then there's a state to intervene and protect workers' rights, and I think that's the way we should go, because especially if we see that we're missing more than 200 thousand workers, I don't know how we're going to make up for it, when we know that the first reason our citizens are leaving this country is a small salary, and when we see that we only have 1.3 workers on one pensioner, I don't even know how that system, the pension system is going to be sustainable, it would be best for our colleague Hrelja to say. So, all in all, I think we're spinning in a vicious circle, that without some vision we're making some decisions that are questionable about how it's going to affect the entire production system or economic system in this country, and like I said, we've only had a lot, it's not just that, but we've had a lot of luck that we've managed to have this great tourist season that's gonna patch up some deficits inside the budget, because when we see that we're in charge of over 91% of GDP, that tourist season was catastrophic, that would be over 100%, which would be an absolute precedent, and then that unprecedented investment would be questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67197	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honorable representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate. So I've already talked twice today about that it's totally unacceptable that you sent us the same text as the final bill after one particularly, I'd say, constructive debate that was after the first reading. No, I can't accept that, and that's why I'm gonna do it all the same as you. So, I'm gonna do my first-reading speech again here again. So in Croatia we have to remember that more than 52,000 workers are on the minimum and we also have to accept the fact that this number of people on the minimum is growing every day. Of course, this is linked to the consequences of the Covid epidemic, but we must also conclude that the Croatian minimum, despite the 36% increase in the last 5 years, again among the lowest in Europe, and I will repeat, the lower minimum wage has only Hungary, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria. The legislator in the introduction of the first reading summed up all the changes said that this allows for full application by the Constitution of guaranteed rights of every employee on a salary that can provide himself and his family with a free and dignified life. As much as we welcome certain changes that go towards the protection of workers and the increase of minimum wages, I don't think we should fool ourselves and rub our citizens' eyes. It is far from a salary that would give free and dignified life to a man, let alone a family with one or more children. Because the minimum wage in Croatia is not a dignified salary. One that allows you to cover all life costs, food, shoes, clothing, rents, directors, children's education costs, etc., minimum wage in Croatia for 3,000 kuna, and now there will be 3750 or 500 euros below the threshold of that dignity you speak of, it is earlier on the poverty threshold and I still have to rely more strongly on the amount of minimum wage that will truly guarantee a dignified life. In the green-left block, we believe that the methodology for calculating minimum wages, except for the criteria of relative inequality on the labour market, should also be based on the calculation of minimum cost of living in order to ensure that the minimum wage can indeed cover the basic costs of life and we believe that clearer criteria should be laid down for the calculation of minimum wage. According to the current proposal, the level of minimum wage is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Minister and after consulting with the social partners, taking into account criteria such as inflation, wage movement, unemployment movement, the state of the economy, etc., even though it is nominally about the existence of criteria, we believe that the criteria need to be regulated more clearly and the minimum wage should be tied to the percentage of the average wage, at least 60% of the average salary in Croatia. Although the legislator says that this Law does not regulate the issue of minimum wage but is governed by a minimum wage regulation, we see no reason why public criteria should not be explained and listed in this Act. We also believe that minimum rights should be regulated by legislation, and collective agreements should give the possibility of a more favourable right, not a minimum or even allow for a reduction of the right to collective.../incomprehensible/... through collective agreements. The introduction also states that the adoption of this Act allows for higher minimum salaries for workers working in activities where your collective agreements that have extended application comply with the general labour regulation, and what about workers who do not work in such activities, which are not covered by collective agreements? There is no question about the problem in this proposal. We welcome that, with extras for overtime, night work and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day, which are laid down by law as unworkable, and which are not included in the minimum wage, we now include difficult working conditions, but we believe that it is necessary to add that no other allowances are included in the minimum wage amount, e.g. Or the past war, so-called. i.e. The internship and the like, which are not clearly mentioned in the new changes, and we think they should be. Furthermore, the Law also adds that the collective agreement can determine that the minimum wage can be determined in a way that the minimum salary for an entire year is divided by an annual fund of hours and the minimum wage is calculated and paid in accordance with the minimum wage per hour and monthly fund, so that, I quote, employers in labour-intense activities where the number of working hours is directly reflected in productivity and will enable the employer to pay the wages according to the number of working hours per month, and, accordingly, in that case, do not apply the provision of the Labour Act on a more favourable right for workers. We strongly opposed such provisions because we stressed in the programme that norms should not enter the minimum wage and that such provision most affected workers in any of the worst paid professions, which, for example, have a seasonal character. It also seriously opens up a space for manipulations and additional decommissioning of already the weakest paid workers because it is difficult for them to have adequate supervision. A small door is introduced, namely, less than minimum wage, which is simply inadmissible. Such provisions are introduced under cover to help the fallen economy and the fallen industry survive, and in fact they represent the last nail in a coffin of exploitation of workers. In the past year, inspectors discovered that even 1689 workers did not pay even minimum wage, which tells us clearly that an important and urgent system of supervision and control needs to be strengthened. In conclusion, it takes as much and as soon as possible to increase the minimum wage to a level that satisfies the truly dignified lives of workers and their families. It is not only a matter of labour rights but it is a question of both demographics and effusions of personnel from Croatia because the only decent working conditions and decent wages enough for the needs of life, will motivate our young people to start a family, have children and stay in Croatia. Without it, we become a nation of over-preparation and poverty, doomed to naked survival without a real social perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67199	Following the debate of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67200	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the debate over these amendments and the addition of the Minimum Salary Act discusses the tragedy of Croatian society. History from the early 90s to today, about industrial relations and regulation of wages and labour rights so that they can even fight for wages, that's what I was talking about in my first reading. This time I won't, but I will really explain the amendments that a lot of them stem from what was and the debate and what they were and the union positions that we all got in the assembly benches and therefore made certain amendments. We speak, and I have often heard that social dialogue in Croatia exists, not that it is an attempt at social dialogue. Why am I saying try? Because we wouldn't be discussing here today if we had a social dialogue because the gentlemen of the HUP and the gentlemen of the union centres would come to the Prime Minister and say this is a collective agreement that regulates minimum wage, please announce it to the Prime Minister in the National Journal. We wouldn't lose and spend oxygen here today, bid on the cost of life or anything else. If one side is not satisfied, Croatia should stop, the general general strike should be. Then what are you looking for? They're both weak and easy to point at the third whoever they are, it's about the assembly and it's about the government. And now we have to arbitration because there was no agreement, but the government de facto or legislator said, let's give these up a little bit now, and now we're going to give in to those and take responsibility that doesn't have to be taken over, or because there have to be some civil civilizational standards when a man lives and belongs to the EU. Why are we changing this law? Because according to this law, there's still dirt and rules, it's being played, it's being written in the light of the law. Working on black and playing the rules on certain payments as regards salary supplements. That's why we're discussing it here. We don't bring a minimum wage amount that's true, but I say again about such a thing unions, the union address isn't even a council, it's not a government, but they're employers and I'm telling you as a leftist, as a former union officer who ended up in the Supreme Court for organising a strike. We need to know whose responsibility it is and whose job description it is. And I'm not going to waste oxygen here and argue in a way that we have cheap demagogy on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a fog sale. This is like the Labour Act, one of the key laws of one state, we, through the definition of minimals that in the government's regulation, determine the conditions and business in the Republic of Croatia, who liked it or didn't like it, but that's the case. That the amount as such does not satisfy me I think we all agree, but we don't decide here today and waste oxygen for nothing, and the fact is that whatever minimumer was not worthy and does not provide a decent life that is constitutionally guaranteed in this country and that's true and that's true. And I'm glad that at the 9th month when I discussed it, I argued that if we stick to our government's programme, but not as a priority in the HDZ election programme that we're going to have some scalar increase, so we got 3,750 kuna, and that means warm hope so we were alive and seen, I'm going to ride, that means that next year we're going to have 4,000, and then next year we're going to have 4,750 kuna, which is what minimum it is to stop people from running from Croatia because we don't have a competitive labour market price we're not competitive. And now I'm going to go to an explanation of the amendments that I think should be acceptable to everyone. I don't see any reason, and that's what the amendments are to the article. 2nd and second Article. 3. that even the difficult working conditions are not inserted into the law itself which excludes them from the minimum wage calculation. There's no one who doesn't ask, and there's no logic in there, only if you don't still think about allowing one particular window to hunt in a blurry one, and all of a sudden, everyone's gonna have difficult working conditions just so we can play the rules, you just have to follow the contracts, and you'll see that's how it's gonna be. Another perversion is, and this is the question in 2013, when the first law was passed, I will remind you that Croatia would enter the EU because otherwise the question of whether we would be discussing it today and whether we would be in the EU, which is the possibility of collective bargaining on the basis of which you can, with a dumped price or a 5% lower tariff than the regulation, but under the law. But we heard from the promoter that it wasn't even applied, so if it wasn't applied there's no reason not to delete it, because we're usually writing that if it's not defined otherwise, and that's the moment I hear that syntagma in some text of the law at that point I know that automism is meant for muttering. Therefore, there is no reason, it does not apply, it has not been applied because in the end, if we have employers who are in crisis, what will intervene? They'll be intervened by a collective contract at the expense of workers, bravo, bravo, bravo, it's the only solution we have. I don't think we're for that kind of solution. And Art. 8. I have seen many comment on what is justified, including the Committee on Law, that there can be an employer's obligation to amend the labour contract because it cannot be a unilateral act. However, I am asking that the Social Democrats Club be deleted or requested to be deleted. It's a very simple matter, and I'm going to say operationally why. I am an employer who I am in Zagreb, if this novel remains, or that I am obliged as an employer to offer to my employee whom I want to get rid of the contract I have to renew my work contract because I have to comply with this regulation what happens then? I'm sure I'll offer him a contract with a new minimal, but let's say the contract says his job is in Zagreb, and I transfer him to Rijeka, I got rid of him. So, through that legal provision, I can get rid of any worker I don't want anymore because I don't like his eye color, and that's why we're asking it to change, and there's nothing that might be. The only thing that is unilateral in this article, which is the rules on work, is that no one here says that the rules on work must be harmonised. And thirdly, it is also necessary to invite the parties to collective agreements to comply with this minimumer, and so we put it here only so that the employer can offer it to the worker and offer it in the way I said because unfortunately taking into account the need for a large number of Croatian employers, this application will apply. And that's why we're asking it to be erased. We are similar debates at least those people who know the practice and application of our regulations in labour law know that this is the case, and there was a similar debate in the Committee on Labour, which was reported by counterpart Davorko Vidovic. So I'm really appealing here to the fact that we have to put our heads together here and do something good for Croatian citizens when they're not already able to do it, and they're not able to do it either, and then we jump in because we're here for all citizens, not just workers. And that's the only way to kill the parole of cheap demagogy and the manipulation of citizens' feelings amongst other things, which is enough with this kind of manipulation of citizens' feelings and hear what citizens want to hear and, as a rule, the quality of the extreme political extreme right. So, I'm going to conclude now I'm going to say one thing, the same thing that's worth the vaccination, let's be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67201	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the respected representative Anja Simprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67202	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The subject-matter proposal for a law amending the minimum wage law is extremely important and has caused a lot of attention in the media area, but also here in the assembly, mainly because of the fact that it affects a large number of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who belong to the most vulnerable group of low-paid workers, but it also affects employers. The state here is in a ungrateful situation because it has to satisfy the interests of the two sides. Banally speaking, we have workers who want to be as paid as best as possible and on the other hand we have employers who want as little cost as possible to receive workers. 2020 It was particularly difficult for low-income workers, including those receiving minimum wage. They were the most exposed loss of jobs, but in short working hours. A large number of workers who receive minimum wage are located in the processing industry, and most of them work in textiles, clothing, leather, related products, rubber products, metals and wood processing activities, therefore in physically demanding jobs. The minimum wage currently amounting to 4.250 kuna gross and 3,400 kuna net in the first quarter of this year received just over 52,000 workers or about 4.7% of all employees in the country. To be precise, it took so long to receive them. Unfortunately, as we rarely experience the situation, the market is inexorable, individual employers as a strong party in a working relationship or simply to survive on the market find different bypass routes not to pay even a minimum wage in that amount. Lex Generalis, or the roof labour law, is clear and unequivocal and has prescribed that the salary is contracted in gross amount, however, this did not prevent individual employers from signing contracts with workers in which the salary is determined in the net amount. These workers, for example, did not benefit from tax redundancies because their wages would remain the same. In addition, such a worker would not feel at the salary supplements for example overtime, working on holidays, holidays, and all the above-mentioned ones particularly affected the lowest income workers as if they had not already been affected enough by the fact that they were working for minimum wage. During the last year, investigators found that employers had not paid a minimum wage for 1,689 workers and submitted indictment proposals on suspicion of committing 318 minimum wage violations. An even worse situation in which individual employers as a stronger party to the contractual relationship used a weaker position of workers implicitly influenced the real paid salary for the work done because they concluded agreements under which workers gave up the right to pay minimum wages, which is also not explicitly prohibited. At present, the minimum wage does not include an increase in wages from the base of overtime, difficulties in working conditions or other holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that they are not working. Although in this way there are indeed many categories that would not be much worse to consider the exemption of all supplements or the increase of wages contracted by collective agreements and labour contracts, such as past work, shift work, etc. The proposed law makes the final bill different from the first reading just nomotechnically, not contentically, as it is heard here. The aim of the law is for minimum wage to be both a social and a protective instrument. In the first reading, there were proposals which were not adopted that the minimum wage should be arranged in a way that exempts all additions as I have said, however, it is already explained that the legal increases to which the worker is entitled are prescribed by the general labour regulation and are already exempt from minimum wage. Decision in Art. The 5th proposed law should not be acceptable to anyone because it allows employers to pay a minimum wage less than the amount set by the government regulation, but no less than 95% think such situations should not be possible at all. Art. 8. The same thing that has been mentioned here several times is controversial because employers can unilaterally modify contracts that are a two-sided legal act, so the same should be achieved by consensus. The minimum wage in Croatia has increased more than 36% in the past five years, but unfortunately remains among the lowest in the EU. A lower minimum wage than Croatia has only Hungary, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria. Since the situation is being corrected year by year, which is also seen by the increase in minimum wage, all present here should have a common goal, i.e. the better position of workers, while also taking care of employers. Due to the irrefutable importance of these amendments and the addition of more precisely legal, but also any other security for workers to be derived from them, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Payment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67203	Following individual debates, the first reported representative Barbara Antolic Vopor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67204	Honorable MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Proposer. So, the Minimum Salary Act is something that has actually been announced already from the EU, something that countries in the environment already know and if they do not. Unfortunately for us, those who receive the minimum wage are constantly growing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There were 37 people who were on a minimum salary, and today that number of more than 52,000 people living at a lower rate prescribed as a minimum wage which should therefore be raised by 350 kuna with this new bill. If we look at how long it takes when you start shopping with what's most needed for your household, it's oil, bread, milk, half a kilo of meat, it's 100 kuna, so 30 days a month, and it's 3,000 kuna. Based on the union's calculations, what you need to survive the month costs 7,800 kuna. I will say that it is dignified and just that people who live in Croatia, and those who do not live with dignity and do not receive their incomes are more than a million. Why? Because with those figures that I've cited as recipients of minimum wages, it's also the ones that are less than minimum wage, which are pensioners. So, millions of people are under the poverty line or are in poverty itself. The solution offered by the government through the introduction and the increase in minimum wage is good, but what we may have drawn attention to is that the conditions in the economy are those which require future wage growth will nevertheless condition the good situation in the economy. I think we also ignored the part of the incentives for the economy in which it would be compensated in some way, and the future side, especially among those employers who employ the fewer employees who are the most vulnerable in the market to survive, gives decent salaries to workers, and these are very much because they want the salaries paid by their workers to have a satisfied and happy worker. It's impossible to be happy and have a decent life if that salary in all of what you earn is not enough to cover the cost of a basket, and that's 10,800 kuna as many unions have said it should be. So underneath that, it is impossible to experience and survive in Croatia with the incomes that people simply do by doing more work and it is some way to survive in Croatia is repeating what the Minimal Salary Act is trying to at least minimise the damage, but in the conditions in which we live today is insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67205	We have one replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67206	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. I come from Međimurje, and you from Varazdin County, but we can't exactly boast we have the largest number of employees in the low-paid sectors of textiles, clothing, shoes, plastics, furniture, leather. Here's the Međimurci we had 5,589 kuna average salary,you Varazdins are even a little worse than 5,482 kuna. You said it was and we all agree that it's actually not enough for some decent life, away from that consumer basket and what we need for a normal monthly life and survival. On the one hand, the big offer is still these low-paid workers, so let's call it that, in some ways, employers may be taking advantage of, and how to actually stimulate these more paid sectors to invest in this particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67207	So that's what I actually wanted and tried to draw attention to the conditions in the economy, the conditions in the economy that must in itself be such that they pay higher wages and that the consumer basket, which is the amount of pay that a person receives, is leaving 27% of that household budget on basics, while in Europe and America, that amount is 11% of the total income. So these relationships need to be changed to make people more worthy and better to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67208	It's 13 o'clock, now we're going to stop this debate for a while and we're going to take a stand. We return to the agenda of the individual debate, followed by the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67210	I thank Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Director. So here's a few words I'd like to say in this individual debate, I refer to the Minimum Salary Act as the lowest monthly amount a worker can take for full time. During the morning, two approaches to this law were heard, on the one hand it was one that advocated the view that the state should not enter minimum wages because it thus remains at market economy level and enables someone who, in fact, during their work, cannot earn the salary that the state prescribes by minimum wage actually makes it difficult for employers to work and those who claim that this minimum wage that will today... today, the government has passed its regulation that it is not enough for the worthy lives of our citizens who have the lowest income in Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It certainly is a minimum wage, a minimum wage of one type of state interventionism in the labour market. This is not disputed, however, such an approach and a minimum wage by the government's administrative regulation is also through the Minimum Payment Act in the European sense, and the EU is certainly a community of developed countries that rests on this single liberal market, the labour market, so a legal instrument is acceptable for such a community, and therefore, at that opportunity since 2013. We're in, we're in minimum wage. Supporters of opposition to minimum wages say that with a minimum wage, in fact, leads to an increase in the number, an increase in unemployment, an increase in economic growth, a black economy, and then a clear resulting decrease in revenues in the state budget, and there they tried to give certain examples. But for me, it is much more important that one of Europe's most developed and strongest economies, Germany has also introduced a minimum wage in 2015. And when many thought that by introducing wages, salaries of minimum wages in Germany would increase unemployment to what I just said about economic growth, etc. And the reduction in business activity happened exactly the opposite. The difference between the highest and lowest salaries in that country has been increased in Germany and has shown to be fully justified that the minimum wage in such a strong economy has received what the legislator, i.e. the German Parliament intended and the German government, which is to raise the quality of life and living standards in a highly developed Germany, by setting minimum wages. That's why I'm a supporter of minimum wage. I commend this fact that the government is now raising the minimum wage to EUR 3,750 and EUR 500, which is about 60% of the media salary or over 52 or 53% of the average salary, in fact, one appropriate response from the state to the situation in which we are. In any case, the state will take care of activities that are potentially like this, with such raises the minimum wage threatened, I mean less endangered, which are primarily the leather, textile and shoe industries. And that it will certainly be taken care of. I think that through the crisis of the state itself, the state has clearly shown that it cares about the preservation of the economy, the preservation of jobs, that it cares about the preservation of the liquidity of our entrepreneurs so that by introducing and prescribing relatively high minimum wages, the state will certainly respond in this way as it has so far. I must say that there is a commission proposing to the government a minimum wage increase and that, and that this commission has given a certain range between a slightly smaller increase and a slightly higher minimum wage increase. With this proposal, this regulation adopted today by the government, the government, for example, went to the top of this one proposal in the absolute amount of salary to be increased, so I will be a representative of this kind, or above all, of this law, and of the regulation itself. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67211	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67212	Dear colleague Bacic, I must give a review by listening to your debate. This change continues to leave in the gray zone of supplements on minimum wage, meaning for overtime, for working on the holidays. And this enables employers of two kinds of manipulation. It is that minimum wage is contracted at a minimum and workers work extra labor for minimum wage. So what you need is to define exactly the minimum wage and the additions to that minimum wage. And my next question is to tell us what your position is, the HDZ position and the government's position to work on Sundays, and why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67213	Dear counterpart Nikolic, as far as HDZ's position on Sundays is concerned, the proposal will come to the assembly very soon, the government's proposal on Sunday's work. I have, I have an attitude, I think that working on Sundays in accordance with the international convention, which, under the circumstances, prescribes work in the week, which requires one work, a 24-hour day to make it possible for workers to rest, and in accordance with traditional circumstances, so if you want to do the worldly work, so if you want most people's religious feelings, then it's Sunday. I, too, advocate to make it impossible to work on Sundays, but it should be kept in mind that such a law does not fall in the Constitutional Court as already 2 laws have failed to take account of proportionate measures that would on the one hand protect those who are necessary, obliged to work on Sundays and those that the law would allow to not work on Sundays. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67214	The next replica is the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67215	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, in the Republic of Croatia, the regulation regulates the amount of minimum wage and is one of the important social and economic measures. I believe any government and ours would prefer not to intervene and regulate minimum wage. In some ideal conditions it would be, a minimum wage would be a market instrument even a corrective justification for the existence of certain companies that are on the labour market but cannot pay wages. It is, of course, difficult to achieve, even more developed countries than we prescribe minimum wage. First of all, in order to protect workers, but to protect those employers who pay their salaries neatly, unlike those who don't pay their wages but leave the extra income to themselves, because, I'd like to hear your opinion about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67216	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67217	I thank my esteemed colleague, I am, I think, in my opening part and I have answered your question. So I think that's part of the state interventionism in which the government must have that sense of balance. On the one hand, to make it possible to receive wages, salaries, minimum salaries that enable employees to have a clear life in Croatia. On the other hand, the employer should also be taken into account so that this minimum wage would not be too much of a burden on the precisely profitable activities and it is therefore an obligation for the State to prescribe at all such a salary of EUR 500 which it today has prescribed in the net amount, notices and takes account of what it means and what effect it will have on employers who may not pay such wages at this time. And in doing so, we need to make sure that other than the increase in the minimum wage, it pulls it automatically. an increase in the entire company. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67218	Next replica, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67219	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, and this is exactly what you have pointed out. Balance between the one part of the maximum wage increase, on the other hand the preservation of these jobs. Several years ago, the government also launched compensatory measures through HZZ, which are up to 200,000 euros precisely for the most vulnerable sectors of the skin, wood, textiles, but is also said in all these sectors that the government's policy is to reach 50% of the average wage and 60% of the media that they can expect and that their transformation in terms of and automation, digitalisation, improvement of the business process to preserve these jobs on the one hand, while on the other hand ensuring increased productivity and growth of wages in the sector. Therefore, it is parallel to two colossals with one sector and the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67220	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67221	I thank my colleague Pavić. I think that you here at the board of directors defended these amendments to the law when we determined the compensation measures which are precisely those of low-income activities have enabled compensatory measures to compensate for the possible loss due to the payment of the minimum wage then. I agree with you, and I said so myself, it is necessary to monitor how these things are going to happen, but we must not interfere with the idea that the state has made it possible for its tax reforms over the past 4.5 years to reduce the cost of work, and then it went in favour and employers, so who and the activities you mentioned earlier, that I am not saying, for example, that a reduction in profit tax by 20% is a significant reduction in the profit tax rate which allows the company to keep some of the money instead of paying the tax with itself and thus compensates for any such changes that the government has prescribed today.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67222	The time, the next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67223	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I will do more about mathematics than about these lunches we heard on the side of the opposition because we remember ourselves and other governments who had the same opportunities and didn't do anything, and mathematics says the following means in 2015 we inherited a minimum wage net of 2,423 kuna, according to the new decision 3,750 kuna, so we have one growth that says that we grew almost 1.327 kuna in six years, so let's put it that way, so when we count it and multiply it by 12 months we're talking about the amount that reaches nearly 16,000 kuna. Comparing that with 2015, you have almost four and more minimum salaries more. Just this increase 350 kunas a month times 12 months it's 4, 5,500 kuna more, it's another one that 13 let's call a minimum wage that is a burden to employers, but we said that we listen to them and that again through compensatory measures we will try to make up for what will surely lose with such one payment, paying off such wages. That's what people need to know. Whoever's against it we've heard, our opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67225	Well, I'll do the opposite, but I won't do the math, I'll do the political approach now. This is the second reading of the law in the first reading of the SDP law then spoke on behalf of the club Mr Fabianić, now on behalf of the Social Democrats Club he said that he expects the government at the end of the year and that it would be very good to increase the minimum wage net by 300 kuna, and we have increased it by 350 kuna and again today we hear that it is not good, that it is not a good law nor a regulation of good, etc., etc. So as much as we increase the salary, and we increase as much as we think it is appropriate to help the store, and on the other hand, it does not endanger the employer so much on the other hand there is no such answer except for the criticism of the real suggestion on this law I do not see, and if it comes, I am sure that the government will accept such an amendment. Therefore, I support everything you said because there were even suggestions that you should not have minimum wage but should increase the personal income tax deduction. It should be said that two-thirds of all Croatian workers do not pay income tax at all since you have raised a personal deduction to At 4,000 kuna, there are still many elements.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67226	The next replica of Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67227	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. As you said at the outset, indeed, some colleagues advocate the market economy and oppose the institution's introduction of minimum wages as a burden on employers, however, it would once again point out what the government does for employers. Since the beginning of this year, we have had a number of amendments and additions to the laws that so-called. The fifth round of reforms further relieves citizens and entrepreneurs, so that they are totalled by 10 billion kuna. For example. Only 93% of employers with incomes of up to 7.5 million kuna no longer have a profit tax of 12%, income tax is reduced from 24 to 20 and from 36 to 30, are further disbursed and additional funds are paid to raise business competition as much as 1.4 billion kuna, 820 million kuna has been paid for research projects. We must not forget how much funds are allocated to help now Because of this pandemic, how many jobs [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Almost everyone else is saved. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67228	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67229	I agree with my colleague, Martinchev Juričev, and I think that during yesterday's annual report on government work, we cited the many measures that the state during this pandemic time has devised here in the assembly to help preserve one side of the work, and on the other hand care for Croatian employers, and in part with these measures that you mentioned. Compared to the size of our GDP, Croatia is the most of all countries behind Malta, and I apologize behind Malta in these pandemic times, and it would not save the real sector, save jobs and preserve the same employers. And that it was a good, good project, good job, good decision best says facts here today we heard that next Wednesday we're going to discuss the rebalance of the state budget according to which growth in this year seems to me to be about 9%, so we're getting bigger growth than we are in the hardest the challenging year was the fall of GDP.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67230	The next replica is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67231	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague. So I don't want to challenge anyone's right to their opinion to speak of this law, but we rarely had the chance to hear anyone here from 2016 to today with today's increase in minimum wage increased by 1.254 kuna. Now, you tell me if it's better if the salary's up or not, and people are criticizing it again like nothing happened. So, let's say the salary went up, she's small, but she's certainly a lot bigger than she was. And please comment on whether it is logical for us to compare ourselves with developed European countries if we know that we are the last to join the EU and that we are actually still in that first package of resilience and access, or withdrawing money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67232	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67233	I thank my colleague Simičević. One we seem to have forgotten the instrument is very important, which was also brought by the government in this pandemic time. In order to disbursement employers of payment obligations, on the other hand helping workers to receive higher salaries, the state or government has proposed and made a decision to raise an untaxable part of the salary, untaxable fees at 12,000 kuna per year. When you share it with 12 months, so every month the government could still pay for what it paid for and what it paid for the donations and contributions and taxes it could still give the worker 1,000 kuna without having one kuna per month to go to the state budget. Therefore, we have shown this social sensitivity when it was most important, and on the other hand, I repeat, and there are government representatives, and it is important to take care of that as well. which ensures that such a decision would not be made... [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67234	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67235	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We are now talking about minimum wage, the prime minister boasts with an increase of 350 kuna, but we are aware that this is far below enough for a dignified life. So let me remind you, according to the monthly data from the State Department of Statistics, pay less than $3,800 a month receives about 13,000 employees in legal persons without people working in craftsmen. If 52,000 workers are on the minimum means that something slightly above the permitted limit is almost 100,000 workers, of these 52,000 workers are working in the wood, leather and textile industries. Furthermore, the median net salary in September was 6.014 kuna, which means that each other employed or 680,000 workers made less than that amount, and the other half more. So 13,000 people have a monthly net salary higher than 11,000 kuna, but far, far larger number much less. The lowest average monthly salary paid per employee in the legal persons for July is paid in the activities of the production of coke and refined petroleum products of 10,624 kuna and the lowest paid in the work of clothing production of 4,462 kuna. The average monthly paid net salary per hour for July was 39.42 kuna. The median net salary for July was 6,000 kuna, while the median gross salary was 7.788 kuna. Why am I saying all this? In northern Croatia, where I come from, low-paid jobs are prevailing, it is a good part of the sectors in which women dominate the structure of employment, so textiles, clothing, retail trade and in which are dominated by a qualified, highly qualified and medium professional education structure. Although we in the north, the Međimurci are especially famous for working people so our employees in Međimurje County have long been the weakest paid in the country with an average salary of 4,653 kuna yet 2016 at the bottom of the county ladder, 2019 that average salary increased by about 20% to 5,589 kuna and now we are no longer at the beginning is now below us Virovitica-Podravska County, the average is 5,261 kuna. On the one hand, you have fewer free workers on the market, enough companies in our area, in order to hire all these workers employers actually have to raise salaries, but here again we come to questions about the relationship with the worker and the message you are all replaceable. The amendments to the laws that we have received go towards adding to the salary due to difficult working conditions, work on Sundays and overtime, exemption from minimum wage or on the basis of a collective contract are counted on minimum wage. It is therefore about increasing the minimum wage for those who have a collective contract and who actually satisfy the nature of the business of those conditions. But what about those who do not have a separate collective contract? There are various irregularities, many citizens have actually been addressed to me by talking about concrete examples from our areas where workers are afraid to report to the labour inspection are not unionally joined and there are no one to protect them. During 2020, employers were found not to have paid a minimum wage for 1,689 workers. The State Inspectorate has filed indictments on suspicion of committing 318 violations under the Minimum Salary Act. What are concrete examples that people have set for me? Annual vacations count on the day of the holiday or the holiday, not having a week's vacation, not being able to use the days off because there's no one to work, not being paid all the overtime hours, and what can these people do now? So, they're not protected by a collective contract if it's a company like this they don't have union protection, whether to wait for regular inspection, whether to wait for a misdemeanor or a criminal offence, whether to send some anonymous applications, how to help these people, and the example is unfortunately a lot. Is there a tax administration, a state inspectorate, the Ministry of Labour, in any case these people are unprotected, and such employers who make such harsh mistakes and break the law of course that they should be sanctioned is just a question of when the state inspections will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67236	We have a few replicas. The first is Boška Ban Vlahek's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67237	My dear colleague, I'm glad you're looking back at the ending we both come from. We are witnessing that Međimurje stands well on Croatia's map. The Međimurians are hardworking and hardworking people, but you pointed out the problem of leaving an increasing number of workers abroad. It is close to Slovenia, close to Austria, close to Hungary. A lot of Međimurci goes out to work, someone has said a minimum wage there before, the basic salary is EUR 1000, which is really great proof that the Međimurci don't stay with us. However, we are also witnessing the arrival of a lot of workers from the outside, specifically That's right, tell me what a particular state should do for example in Međimurje County, given that we've really developed a county to stop our residents from going out and that they're living quality again because we all know that the cost of living has increased and that this minimum wage really isn't enough to survive. [[Intruder: Nepal.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67238	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67239	Thank you very much. So that's actually a very complex question. We're talking about minimum wage here, and as we said, it's not enough, not close to a union basket or to the sum of 10,000 and something kuna that would actually take as much normal life as it is. Yes, we are near the border of Slovenia, Austria and even Germany, many people go there. As much as there's an educational structure in our area, it's hard to actually say, we have highly educated personnel. Local self-government is trying something through entrepreneurial zones, opening up actually an opportunity for different companies to come here. You have foreign investors and owners there, but there is certainly a state on the move to make tax relief and increase that level of minimum or average wages actually easier for our people to stay there. So I'm saying it's a very complex question and it's hard to answer that question now, but it's, I think there's a government in a lot of segments on the move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67240	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67241	Dear MPs from the ranks of the ruling today have heard information, or data about which I have really heard nothing from our ranks. First we heard earlier that someone in the opposition said it was against 13 salaries. That's what I didn't hear. Furthermore, we heard one piece of information just before from a speech that can even be checked in the tone recording that this minimum wage is relatively high. Gentlemen, if he is relatively high, let's tie the salaries of state officials and parliamentary deputies to that minimum wage. So let's agree that our salary is then 3 or 4 salaries minimum wage, so let's see how well we live. Let's see. We speak from a position when we have a salary 6 times the minimum wage and say pay is relatively high. No, because they can't live on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67242	Answer. Please, please don't.../incomprehensible/... do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67243	Yes, thank you very much. I don't think anybody has a fair look in their eyes and a mirror can say that this minimum wage is enough to live with. That I believe we all agree. So, taking out the percentages I heard in that first debate, or when it was the first reading, and now, as far as this government is concerned with the SDP, I mean when you have a man who gets 3,500, 600 kuna per month, or how little increase is going to be now that the prime minister announced, so he, I mean, he's miserable, he's desperate. How can we say that this minimum wage is enough? So we can strive that this minimum wage regardless of the percentages with which colleagues are praised, how much they have raised in relation to our governments, so workers and people who work for the minimumer are not interested. So they're interested in being able to survive and actually make ends meet from 1st to 1st, or from 1st to 30th, so let's do it to raise not only those minimum wages but also the average salary. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67244	The last replica, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67245	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Maric, I think we're a little hypocritical when we talk like this. I think every increase is a good increase. If 350 is less, higher, medium, someone will benefit from the 350 kuna. But I would have a little saw turned upside down. What do you think of companies that have good balances, that do business with profits, which pay or pay for workers who work for them. Therefore, not everything can be spilled into the government's lap, the prime minister. The real partner relationship of a man who works must be paid for that work. But we have a lot of employers who don't want to pay their workers, and they know they're making them a profit. The government has done a lot in these few tax reforms. How many employers today pay that they do not have to pay these 12,000 kunas approved by the government? Very small or almost no one. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67246	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67247	Thank you very much. Yeah, you're one part right. So, there's actually a firm that doesn't now list them where you are at this top of the company paying off big profits, and the workers actually work for churches and tell them you're replaceable, right? Everything is nice that you say, so 350 kunas are not to be thrown. Well, no one here has said that we'll be against raising someone's income for any reason. But it's the government that has to make tax reliefs, which, by dispensing entrepreneurs and various other measures, actually enable that, and of course legal provisions by encouraging for, I don't know now I'm not an economist, so I can't tell now how much the government can order someone to have a collective contract, a contract of work, etc., but I suppose some things can be regulated after all. People are stimulated to join unions, so they'll probably make it possible with more than that, then here's the worker to at least as much protection as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67248	Next individual debate, respected representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67249	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, good day, nice greeting to all and I can say that I am a little surprised and saddened when any criticism of the opposition or attempt to constructively discuss something that should be done differently or more quickly, yes, the opposition is against raising people's minimum wage. It's just not true and it just doesn't stand. And of course every raise of minimum wage is something that at least on some declarative level should have the support of each of us. It's a minimum of decency that we should have, given that our salaries are indeed 15, 16, 18, 20 thousand kuna, and we're talking about people who have so far had 3,400 kunas per month. So, the vast majority of them have been working for 5 or 6 months for one parliamentary salary. And, of course, if we go to index that growth of 350 kuna, it's bound to mean something to those people in life and something in life to bring and make it easier. But the key question we want to reach with our discussions is whether we can agree that this minimum wage today is not a salary that is enough to live in the Republic of Croatia. And that salary takes cca 50,000 people to go further and further into the categories, they'd break through 100,000 as the colleague Maric penetrated, and then we could count the pensioners we have several tens of thousands with the average and below the average of 2.564 kuna. Is it possible to function and live especially in this time of day when we are obviously coming into the phase that inflation and movements in the world economy will make us, I guess, once again, start these famous structural reforms that we are constantly talking about, and we're not doing anything about them because what happens today with energy prices and the price of raw materials and with the price of food and with the increase of all other life costs that people have, I'm not sure that at the end of the day, if 350 kuna continues like this, it will be enough. The gas is now fixed, the gas has been reported to be up to 1.3, 1.4, what do we do after that? Today it doesn't seem like something's about to stop and it's about to go the other way. And that's why we would give much more and more support in this debate if we had a final distribution of how we were going to distribute the social wealth that definitely exists. Here, I won't even go in as anyone comes to him in some stages of conversion and privatisation. And we're not just gonna get to that with a discussion about the minimum wage lift. For this we need a debate on taxation of luxury taxes, dividend taxes, capital taxes, ultimately reinvestment taxes, so maybe we can scratch to see how we tax on luxury, and then we go a little further and finally make fiscal decentralization of the state, so that the funds stay where they're being created, because today it's a few times mentioned, which is all and not just the HDZ government did, what all governments did to make it possible for people to have bigger salaries and how these tax rates were raised on income. Now I'm going to be mayor for a while. Well, it's easy for people to pay and it's easy to say that you're doing something like the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister when you never give up on God your income. Income tax is the income of local self-government units. And every finance minister is definitely a genius from all the parties he's come from because there's a way for people to raise salaries even though he doesn't even talk about his incomes that would eventually have to change his expenditures. So raising people's wages isn't that simple at all. Not to say it's a lot simpler than any of us can imagine. And so that crucial debate would be to focus at last once how much it takes for a normal life in Croatia. Let's face it, no matter how hard it is. In which way we are willing to make a social distribution of wealth because this wealth definitely exists and through smart tax policies it can be rerouted so that we do not have such discussions on the Minimum Payment Act. But what we are willing to do with the changes in our tax policies, profit tax, luxury tax, property disproportionate tax, which we have also very, very long escaped from and a whole set of other tax packages with which social redistribution can be made. Until today, we have not yet shown our willingness to talk about it. Today, entrepreneurs are also mentioned several times, of course, that there are entrepreneurs who cheat on their people, there are entrepreneurs who would be happy to pay a lot more than the minimum wage so they can't, so they might as well make it easier for them to discuss tax policies and cutting parafiscal burdens that are probably the slowest for us in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67250	Here, we have one replica, the respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67251	Dear fellow, in the tourism sector or shoe production, minimals are unfortunately for the simple reason that the reality is because it is low-profit industries that are exposed to very harsh competition with cheap labour. Unfortunately, this increase in the minimum wage for employers in Croatia is precisely in that branch, instead of improving the material situation, it could mean quitting. The additional problem is that it is usually less educated or less educated and low-skilled workers, and in larger cases in the elderly population who can hardly find their jobs in the event of cancellation, so I ask you to consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67252	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67253	So in your question there is also a mix of very many policies and a lot of things we should all do together. From the fact that we have an education system that is still in the mass of pedagogical standards remains in the time of ex Yugoslavia which is certainly not exactly a deposit for the 21st century until with tax policies we've brought people to work so that we have a situation, and we know very well in the north, that there's an inspectorate working really who works and catches every account that isn't fiscalized, and then you go somewhere else and you see that there's no fiscalization and that the people of the minority are paying themselves on black today. So without a strong political will to stop talking only about the Minimal but to see how our education will follow the needs of the labour market, but also how these people will have a decent salary, so they might think about going into some professional interest that we'll hardly turn this situation around, and I'm afraid that the Corona has also driven a lot of things in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67254	Next individual debate, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67255	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Again, one debate that has gone wrong for me since this morning, with some kind of opposition to attack what was clear on the day before yesterday, means that the government will make one decision and then it has mixed up a little regulation and legislation, so let's just in this mix pretend that we're Social Democrats to protect employment, and at the same time we're protecting employers and we're attacking them at the same time and we just come at this time as it just got all mixed up, that the law really... regulation something else, but the simple facts are irrefutable. Yesterday the government president came here and said the government will today pass a regulation that will increase the minimum wage from 3,400 to 3,750 kuna net in gross even more. And now the most important tasks were the opposition not to discuss what happened but to kill that messenger who said one news that should be in favor of workers, at least to the Social Democrats or the Social Democrats in two levels that they stand in their own way, that they say what they are offering except that we have listened here today to some incredible and illogical things, so someone has declared it that we have said that this is the poverty line that is allowed, that we are covering that border. Who said that here? No one, just a fiction. Like us, we don't know what world we live in, and we don't know that this isn't enough for one normal life, but a minimum wage does it that way. So they've known minimum wage in the government since 2008. and some other HDZs and SDPs. Now I'm going to give you history to see how that went, so you're going to tell me why it's 2,423 kunas in 2014 and '15. It was enough for that life and then there was no poverty, so you're going to convince me of that story and then I'm looking at which argument is better or stronger. But attacking the messenger, why did you bring that regulation when she just didn't know us now, for good or what? So I think that every year we've done it for the benefit of workers and there's a historical review that's happened year after year, an assessment of what's going on between employers, trade unions or social partners and governments who have this one option, there's no one else. We even dispute the government that she can handle it through debates and say that salary should be 7,000 kuna. Do you agree in the social democracy with it, to be 7,000 kuna, but don't tell us what to do with the employers. Well... the non-taxable part of 5,000, but then don't run to the government and say that our local budgets have dried up that there's no money. So what are we doing? So we're trying to get that story together that it has its own sustainability, and now we're surprised all of us between us that this is happening through these discussions, that we hear that we're bad actors, that we can't play great, that we're all professional actors. So what kind of debates are these? You want help to make it work so someone gets more. Let's go back to the past 2015. 2,423 kuna, 2016 2,496 kuna, meaning 60 kuna more, 2017. 2,620, 130 kuna higher, 2018. 2,751 here we grow to 130 kuna more, so 2019. 3,000 means 250 kuna more. In 2019, it was a better year, we remember it, no, so we go to 2020 with 3,250 nets, I speak all online, so we go to 2021 with 3,400 in 2022 with 3,750 all online. The increase in these six years is 1,327 kuna, we only speak monthly during that period, and then annually it is almost 16,000 kuna. I was talking about those four salaries almost more, minimally, so is that a burden to employers in the leather I don't know about the textile industry? So we know it's a burden, so we're listening, I was listening to an employer yesterday. He says give us compensation measures, so we said we'd be given and we've already given, why don't we give them because we have this opportunity to give them. But why put them in the same rank and workers and employers immediately, and with this decision, they all fail. These dissatisfied that they got more, and these even more dissatisfied because they had to give more. So what are those logics? So if someone in five years in the same industry got 16,000 kunas more than that while this government was not, who is trying to get these workers more. Well it's not that little, it's four salaries more minimum, just this increase, this is the biggest increase of 350 kunas so far no, it's another one, it's a total of about 4.5 thousand that's another minimum pay more. And we know it's a problem for employers, but we also give it to workers. Why are you against it? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] That's what's bothering us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67256	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67257	Dear colleague Boric has been injured by an article. In 238, he miraculously wonders and calls for parliamentary representatives because we are against the proposal of this amount of minimumers. Since morning, we say that we welcome any increase that will help the worker, but do you think that this amount of minimum wage is enough for a worker, a man who makes a fair living to survive and feed his family from the first to the first in the month? I'm asking you nicely, openly, please answer only yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67258	You used this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was actually your replica. Did you think of the replica or did you give a breach to the Rules of Procedure... [[Intruder Boric: Warning.]] And in 238, you have a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67259	Well...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67260	Followed by the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67261	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You, I've already said that you're a master of defiling what the opposition is trying to constructively discuss and give some of its proposals, to warn of what we see on the ground. No one is against any increase, so anything that increases our man at least means something. The fact is that within the EU, we have a higher minimum wage only than Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia and Hungary. You tried that if I understood correctly that there is now some balance trying to create between employers and what the government is offering as an increase. So how do you comment on HUP statements that unsatisfactory employers are by increasing the minimum wage by 350 kuna and say their proposal to increase by 106 kuna would be more appropriate to economic criteria. Does it mean that they agreed that Prime Minister Plenkovic would promise greater increases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67262	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67263	Dear colleague Maric, I said that this decision, as well as every year, is a compromise between 3 partners, means a government that has the only option to make such a decision, social partners representing trade unions and employers representing their own, employers who pay these salaries and we know how many people we work with, we know that we have 52,000 on minimum salaries, of which you have brought statistics, 20,000 in these most difficult words to industries, textiles, leather, etc. Threaten that industry with a desire to raise our salary to those 7,000. Peovic to cover those costs of life means that 20,000 people no longer work. Can we make some kind of administrative move? I think no, there are conversations about it, which is why we went further to get it up because we're going after what we said as a government a year and a half ago when we presented the program that we want it to be by the end of the term and more if it's possible than 4.250 kuna online. And we're doing it, and now it's bothering someone. [[Intruder: Time]] I know why it bothers you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67264	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Davorka Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67265	Dear fellow, politics is not allowed to lie, but it is possible to go around the truth or not to tell the truth. I wouldn't be replicating you if you didn't have such a terrible need all the time to brag about something that wasn't exactly how you put it out. Do you know your esteemed colleague that they were seven years ago? Slovenia and Croatia have the highest minimum salaries of all transition countries? Do you know it's in these 5 years? The HDZ mandate, which you are talking about with so many epithets that Croatia is at the beginning, rather than more in the leading place, has overtaken us in these 5 years. Estonia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Slovakia and Poland with a higher gross minimum salary than Croatia? So it's all relative, if we compare misery to misery, we always get misery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67266	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67267	I must admit that I haven't heard this last part, but colleague Vidovic, you've been a politician for a long time and this debate was held in 2013 and '14. And '15. When you were also a Social Democrats, but you weren't in the assembly then because you were in some other functions and you told your government why you were holding minimum wages at 2,400 kuna, is that the poverty threshold that we could stand at the time, that you said why you had it in 3 years? Raised for 60 kuna online, for 60 kuna 2013, in '14. And in '15, I would understand. You are a credible politician who fights both his own and attacks those who help or want to give more. But then nothing's gone wrong, everything's fine, we can survive and 2,400 kuna net, and that was fine. And what people have resented for you, that basic message of workers and workers you are constantly calling upon to never step into their defenses, i.e. That you have destroyed all their rights, reduced their wages and that's why you left in 2015. it was a fact they wanted to admit or not. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67268	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67269	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Boris, the aim of the law is to make minimum wage both a social, of course, and an economic protection instrument. Many have already said that in their discussion. We're aware that minimum wage isn't as much as the workers would like it to be, but the fact is that it's in the last 5 years. has grown to over 1,300 kuna, as you said in your debate. Surely it will not stop that this government will go when there is an opportunity to raise minimum wages, but of course it should preserve the sustainability of the system and work as hard as possible and increase that minimum wage as much as possible at this point. What I would like you to look back on is a violation of a collective contract or a failure to pay the lowest agreed wages or a non-payment of salaries, and how, at least in due course, to reduce the breach of that collective contract?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67270	Thank you very much, colleague. So what I'm looking at as an ordinary man regardless of our political... the relationship between workers and employers and exclusively their relationship. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government mediation in part to tell you this is a minimum you're not going under and it's going to be that big in 2022. It's up to you to respect him. The law still provides many other opportunities to prevent the abuse of contracts signed, to introduce misdemeanor provisions for what employers did, but if you expect the government to control all millions and 600 thousand jobs in each segment and each part of the contract, so there are services that enter into control, there is an inspectorate, there is a tax administration, there is, I know, a system that has the right to enter into each contract and let it control. It's up to us to maybe strengthen that system, and that's what we all want it to be then and just as fair as it can be, but to deny that this is bad. That this is good, so we've been listening to it all morning and the reasons why it's not good. Just because the HDZ government did it. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67271	Replica next, respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67272	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, here's to keeping something from hanging in the air, no one here has said that the opposition against raising a minimum wage, but as far as I'm sitting there, I haven't heard that this same minimum wage has grown by 1.254 kuna in 2016. And what I haven't heard, and I don't know, you can comment, that no one has offered a proposal. I'm the same for it to be a minimum wage of 7,000, so if you need more, but we have to find a way to solve it. Can we at this point be so boastful and not tell the demagogue so talk about these things, and actually we don't have, we don't have cover for what we're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67273	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67274	Thank you very much. Col. Simičević, we go through this every day in every debate, so for HDZ and this government of the border i.e. A line that has to skip the most. Here today, Luxembourg, a country of 450,000 people, GDP one of the largest in the EU had a completely different arrangement and way. industry or what they're dealing with and they're working on from all of us, no. That's our border today set by Mr. coat of arms, no. When we have a minimum wage like those in Luxembourg, it's like we've had it so far, so here we go again, we'll be first. First of all, and we were never first. We are the last to enter that EU when everyone has already used 7 years of certain benefits and the EU is constantly having a debate when we are going to. When they were power, I remind it now, I remember it, I'm their factographer, which they were doing no, because it's not good. Well, then it's all good, and then those wires are down on the floor, and we can skip any one of them. It's that conflict verbal, political here to realize that it's not all It is simple and that this effort should be appreciated. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67275	The next replica, the respected representative, Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67276	You had only one small drop in concentration because you spent a lot of your discussions on how the government raised the minimum wager, and now you've responded to your colleagues and colleagues in a way that will not involve the government in terms of workers and employers. It's quite an interesting style twist in the debate. But that doesn't matter now. So, I've tried to boost the debate on several taxes and on several tax changes. So, I don't care about 2015, or what Peja Grbin said, or what Sanader said in 2007, or 2001. Racan. Do you really think there's no need to discuss the redistribution of social wealth, the redistribution of the income tax to stay where it is created, the different tax on income, and not to give it up, and the local units only ruled out, the taxation of wealth taxes, the taxation of luxury taxes, the taxation of dividend taxes. So, about a whole set with which we could redistribute wealth differently and move faster towards some of the figures that we want to achieve and according to today's fiscal decentralisation [[Intruder: Time.]] 90 10. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67277	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67278	I'm glad you're the local one in charge of a good city, and I believe you're doing it well, but then you have to tell your colleagues. When they're seeking to raise an untaxable share of income tax at 5,000 that automatically takes it into the cash register of local self-government and that it's not just us that would do something as administrative as we could here, but still not in this way that you said we're arbitting no. It's because it's our authority. And contracts between the employer and the worker are their relationship that the state can control. That's what I said. Don't twist. And fiscal policy leads, so I think we've shown in five years, five rounds of tax reform. Every year before the end of the year, we said what was waiting for us next year. And I think it showed in local self-government a certain fiscal capacity greater than it's ever been before. There are also those who were smaller, here we are watching the City of Zagreb see how it is tortured. If we want more then we'll have another kind of debate then it's no longer this debate worker, employer. Then it's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67279	Next replica honoured representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67280	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Boric, that the government did not memorize all this and that the government is responsible and that the government is really visible from the decision made by the Minister on 29 March 2019 to establish an expert committee to monitor and analyse the minimum wage movement, right. So in there, the committee was this.../incomprehensible/... two union representatives and multi-level associations, two representatives of a multi-level association, three representatives of the academic community, economic experts in the relevant.../incomprehensible/... and one representative of the National Statistics Office. So the government has consulted experts on how much they will be able to increase, in which segment they will be able to increase, when they will be able to increase, I think that's how it behaves and responsible the government that really cares about the worker getting minimum wage. And how much pay will not be decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67281	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67282	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I also know the time when the minimum wage was determined by the State Statistics Institute, she would publish in the National Journal so much and there weren't many problems, she was always the same every year. We're talking about the time of this government that in two terms raised it by 1.327 kuna online. And that's not a small amount compared to what we inherited as a government by some other government. And it should not be troubled in a way that the opposition is against it and against this law because it is not good for them as an opposition. If they still want to deal with workers as Social Democrats, then you'll be for this, for the worker. But they're obviously dealing with everything, and that's why we're the problem. Which we're dealing with certain problems, and this wasn't memorized. This is in the conversation between employers, social partners and the ability of the government and the assessment, and that is why this is the amount and it should be welcomed. It's not a small amount, it's 13 pay more in 2022 and help employers with compensatory measures It's the mission of the ministry and the government. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67283	Next individual debate, respected representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67284	... The assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed Assistant Minister, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, so as I have pointed out in the morning, I think it's important to repeat. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The Institute of Minimum Salaries is extremely sensitive and therefore should be approached with a very responsible, serious amount of accuracy and precision which this government certainly does. As the prime minister announced yesterday, a decision on the 2022 minimum salary for the government was taken at a meeting of the 2022 government, which will amount to 3.750 kuna, representing a 10% growth of 350 kuna compared to this year. It's certainly the biggest increase at the level of the year ever. In the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, therefore, in the last 5 years, the minimum wage has been increased by 1.254 kuna to a net amount, and this is an increase of 50% more than compared to 2016, which is certainly significant and we have never had such a large increase at year level, nor by overall seeing the overall mandates of different governments. As I have already said in the mandate of the SDP government, the minimum wage has grown by only 179 kuna, we put it in line with the growth in this mandate of 1,250 kuna and we can see very clearly who, what and how much he knows. I'm just going to remind myself of something that is often forgotten, which is that the SDP government for pensioners did the following, it wasn't so long ago, and we're also talking about the time of the global crisis, though the world's economics, so it's comparable. So, for the pensioners, not long ago, the following was done, 4 billion kunas were cut out from the second pillar of the workers' personal accounts and it was transferred to the benefit of the public budget of 2015. What else was made for the workers? The salaries were drastically reduced, although the base was not touched, but the coefficients were reduced, so the salaries fell drastically for both the professors and the doctors and the police, teachers, teachers, etc., no Christmases, regressions, all 4,000 people were given a measure to preserve jobs. So the job-preservation measure is no novelty, but at the time of the global economic crisis it was consumed only 4,000 times during the SDP, which is why it was then dumped on the stock market by nearly 400,000 unemployed. The result of the then government is almost 50% youth unemployment, etc., etc. In the term of this government when we talk about the weather also of the global crisis, the global health crisis despite the pandemic, despite all the difficulties that have hit us, not only have we significantly increased the minimum wage but we have raised pensions by a million and 237 thousand users by 18%, and for those who most need the lowest pension pensions have increased by more than 23%. The average salary rises by 24%, and 10% increase is paid. Covid supplement for people working under covid conditions in hospitals, in social services, etc. The number of employees compared to last year is 52,000, compared to the old normal one by 15,000, and I am not talking about a top-notch measure for the preservation of jobs that was activated by more than 700,000 workers and 120,000 employers, which is why the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic courageously and boldly stood behind all Croatian workers and employers who were in need and thus preserved thousands and thousands of jobs and therefore paid 18.5 billion kuna. None of this came in itself, none of it happened but was the result of good and successful management. Today we have had opportunities to hear a lot of speeches about European minimum wage. I remind you that the share of the minimum wage in the average salary with this increase is 53%, when we put it in line with 27 EU member states, then Croatia is 8th in 2020. And in this year, it's gonna be top five. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67285	Time, we have several replicas, is the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67286	Dear colleagues, therefore, you are neither particularly smart nor capable, so when comparing what the SDP government was doing consider the circumstances in the capital markets. You yourself admitted that it was an economic recession, so I'm not saying that they would have been more successful if it were a better situation, but you wouldn't have been better at it than they were at the time. So everything that was going on wasn't because you were particularly inventive, which you had an initiative but depended on the state of the world market and generally with what was happening in the economy. Also with these you will not help Croatian families live better, inflation and price increases are so much that they will eat what you propose. So you didn't do anything to relieve the entrepreneurs. The first move of the Bridge when we were in the government, we made you cut the tax on the company's name and we showed you how it works. And you don't want to change things. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67287	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67288	Thank you, Mr. Bolt. So, the fact is, and that's something you can't argue with either, nor anyone here that the HDZ government has raised the minimum wage back in the fifth year. The term of office for more than 1,200 kuna and that this increase of 350 kuna is the net maximum at the annual level ever. And since you've already talked about what, what you've planned or what activities you've had, I'm asking you what you are in 2016. when you have had the opportunity to influence the Minimum Payment Act, suggest, etc., what you have specifically done for the Minimum Payment Act, the Minimum Payment Regulation, I will tell you firsthand, nothing, nothing. You had your chance, you did nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67289	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67290	He's been injured. 238, so, fellow Buric, not that we didn't do anything but we did as much as you didn't want to change things, and it was as much a resistance to your changes, and you were leading the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, a huge resistance to change, as you are today showing it. You give people a church girl and you say you helped them, and people run from Croatia. We're going to have a complete demographic breakdown, so a break in the pension system, so... Breaking everything, but you see where you live? [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67291	Time. You abused the Rules of Procedure, you used this for replication, you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67292	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I am glad that you, like your colleague Grumoja, mentioned two recessions that were related to the lack of demand and to the fall of real estate traffic, it was in some way envisaged and could react to it. Despite the fact that it was possible to react, and it is good that all of us together as the public remember that the Republic of Croatia then sank into a recession that was not seen at the end, a minimum of 12 quarters in a row we went to the recession in GDP. On the other hand, we now have a crisis that could not be affected because no one expected it to happen. This crisis is even worse because it had to be socially distanced, which led to the end of spending money whether someone had a job or not. In the previous recession, no one had to practically shut down their sectors, now the entire economic sectors were closing down. And the government still has results. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67293	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67294	Thank you, Comrade Mazhar. So, as you yourself have said, in the last 10 years of the 15th year, two global crises, one economic, one health model, but two different governance models, one failed SDP that led to results that we had nearly 400,000 unemployed, that the salaries were falling, that pensions did not increase, that reduced coefficients, doctors, teachers, teachers, everyone, I don't remember, though someone then complained about the second world health crisis, where the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic showed a strategic way of managing and achieved the results that are still ahead of us today, but I think that what should be particularly commended is a measure to preserve jobs where 700,000 jobs were preserved. and helped 120,000 employers. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67295	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67296	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Sanader, dear colleague Majda Buric. So, I'd rather not look at what was 5, 10, 15, 20, which is this, which is what I'd rather hear from you who are your advice, we know today we're with the secretary of state that with 3,750 kuna someone who works and has children I don't know you have to beg on the road and really be hungry. What's good to increase that, 100 kunas better than you don't have them, but what can the state do for you to finally go into our society production, to make entrepreneurs happy, we know that they didn't exactly look favorably at entrepreneurs here on this story, which you can as a government because you're the government, and we're the opposition, so we can only watch what else we should do, that entrepreneurs will then be the ones who will pay the workers and 10, 12 or 13,000 kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67297	Time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67298	Dear fellow Marine Miletic, I thank you for asking. So, I'm going to start with the AORT Agency, an institution that provides minimum salaries and pays for minimum salaries and other taxes for workers in companies that are in bankruptcy or blockade. The results are that it's been in the last 5 years. 227 million kuna aid paid for 17,400 workers. Since we both come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County where both the Uljannik and 3 are current. May, I have to tell you that, right through that Uljanika agency, 57 million kuna has been paid for as many as 3,500 workers. That's something I haven't been able to say yet, and I'm glad you asked me this. As far as the poverty rate itself is concerned, there's been a lot of incorrect data here today. So the poverty rate in the Republic of Croatia is 18% and it is reduced to 18% with 20% [[Intruder: Time]] in 2017 [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67299	Followed by a replica of distinguished representatives, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67300	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs, you were an official at the Ministry of Labour and certainly gave a very quality review of everything the government mandate of Andrej Plenkovic, now and formerly, has done to improve and, increase and pensions and salaries, as well as everything that has been done for, as measures for the employment of young people and a lot of things. Of course we can always talk that it's never enough if we talk about a minimum wage, her word itself says that this is one amount that needs to be constantly increased and upgraded. However, what is unimaginable to me is that the difficult situation in which the state is located, as well as all the measures the government has made to preserve jobs in the covid crisis, and it is justified that the SDP government's time when wages were frozen, the wages were reduced. Pensions limited [[Intruder: Time]] But no one was complaining at the time. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67301	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67302	Thank you, dear fellow Murganic. I'll be very brief, I'm convinced that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia see very well what efforts the government of the Republic of Croatia and all the resolution ministries are making to successfully sail and get through this health crisis together. I am telling you that I am convinced of what the latest crobarometer rating shows, where HDZ has the support of Croatian voters of almost 31%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67303	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67304	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am even more convinced after a multi-hour debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Salary Act that this amount of HRK 350 or an increase of 3,400 to HRK 3,750 is the most real amount of the increase. Indeed, that amount is 100% higher, if it were an increase of 700 kuna and more workers would not be much and certain of this cost of life so that it would be good if these increases were higher. However, we hear the same and even from the same MPs who say the increase is small, that it is again a great burden for employers. The colleague presented information that employers advocated an increase of only 100 kuna and that this would be the most realistic in view of the situation. Well, that's why I'm thinking that this must be the most real amount right now. As it is said and as we all know, the minimum wage institute is a highly sensitive nature and the most important institute and social and economic policies in the country. What we have on the table in these changes and additions can be divided into a few dots and I think it's very good. It says extending the minimum wage definition and introducing supervision of extended collective agreements, which means so far we have had a minimum salary of 3 thousand and 400 kuna and the employer was not in violation if he pays only that amount. However, if a collective contract, such as we have in construction, provides for some more complex tasks, even a minimum wage of $11,000 and 130, then the employer is obliged to pay that minimum wage. Furthermore, bargaining minimum wages in gross amounts, we know very well that the government with 5 rounds of tax reform has charged the employers, which has charged the citizens 10 billion kuna. Many employers took advantage of all the benefits they needed to benefit workers and because they had a contracted net salary, they were the part that was intended to keep workers to themselves. Furthermore, the ban on paying minimum wages, we know when a worker is hired to sign everything and everything just to get a permanent job and exactly that minimum wage was misused and they gave up that minimum wage. Furthermore, for overtime and night work and for work on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that the worker is not working will have the right to raise wages at least in the height of the collective contract established. There was also a law played out in a way that the employer paid compensation of everything, for example. 0.01% and thus the increase satisfied the legal form and basically the worker got almost nothing. It is now required to use those amounts agreed by an extended collective agreement and this is mostly 30% for overtime and night work, and for work on Sundays 50%. And now let me not list all the things that bring these changes and additions. It should be said that these 51 000 employees will have a 10.3% increase and that for the first time the salary is minimal over 50% of the average net salary, and it was from 5 years ago the minimum salary was only 35% of the average. It should be said that the average salary for the first time in February of this year is also above 7 thousand kuna. Now in August it was 7 thousand and 118 kuna, which at the annual level is nominal growth of 5.9% and in the last 5 years it has increased by thousands and 445 kuna. When it comes to employers, it would once again underline what has been in effect since this year that in the 5th round of tax reform, 93% of companies with an annual income of up to 7 and a half million kuna had their profit tax rate reduced from 12% and the income tax was reduced from 36 to 30 and 24%. And when it comes to pandemics, we need to know that 17 billion kunas with 17 billion kunas stood the government behind workers and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67305	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Begonja. I'm sorry, the first honorary representative is Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67306	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Juričev Martinchev, we have heard today that he bids a lot, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little etc. Of course every single one of us knows, wants to, and wants to be as much as possible. But you should always be realistic, but you should be honest. I personally come from Vukovar, from Vukovar-Srijem County from Slavonia where the net salary for last year was 4000 749 kuna and 79.5% of the net salary of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we in Slavonia know what small wages mean and we know what any increase in minimum wages means. When I see my mom, when I see my parents, I know how much it means to her. It is up to us to keep doing this and to create ever-increasing conditions for a better quality of life. But what we may not have heard is tied up and will be prescribed in gross terms for tax relief.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67307	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67308	Thank you very much. That's right, Comrade Mazhar, to be honest. You should be honest with the workers as well as the employers. It is certain for the worker that an increase of 350 kunas will be welcome, but that he will solve all his life problems and that given the cost of life, he will be sufficient for one normal life especially if we are talking about one member of a three-member family or four-member family, we must all be realistic and certainly not. On the other hand, we have employers who have these 350 kunas with of course everything they need, which goes along with contributions, pension, health, taxes, taxes and other things that go on personal income are additional burdens and there are some activities that will simply be difficult to deal with and with this expenditure. You're coming from across the street from our beautiful place where the situation is different than it is in my neighborhood. Yet all of us who live somehow with tourism and tourism are much better, but here's your experience speaking differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67309	Thank you. Now the honourable representative of Begonja will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67310	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, this Law aims to make minimum wage a social and economic protection instrument for workers. Also, the share of minimum wages in average salary is gradually increasing. The numbers say everything. From 2011 to 2015 we have a net minimum wage increase of cca 8% while, at the same time, from 2016 to today, we have an increase in net salary of cca 50 percent. Please comment on the government's efforts, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic to protect himself in this segment of labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67311	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67312	Thank you very much, colleague Begonja. Here's everything you've said in your replica, and I'd say everything the government does results in the number of employees. In fact, by 51,000 we have more employees than last year and it has now reached a million and 600 thousand employees, the largest number of employees in August since the record year 2008 and the second one is the largest of independence. Of course, the unemployment rate, which was 13.3% five years ago, fell to 7.3% in August. This speaks enough about the government's efforts and results in terms of workers and employment or unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67313	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67314	Here's a little bit. Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, a lot has already been said about this amendment to the law. Of course, I need to replicate you with the aim of in some way commending your debate since you have not only talked about the amount and the increase of this amount, but also about the obligations that employers have in these changes by respecting contracts or collective agreements and all obligations towards workers, and it is important to stress that. Of course, with this minimum wage, the government has protected the minimum that workers need to get and that nobody is saying it's really big or that it's enough. However, the trend is a constant increase and that is excellent. But the government also takes care of the support of employers when they are needed and justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67315	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67316	Thank you very much. My colleague Murganic, so here's a lot more to say on this subject. In fact, all this about employment, unemployment is the result, among other things, of an active employment policy in which 5.5 billion kuna has been invested in 5 years, covering 165 thousand people. As for entrepreneurs and states, we see that in the first 8 months of this year we have increased industrial production by 8.3%. Traffic from the store to a little 13.5%. The construction work volume index is over 11%. Exports of goods 25%, etc. Which says that it is going at an uphill pace, and I believe that it will help employers, and thus also our workers, and that in a very fast period, the government will again make a decision that will result in a new increase in minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67317	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67318	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, of course, that this increase is extremely large given the circumstances and crises in which we live and that surely the Government has shown here how important it is for all our fellow citizens to allow as much normal life and standards as possible. However, it is certain that more should be done for some real, real cost of life, but it should always be taken into account as you yourself said it creates a burden on the entrepreneurial side. What's important is that there's still room for collective bargaining on certain fees, and there's also a government that has seen how important this segment is, and I think it's good, especially because every brand carries its problems and it's not the same everywhere, and so I think it's a good thing that we left that part to simply contract a collective agreement between the union and the employers, so tell me your point of view about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67319	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67320	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac, in these amendments and additions to the accent, is also placed on collective agreements, extended collective agreements and I think that almost everyone will be very happy to sit at the table so that they can have a situation like now the only collective contract is this in construction when the minimum wage that binds the employer to something more complex is more than 11,000 kuna. Also when it comes to paying overtime, work at night, etc. If it is 30 or 50%, it will be an additional motive for all who do not have those collective agreements yet, and they have no one but construction to sit at the table, to agree and then certainly in those branches where the situation is better than I mentioned earlier, we have with the construction of goods exports, industrial production, tourism, retail trade and so on. I'm sure there's room for that minimum wage to be higher than today's 3,000 and 750 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67321	Thank you. The following will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67322	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, a respected state secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I'd kind of like to, I don't know if I might be a political romantic and maybe I don't have to see for myself what, how all this is with me, but I'd like to, for example, that the problems of Croatian citizens are our common problems and that we're all thinking about what we can do to make people better, I'd like it so much. So, normally we're not from the same place right now, you have a family in the same house so they don't agree, I mean we don't have to agree on everything now and I understand that we have to have different attitudes and that each of us presents ourselves to our constituents as one, like those who can make Croatia better. But I'm not usually conflicting as a person, so I find it hard to listen to these, guilty ones, these, guilty ones in 2011, 2001. Racan,... brother dear me in 2021, I haven't watched TV in a couple of years, we're just on YouTube and on the Net, and now we're back in about 20 years. Which is the fact that a lot of people are leaving our country. According to current estimates, almost 250 thousand people are terrified. What's a fact is a little bit of getting ready for the HDZ's will be ready for the Bridges, you know how, so on agriculture. Urban areas are 1,1% of the total area of Croatia, while rural and transitional areas are 98.9% of the territory. Empty everything. 750 thousand abandoned land that's all demographics, that's all life, that's money. We're empty in Croatia, and then people are still leaving. Inflation, prices are growing, life is expensive in our country. We heard, almost 30% of what we earn goes to basic needs so to food 30%. Now a minimum of three thousand 750 kuna, what can I tell you? I'd also sign that nine thousand, ten thousand. But do we know what causes tectonic disorders in society, and then how much difficulty we have in the whole story with entrepreneurs, it breaks the whole system? What's important to say is that millions of people today receive 6 thousand kunas, that 600,000 pensioners are on a minimum and 3 years ago, the State Statistics Office calculated that the poverty risk threshold is 5 thousand kuna 3 years ago and many of our citizens are in great difficulty. We've got 1.3 workers on one pensioner, and that's my problem, too, that's not just your problem because I'm thinking, so we won't be human. So if I live to retire what? Who's going to charge the budget or we're going to get these from everywhere? I mean, life is nice. One planet Earth, so there'll be people there just won't be our Croats. Tax discharge, tax cuts, red tape, shut down that corruption until the end, don't forget to encourage production and then protect our producers and then it'd be a good time. Hope needs these smart tax policies. Plastically speaking, we could better put all and the distribution of wealth at the end of our country through these tax policies. The government must make it easier for entrepreneurs to work, create, produce, and then the workers will have good wages. There's 52,000 workers on the minimal. My reaction today was only in that dimension because I worked at school for 16 years and I know what it means when you work 16 years at school what kind of pay you have and don't give God that you have one loan. God forbid you have two kids who come to you and tell me my dad wouldn't give me some of the thousand kuna shoes, 300, 400 kuna shoes, so you buy one daughter a shoe, another jacket, pay for credit, cell phone, power, phone, and you lose everything, and then you drink Turkish coffee because you don't have an expresso every day. And that's what I'd like us to go down amongst people so I know we don't have a magic wand, I know you can't go pounding now, solve everything, and we'll all become Finland. But Finland used to be at the beginning, and they were all big once were small, and I'd like it to go that way to see what we can do, what taxes we can do, what we can do to make it go, not get our people out of here. We won't have anyone left in our country, but there's a defender here, and here's my Mira. So why did these people fight? We ain't got nobody left, man. So we do what we can to keep our youth from going to our smartest, most creative, most capable outside, not to be opened up by people outside the company. Let's do everything we can to reduce bureaucracy here, so that people can work and live in our Croatia. It's beautiful. Let's keep her safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67323	Thank you. We have three replicas. One is not written down. Dear Representative Bulj answered the same thing. But he's the first respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67324	Thank you. Dear colleague Miletic, that's the real question. So, of course, the increase if we compare how much I don't know has grown minimum wage over time and if we're going to deal with it during SDP by 2015 and if we compare it to this right now, we can say that's progress. But if we see what life costs are today and whether people can live not with that minimum wage, but also with a lot and that much higher that pay is the answer I can't. And if we take into account all these other problems that exist in our society and we don't want to be just negative and talk about these problems of inequality, injustice, access to justice, access to the health system, and then these problems that you're talking about, in the end of the pension system, and whether we're going to have any pension problems at all is the question of how to offer answers to these questions, and this government is not offering them, and I'm convinced therefore and we're getting ready for that time to offer answers to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67325	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67326	So thank you, comrade Grmoy, for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67327	Please don't come from the bench. Let's let my fellow Miletic go. ... Please, can we please let fellow Miletic say so? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67328	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I know that to me that I have on those 14,000 of our additions, the life of two kids here, and I think I have a salary, 17 and 300, 400 I know when I give 1/10 when I pay 2 credits, when you pay people, so that's how we live, that's how we live a colleague when we pay our bills, so you're already in a jam, and I know because I've been living in a school for 16 years, I've had the teacher's salary that I've been struggling with, and I know I didn't have rich parents, but I've had to wait, I've worked on a carriage to buy something. There's nothing wrong with wealth, but I had to deal with it myself, and that's what our people are going through on a daily basis. When we forget it, we're already going down. Those who forget it have already begun to fall perhaps because they are arrogant, not seeing, but are beginning to fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67329	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67330	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MP Miletic, I like to listen to your debates, they are full of emotion, they come from the heart, you present it as well. But I'd like your heart to be a little more righteous sometimes. Look at us here, what do you think we're doing? We're also moving with people and we know very well how much shoes cost and how much coffee they cost. What would be good is that first when we talk about abandoned villages long ago the migration of the village-city began, long ago, long before HDZ even existed and all of our parties here. Secondly, let's be a little fair and say how much, and you mentioned tax reform, how successful tax reforms were by 2019. In the first year alone, 7 billion went to tax exemptions for citizens, according to units of local and economy. But then came the earthquake, so came the covid. How much it seemed to preserve jobs, to keep the businessmen on the labour market. Let's be a little bit more righteous some times.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67331	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67332	God is the only righteous colleague Murganic, who is perfect in everything, and we such people as we are, we try as hard as we can in our faults and limitations. I don't think I've ever generalized when I look at my colleagues on the left, ever. So, I take care of it. If I was wrong, I apologize right now, but I really think you can always do better and that you can always, because you have that power. So I don't have it right now and I'd be clean at the rhetorical level or I don't know any strange analogies that I'd be pulling what I would do if I were you right now or the secretary of state, it's ultimately a little pathetic. It's where we are now watching what we can do, and the truth is that Croatia has hit a major crisis, big earthquakes. So, earthquakes in both material and in this respect, and here we are talking as best we can do all that together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67333	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67334	Thank you very much. A fellow minimum wage that 7,000 kuna wouldn't be enough. Any increase should be supported, however, in order for a man to earn a salary then here's a colleague mentioned a covid measure I in my town had an injustice against the city of Sinj when they were covid measures. In Sinj it was forbidden to operate in catering facilities and other service activities during the Alka, the Great Lady. So our young people went to Livno and spent money there, while in other parts it could have worked. So we're going to be the same to all entrepreneurs, either dissuaded, or one who has to have protected health care. That's what we have to strive for. The government has also re-politicalized the measures so that the caterers, the merchants, all those who are... for unfair measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67335	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67336	Yeah, what I see running every organization is hard, and the state is hard to run. But what the people see, we also see that double criteria always hurt. It always hurts when someone's allowed, others don't. It always hurts when some can sit on circles, eat, drink, hang out and people can't tell if it's thank God we didn't go that way, but the people would be punished. It always hurts when five people come to someone's funeral and one's 1,000 people. And it hurts. Those double criteria. And that's what drives the people crazy, so that's what's causing people to get upset and watch what's going on. So we want to build Croatia and we will die for it to be equal for every man. Some will say it's a utopia from Thomas More. Okay. But we're gonna die, we're gonna die, and we're gonna disappear if we have to be political, but we're not gonna give up on those ideals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67337	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative of Rade Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67338	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Payment Act. I actually realized that we're going to talk more about the law that's inside, because it's actually the intention of this law to protect that minimum wage. However, there is no minimum wage letter in that law. So, I'm probably going to succumb to the atmosphere too, so I'm going to talk about numbers, and what's really important is what's in that law and it says that the minimum wage in terms of this law is the minimum monthly salary paid to the worker in full time. The minimum wage shall be agreed, established or prescribed in gross amount. An employee and employer shall not be allowed to enter into an agreement on the waiver of the right to pay a minimum wage for overtime, for night work, for work on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law provides that the worker is not entitled to raise wages at least in the height of the collective contract that has been extended in accordance with the general labour rules. The supervision of the application of this law shall be carried out by a competent inspector who, according to specific rules, is authorised to supervise work and employment. The fine of 60 to 100 000 kuna will be fined by an employer, a legal person who does not pay minimum wage within the time limit laid down in the provisions of this law. This legal framework is necessary in order to implement the contractual obligations on the amount of the minimum wage and the deadlines for its establishment. This is actually important when it comes to the minimum wage law. The amount of minimum wage is something else, but it is important, very important or as important as these legal frameworks. All governments so far have been concerned with the amount of minimum guaranteed wages, but all governments have not been equally successful in the fight for minimum wage for workers. It certainly needs to be done everything that minimum wage and not only minimum wage is higher and this government has shown that it is making a shift in every sense. It's hard to be happy especially for my parliamentary representatives when there are people living on the poverty line. But any increase in minimum wages is better than a reduction in wages as some governments whose representatives were then, and the Bots are sitting in these benches now. In the difficult times of the High Priest Covid, the rise in the minimum wage of this government is 13.64 and 425 kuna in gross and 340 kuna, respectively, in net. Since 2011, I apologize if I'm wrong until 2013 the minimum wage has grown 0.00 kuna, and there was no crown, there was no earthquake. From 2016 to 2020, the annual minimum wage increased by a thousand 254 kuna, including what the prime minister announced the other day. These are figures that say what the situation is and that's the result of this government's work. No such increase has ever been reported before. This is not enough, but it is certainly better than those who have increased the minimum wage for 0,00 kuna, and others have reduced the wages I personally felt on my incomes. We need to know what time we live in, and we all make our contribution. We've had enough criticism. Let's be optimistic because this government is doing good things and giving hope for a better tomorrow despite everything. Let us be her support for constructive criticism and creative suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67339	We have replicas. Dear Representative Jelkovac first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67340	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you have correctly established this Law actually regulates minimum wage as a socio-economic mechanism that works in society in a way that guarantees the worker that he will be paid that guaranteed minimum amount in his full-time work. However, we all certainly as a society will be the happiest when market factors function so that the employer will be able to pay the worker as much as possible and thus keep a quality worker. This is most certainly in the interest of every employer that there is a good worker and worker who will remain working for him. And they will certainly want to keep him and pay him an adequate salary for it. And that's why I think in this case we've made for this time in which we live some of the best possible solution that is balanced given the current position and entrepreneurs, and those workers who work with employers who can't pay more than minimum wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67341	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67342	Thank you, colleagues. That you've been great at detecting it. You actually gave an answer through what you had to say. Yes, it would be best if there were no minimum wage, if wages were negotiated by collective agreement and we had such companies, such companies where people would come happy and happy and even happier to leave, means that their incomes would be enough to live without being in a situation where society or community through social giving helps them to live, so that they could live decently on a man of today's day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67343	The Honorable representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67344	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Simičević today is on the agenda of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Minimum Payment Act, although in fact all of them are more or less referred to the Government's Regulation on the height of minimum wage. Well, that's exactly what I want to refer to myself in that direction. It is indisputable that both the Government and this Regulation and the Proposal for this law do much to preserve jobs and preserve labour rights. I'm interested in these Covid times to comment on what the government actually did to preserve jobs, and we know that many jobs should have been shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67345	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67346	I thank my colleague. Yes, at the time of the monster corona virus that has actually been unmarked since the Spanish flu, the government has done everything to preserve 18.5 billion kuna jobs has been invested in several hundred thousand jobs. You should've found that money. It was meant to give it to people, and it is also a fact that everyone who has achieved this right to be right and to get it. So there wasn't anything said here, and then it gave up. Here was all that was agreed and actually this pandemic is incomparable to any other crisis that a colleague had said earlier, there was no physical contact here, we couldn't spend our money but unfortunately we couldn't even earn it, and in other situations we got... your money. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67347	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67348	A respected colleague here is representing this Law secretary said that the minimum wage is one type of insurance or one measure that ensures that young people are involved in the labour market. However, the fact is and this will likely show the results of this census that young people are going to other people's labour markets in Ireland, Germany and already Western Europe. Do you think that young people are leaving because the minimum wage is low or because of some other unfavourable conditions in our economy? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67349	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67350	Thank you, colleagues. Well, it's probably gonna show why all the young people are leaving. So I think that we are globally as we like to say the global village and that the world is open, people are leaving Croatia, they're going to Ireland, they're going to Canada, they're going to Australia, and they're the trends of this time, and they certainly wouldn't be able to stop me from paying three times as much. But we as a state, and I think this government is on this path we create a prerequisite that everyone really is proud of what he does and that he can live from his work. I believe that by the end of this term, this government will make an even more significant step and will give young people a chance in particular. The state without people is in fact only territory and our goal is that Mr Miletic told Croatia to be guided by Croatians and to be happy in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67351	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev. Cola Šimičević, a respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev, has something to say to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67352	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Simičević to control the payout. It is precisely these amendments and additions of laws that lead to the strengthening of the cooperation of inspection bodies. The inspections responsible for the work control the legality and provisions of an extended collective contract. Tax administration controls the correctness of the reckoning. So far it's been if one of them determines irregularities then just comes into the office, informs the other, she goes out on the ground and, of course, in that time, the employer can change something and make something right. Now they come at the same time. In addition, we have an extension of criminal liability for the employer if he continues to negotiate a minimum wage in the net amount, if he asks for the signing of a right to pay a minimum wage and does not pay a minimum wage increase to the worker according to the prescribed basics to be obtained by the worker in accordance with an extended collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67353	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67354	Thank you, colleagues. Yes, I believe that this law will be a good instrument so as not to be an empty walk anymore and that, as the wolf says, it does not bite at the note, so that inspection services will now leave on the spot to determine the perpetrator, punish him, and that these people who really find it difficult, who live with a minimum wage, that they will not come into a situation that both what they have received and what they are guaranteed by the law that someone cuts them off. Unfortunately, we have employers who are wonderful, beautiful, who should simply be painted in all companies unlike those who actually pay minimum wages, and at the end of the year make profits. This should be prevented and all efforts should be made to ensure that no worker in any situation is discontinued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67355	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67356	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here we are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Payment Act. And as many colleagues have mentioned, we are actually putting into the employer's relationship the price to be paid by the employer and also by the worker who earns that salary and who needs to earn more income. First and foremost, it should be noted that what we did in the previous period, which is to negotiate gross wages is the most significant step. In fact, all of what we did in the tax system and exemptions, the increase in personal deduction didn't have that much effect just because the gross value of the job was not agreed on. Because that's when the employer could actually set up a gross amount just as much as he wanted it to be spent. This way, when it's arranged as gross, then the tax relief of 4,000 kunas has a much greater effect and God forbid it gets bigger, then everyone will have a better and greater effect than it's ever been before. We say that especially the opposition says why it is increasing. On the other hand, he wants a much bigger salary. I would say and ask if we have any activities in Croatia the price of an hour of work of any profession. We don't. So now we're only talking about it at the level of student work and student fees he has during his work as a student. Therefore, this is the starting base that we can talk about, unlike the Western countries that have contracted exactly the price of a particular profession's hour. So when we look at this period how much this minimum wage has increased and when it is now at a level of 500 euros net salary and when we compare with other countries then we have to say that this is 500 euros net salary and some 567, 70 euros gross salary. When you look at comparisons from other countries, we must also say that, for example, gross salary in Ireland is 724 euros, in Slovenia is a thousand and 100, and the net is 736. So we have to be very precise about numbers and say what's gross and what's net. Because the one who works in Ireland for a thousand and 700 gross is not some kind of wealth he gets at that point, and I don't know which basket is much bigger for him if his rent is at least a thousand euros. Hence, we must always compare ourselves with those close to us. It is significant that at this point he is concerned about the sustainability of the employers themselves and does not want to undermine the very economic relationship and to lead to the situation of layoffs by workers. Because it's the key to development as well. So, at this point, the government is doing the optimum that allows, although insufficient minimum wage and no one is saying that it is sufficient and consummated, but at this point in time and this situation in relation to all previous years, I think that in this period this government has achieved a lot more steps than it has happened in some previous period. Therefore, it is up to us to create a prerequisite that precisely our entrepreneurs and our employees, workers have the best conditions, the more work and the better pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67357	The Republic has a respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67358	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Peric here at the beginning of the exhibition you mentioned that the main actors in the labour market are employers and workers who, both in their respective laws, define their relationship according to some of the laws of supply and demand, and the state is there to make it impossible for the legal regulation to exploit any of the two sides. Because according to the State Inspectorate, there is a significant number of infringements initiated. So last year, they were treated by employers for failure to pay even minimum wages were one thousand 689. So it's good that this bill emphasized the co-operation of the tax administration and the inspections responsible for work especially in the sense that they would jointly determine supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67359	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67360	Thank you very much. Yes, that coordination is very important. What I would further point out is what we will also have to take into account, many employers are not willing to pay in the regular period of wages to their employees, but there is a liquidity problem and the collection of their claims. That's what we all need to think very much about, because when we introduce order here, then I think this continuity and order of wages will be far better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67361	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67362	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues of the state are obliged and obliged to give every worker a decent salary for his work that can feed himself and his family. Right? However, these changes are only cosmetic changes and thus do not foresee this because these cosmetic changes are such that the minimum wage is defined in relation to the amount needed to meet the needs of workers and their families. The minimum wage should be defined at the real cost of life. Because in my Slavonia, for example, a four-member family can't actually survive on a minimal, and we all know that the largest percentage of workers in the minimal is right from Slavonia, and most regrettable it is the poorest region in Croatia. Please explain that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67363	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67364	Thank you very much. So if you look at the 2016 analysis here, then you see that in 2016 the net minimum salary was 2 thousand 496 kuna and it accounted for 38% in gross average salary. Now it would be far more than in 2021, it was 3,400, now 3,750, and it was 46.29%, and now it's over 50%. Thus, no one claims that anyone and anywhere can achieve all their needs with a minimum wage. But it's the minimum guarantee to every employee that won't be paid extra. This is what we need to think very much about precisely because we did not have the cost of working for a particular activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67365	Thank you. Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67366	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, therefore, this law cannot be classified under cosmetic law, given what the government has done not only for minimum wage but also for the average income of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Given that you are at the head of the Assembly Committee on Budgets and Finance, the best indicator is whether the state is going in a good direction to fill the budget from income, from income. So we have an announcement and a rebalancing increase in these funds and if therefore the budget is being filled either locally, whether the state of income tax if that tax is growing year by year then the incomes of our fellow citizens not only so those who are on the minimum, but those with an average salary. Do you have any information on where we are in 2021?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67367	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67368	Thank you very much. Yes, that is precisely the indicator that can very well reflect the state of society, but also in the units of local self-government that have that income at their disposal. Namely, if there was no regular and timely control and income collection then the whole system would collapse. So it's all done in that sense. I'm talking about this right now that entrepreneurs have to be able to collect, I can collect their claims and I can pay off within the regular time period just for the salary of their employees, because that way, you in the local self-government have a stable budget and the fact is that income from income tax has been constantly growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67369	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67370	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's exactly the pleasure of talking today about the Minimum Payment Act on the day the government adopted a regulation that raised the minimum wage by 10%, i.e. 350 kuna, and is now net of 3750 kuna. I think the secretary of state said that only in the last year, five, six EU countries have raised the minimum wage by more than 5%, and the policy of Andrej Plenkovic has always been to keep us as Christian solidarity as far as possible against all layers of society, but also to preserve and improve the business climate and preserve jobs. And exactly the way it was approached by amending the law in 2018 when we included different visions and work on Sundays and overtime not to include it in the minimum wage. And also by raising the amount, by continuing to raise the minimum wage amount and also by compensating measures for entrepreneurs, we made a balance because we kept those jobs on the one hand. When we talk about dignity, of course, that no one here claims to be decently able to live with 3750 kunas, but if this suddenly increased these jobs would be lost. And the government was just looking to balance and congratulate the secretary of state, congratulations and Minister Aladrović that we have reached 50% of the average, or 60% of the minimum wage, 60% of the media salary today. By doing so, we raised the minimum wage in five years for the 1254 kuna which is, and the government has passed the entire term of 170. The emphasis of this law will certainly be on negotiating gross amounts. Therefore, any tax relief that will continue to be citizens with minimum wage will benefit. I already said we're 2018. Put that Sunday and overtime do not include in the minimum wage account, and now all the additions listed in the Labour Act will be taken from the calculation itself. And what is important is the emphasis on collective negotiations where exactly, and I am proud that we have so far had two extended collective agreements, for tourism and for the building where tourism has been suspended but that they have extended collective rights and that the minimum wage that is within them is defined, and we know that the construction sector in some segments goes up to 11,000 kunas. I'm sorry there's no colleagues, Bernardic. We see it's hard to sit the whole session. There's no Mr. Peja Grbin, we see many of them, we know it's very difficult for them, but we do teamwork. When Mr Bernardic said that I had been removed, I had not been removed, I had completed all the mandates until the end and I came as an reinforcement to the Parliament to strengthen our work here. I think Minister Aladrovic did a great thing and congratulations especially on the covid support. What Mrs. Bencic said was just passing money, transferring to entrepreneurs, it's not true. We've had a billion and a half kuna measures a year, now we've given 12 billion for the last year, a year and a half. I also don't think it was right for my colleague, See, when he was asked what he had given to the young. Well, I think Mr. See was more helpful to young people as secretary of state and as president of youth than Mr. Bernardic in the entire term. Well, for starters, the SDP introduced... That young people work for minimum wage, you've abolished it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Youth Programme "Select a Better Future" of HDZ has brought many opportunities for young people to start getting up to 130 000 kuna for self-employment. The Croatian Employment Service and Mr. Loncar were very much in this crisis and this covid support managed to ensure that we save 700,000 jobs. And what's important is not only that young people don't work for minimum wage but because of this raise, and the student captain has doubled in office. That's the total effect. Can you do better? Of course he can always do better. But I think we've already shown that we know and can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67371	We've got more replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67372	So, uh... We live in the best of all worlds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, that's what you think. I have one specific question. So I'm wondering if you could explain to us why it's not foreseen in these amendments to the law that the internship, so past work also doesn't count on minimum wage. We all know very well how much an internship can raise, and I think it's important for older workers, precisely those whose life is harder, of course that supplement, that calculation would mean a lot. Well, here's what I'm curious about since we've all responded to it in our first reading and asked for it to be introduced into the law, and you can give me an explanation for why it hasn't been introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67373	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67374	Thank you very much. Well, by amending the 2018 law, we were headed in that direction, and I was in shock that Sunday and overtime were not. Now all the components listed in the Labour Act here are included. Further components were left at collective negotiations. So we want to strengthen the social partners that they are, Mr. Novosel I think he announced four new extended collective agreements that the government is very supportive of. So all of those work components that are listed in the Labour Act don't get into the Captain himself. We leave everything else at collective negotiations. As I said in the construction sector, the minimum wage for some sectors is 11,000 kuna. We would like to see more of these sectors, and today the biggest problem of the labour market is the lack of skilled labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67375	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67376	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Pavic, therefore, has significantly improved the legislative framework of minimum wages, especially since 2018. First of all, I'm talking about excluding paying for work on Sundays, holidays, night jobs, difficult working conditions, etc. which you, like the Minister of Work at the time, have been working very hard on. What does that ultimately mean for a worker? So it's going to get paid on top of the minimum wage that's been constantly increasing, which means that the increase from back 5 years out of a thousand 254 kuna that's actually increased even more since everything that's been implemented in the minimum wage has been excluded, horizontally aligned with the Labour Act and is now being paid on top, so I'm actually looking for your commentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67377	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67378	Thank you very much. Well, you noticed, in 2016, when we took over Mr. Plenkovic's first government, the minimum wage was 2 thousand 496 kuna net. It accounted for 38% of the average salary. Now we're at 50%. But what shocked me back then was that working on Sundays, overtime, the holidays weren't that. They could've shut down. In other words, you could give a worker minimum wage less than minimum and then tell him ha, work on Sundays you just to the minimum. We've already begun to get rid of the law in 2018. Now it is completely cleared, and new announcements of the Labour Act, and I believe that colleague Opalić, who is also a top expert and team working there, will also see that with this Law on Minimum Labour, labour legislation also strengthens collective bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67379	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67380	Thank you. When you were talking about giving, giving 130 grand to hire young people, or self-employment, and so far, there have been incentives for self-employment, I have to tell you that this is exactly one example of a lack of agreement between policies horizontally on which your government is falling. You've given a lot of incentives for self-employment. A large number of them just got a job, let's say, in IT business, and now you're sending them tax administration because of course it's undercover employment. So now you're going to give the crowd of those to whom you've given the incentive and shut down. And why is that? Because you haven't levelled their tax obligations between unsuspecting and self-employed work. Because if you did, you wouldn't have that problem, so you wouldn't care because it works for one or 10 employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67381	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67382	My colleagues Bencic when we came to power in 2016 70% of the employment measures went to... where young people worked for minimum wage. 80% in the state public sector would give them that salary for a year and bring them back to the labour market. I'm glad, I'm proud that we've just applied that we've given young people a chance to start their own companies and that the number of young people who start their own companies has tripled. The level of support they receive is higher than in the UK. Of course, the issue of fake self-employment in the IT sector is now a broader issue of the European Union. Different countries have responded differently. Whether it will go into regulation and how it is the same issue of conversation. The opportunities young people, and especially in the IT sector, have here I look at the mayor of Nova Piletić and what he's developing are really big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67383	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67384	Thank you very much. I do not know if it has been mentioned that due to the exemption of salary increases from the difficult working conditions of minimum wage, it has actually been achieved that a much higher standard of workers will be achieved, as this will result in an adequate remuneration for much higher work. And tax reliefs have further enabled certain fees to be paid for the difficult working conditions. Therefore, the employer has the opportunity to make up for and make up for it with an additional prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67385	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67386	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, because first we started with Sundays, holidays, overtimes and all. Now with difficult working conditions. When the tax reform is added to this, of course, the wages are growing, and it is clearly defined in this Law that the minimum wage must be negotiated in gross, which means that all tax charges that will be incurred and from future tax reforms will go in favour of workers that this tax charge will not be taken by the employer. We would prefer the minimum wage in Croatia to be 10 000 kuna, but it should come to that. And it is now necessary to empower employers with measures that we are like the Government, which the government has given 12 billion kunas, 700,000 jobs have been preserved. This is a big step forward for workers in this, and I think it will be a big step in the ministry's preparation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67387	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67388	Dear colleague, here I will remind you again of the recommendations of the Munich Institute, the info institute which is, therefore, before the 2015 elections. Or sixteen actually recommended HDZ to abolish at all, therefore, minimum wage as such, to join that group of European countries that do not have legally regulated nor government regulations with minimum wage because it leads to a grey economy and that actually workers then work more and more black. So why didn't the government accept that recommendation then, you were at that time 9 to me as Secretary of State. So, what did you answer to the institute why won't you accept that recommendation? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67389	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67390	Thank you, dear colleague Puljak. Well, I'm glad you're following not only the HDZ and Government programmes, but also the bases for those. That was a recommendation. Some of those recommendations were followed, some of them weren't. But what Prime Minister Plenkovic's government was primarily led to follow the Christian principle of solidarity and that we want to do maximum on one side of the market development, I also mentioned Mr. Pilletic, IT industry in Novska. And on the other hand, get us out of here as much as possible to meet the minimum wage workers. Now that the biggest problem is the lack of labour, I am pleased, and no one has mentioned the system of vouchers that the Secretary of State sees preparing 300 million kunas from the IPO, where workers will be able to get overqualified and will be able to further perfecte to be more employable and that they can secure a higher salary than minimum on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67391	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67392	Dear colleague, I think you're the best to know and you know how it was before and how it is now, what are the advantages. That's what I think not all employers are the ones who didn't want to pay or don't want to pay their wages. Some have had their difficulties both in business and in everything. But I think it is, however, that these collective agreements are the biggest guarantee to make it worth the while, and that the minimum wage is safe and higher. We should work on that collective as soon as possible. It's a pity we only have one now. The announcements are four more, but I believe that collective agreements are the ones that contribute to the real security of payouts of real wages, i.e. minimum wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67393	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67394	Thank you very much. Well, I think you're absolutely right. And I think the government sat down with both employers and trade unions and representatives of the industry. I know that when an analysis is done every year for the level of minimum wage being determined to be seen, each industry has sat down with both employers and individual directors of endangered companies. That is why compensation measures have been created up to 200,000 euros in three years. Support is given to both digitising and transforming their business, but it is also given to support both trade unions and employers to sit down and agree themselves on an extended collective agreement. There were two so far, buildings and tourism. Tourism has been suspended for the sake of covid, but a cheerful building and a joyful announcement of as many as four new contracts that are possible, announced by the union. And happy also so that both sides have the will to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67395	Thank you. Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67396	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Every time the government raises minimum wage, or when it talks about minimum wage, criticism comes from the opposition that why we even need that minimum wage institute or why we don't raise it to 5 or 7,000 kuna. The fact is that obviously we still have branches of businesses in the economy that can't function on the amount of salary of 5 or 7,000 kuna than on less. The fact is, we also have workers who are willing to work for less than that. What's positive and good is that just looking at how many workers have received this minimum wage for some time if I understand it well in 2018 about 70,000 people, and now at this point about 50,000 people. Therefore, employers, and the government, too, create conditions for the economy to function better, and these employers, when they can use it, do not use the minimum wage instrument, but pay higher wages. That's positive. On the other hand, it is positive that the government has increased the minimum wage in agreement with entrepreneurs and trade unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67397	Thank you very much for your comment. You're right. On the one hand, I don't know an entrepreneur who wants his employee to be dissatisfied. Therefore, they all want to pay as much as they pay, but in order for these salaries to grow primarily because of the lack of labour for the last year, productivity needs to be increased. And there are exactly these investment issues in these production schemes, especially in the wood, leather, metal, textile industries. And on the other hand, workers, of course, want as much pay as possible and want maximum protection from unions and states. And somewhere in the country is looking for that balance. And again, I repeat, these 300 million kuna vouchers that will be an opportunity for these workers to get up to 10,000 kuna education, to raise their competences and be more employable and to do jobs of greater added value for which no minimum wage can be asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67398	Martina Vlasic Iljkic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67399	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Although one of the intensities of improving labour legislation is through the implementation of reforms identified by the NGOs in 2021 to 2026. the reduction of poverty among employees, so-called ... The fact is that the objective will not be achieved since the poverty line is 2,927 kuna, slightly lower than today’s minimum wage of 3,400 kuna and 3,750 kuna respectively, is net as from January 2022. Unfortunately, I have to link the minimum wage to the social aid or guaranteed minimum compensation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the new draft Social Care Act, a minimum fee will now be guaranteed at 2,800 kuna if the base is 1,000 kuna. So the new minimum wage will amount to only 1,000 kunas more than the guaranteed minimum fee for example the four-member household. So poverty is highly linked to minimum wage. Since we are in the wave of basic cost of living, food, energy, the work of workers with minimum wage is even more depreciated, and their existence, physical and mental health is absolutely at risk, and we expect the government to take responsibility and offer concrete measures. Workers, mahogany women, and other vulnerable groups, for example persons with disabilities do jobs for which they receive minimum wage and are at least protected, and we cannot even talk about the psychophysical health of our citizens and the dignity of our lives. I'm sorry, you're bothering me. It is the government that needs to worry about the psychophysical health of its citizens, and the mother or father who are exhausted from hard work on their jobs where employers often take advantage of them to the limits of their opportunities cannot devote themselves to their family life after their shift. That's why the question of the dignity of high-level workers is a demographic and family problem. Children who are growing up in an indifference, who have been aware of the lack of money in the family since childhood, have no equal opportunities compared to those of their peers who do not have these problems. According to data, 52,000 people are currently receiving minimum wage compared to earlier data from 3 years ago. when 73,000 people received minimum wage. The government sees this as a success, but it should be noted that apart from this difference of 21,000 people, even more are those whose salary is minimally higher for only a few kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67400	Guys, please don't bother your colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67401	For example. as in the Borovo factory owned by a state whose salary is higher than the minimum for only 8 to 26 kuna. The difference between a person with a minimum salary and one with a slightly larger than 100 or 200 kunas should not be spoken of because it is minimal in view of the settlement of basic life costs. It should also be mentioned the recent situations allowed by the government as part of the Orljav factory owned by the state where workers secured the salary or payment of the workers in Mark’s square for 3 months that the state owed them. So we welcome the instruments proposed in this legislative proposal concerning the additional regulation of the non-payment of minimum wage provisions by employers, as well as the better integration of bodies that supervise the application of this law. A state that should be an example of respect for the law itself has been found as an example in the event of non-payment of wages to its workers. How, then, it is expected that compliance with the legal rules by entrepreneurs when the state has in so many cases found itself in the role of a bad master who does not pay his workers a minimum wage or manages his resources and destroys the remaining production throughout Croatia, especially in Slavonia. According to national inspectorate data in inspection controls in 2020. It was found that employers had not paid a minimum wage for 1,689 workers, and submitted the indictments on suspicion of the initiation of 318 violations under the Minimum Salary Act. According to the MIP in 2020, 220 crimes have been paid, and these data speak of a large number of violations of human rights, and if we are talking about human dignity, the government needs to offer much more concrete measures for the better future of our citizens because this is certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67402	We have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67403	Dear colleagues, you have also touched on the issues of demographic measures because what we are talking about today is really connected to a whole set of measures that should allow for a better standard of living for our citizens. However, here we are in one paradoxical situation, on the one hand we hear about this increase in minimum wages which, of course, will not go out of the government's pocket but out of the business's pocket, and on the other hand, we have one persistent promise that each time in practice reterves, which is about the most important demographic scale, which is that women can have the right to full pay a full maternity leave. So, in that sense, she would ask you to comment on these latest announcements where this retiring has been seen again that she will not be entitled to a full salary of a woman but will go up to 7,500 kuna, which re-detimizes those women who have high wages and prevents them from mothering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67404	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67405	I appreciate the question. So certainly the question of compensation and pay is indeed a demographic problem and a family problem because it affects the entire community and enables families to plan their costs, plan children's education, available services, everything that they have in the community, and what their parents really want to provide to their children. And the demographic fees that have been promised and which are ultimately, of which part is given up, certainly seems demotive because surely the mother who wants to stay with her child up to the age of one year wants to have the fee promised to her throughout the year, and everything else is really demotive and actually makes it impossible for the family to plan its own expenses and actually brings back to uncertainty the family and their members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67406	Thank you, and now he will speak to the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67407	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, here are a few indications about this law that I think would be good to have in mind, especially with regard to the debate we had today. It's just that we're kind of outwitting ourselves all day today about who did what. On this side of the government we hear about spectacular results, and on the other hand I'd say that there's always some sort of thing that would say the same thing is normal for the opposition, the need to say that there's no movement whatsoever. I do not assess this bill in such a black-and-white way, and I think that it is a constant progress in relation to what we had, although it remains regrettable why we did not listen to what the trade unions have suggested and what is in spirit and in line with the intensity you yourself wrote in the bill's proposal to better actually make this intensity, this intention of the law is achieved, and it is about, for example, when it comes to prescribing gross wages so that all of this cannot be included in this gross salary, so both past work and shift work and all of those other forms and those fees that come in, and which often actually serve as a frontline to pay which is less than minimum. My colleague used to talk to me about it, so I'm not going to explain it any further. Also some principled questions. It is unacceptable that the employer can unilaterally amend the labour contract, it is a two-sided legal act. And that simply simply, it just needs to be shaped in a way that doesn't make it suspicious in any way. What seems very important to me is to keep in mind next. First of all, for a little while, I've replicated here that this year's minimum wager in Croatia is about 47% higher than that 10 years ago. However, this seems very much, it was said of the absolute amounts that these figures were. However, from 2011 to today, Romania has raised minimum wages by 191%, not 47%, Lithuania 170%, Bulgaria 172%, Slovakia 96%, the Czech Republic 81%, Poland etc., so that it is true that Slovenia and Croatia that had the highest minimum salaries 10 years ago of all transition countries, now that Croatia is in one of the last places. And she's got this category of media salary binding 60% media. If this were indeed a criterion, and this is one of the proposals that goes, then Bulgaria would stand best because they have, they have the highest percentage of the Bulgarian minimum makes 59% of the Bulgarian media salary, and the German say 52% of what would be said then that there are Bulgarians standing there better than you, but the Germans, which suggests that in fact I do not further elaborate on the problem that a key problem is not the height of minimum wage is only in those countries where these salaries are decent and worthy of people's lives. So we should focus all our strength and all our efforts on how to find a way to produce, create and produce more productive, to tax less. We have a high burden of tax work and that we create conditions for the average salary that is 30% lower than the minimum wage in Germany to live with dignity. I think the problem is actually hidden in the lack of vision and lack of courage to take reforms that are so necessary and necessary in this country, and for that I would say a serious social consensus. We have debated several important documents in this assembly over the past year or even in this term, and we have not actually used this important, important lever, this important mechanism that without these ideological or party petty bickering we are actually agreeing on what kind of Croatia we want and how to reach such Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67408	Thank you. We have a replica of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67409	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, I think you've touched the weight of the topic, what I'm going to say about in my individual debate, which is that we have minimum wage, but we also have a series of employers who find a number of ways, threads and goals to figure out how not to pay it. And then what's the point of minimum pay? Because the minimum wage at the end of the day can't guarantee a decent life. And especially a decent working life can't be ensured if the employer doesn't even pay it off. So my question is actually rhetorical to you, but even to this entire home is what's the point of minimum pay if there are exceptions where it can't or shouldn't be paid?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67410	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67411	Yes, the point is, in fact, to establish some kind of complete control mechanism and to prevent any abuse of really this social protection primarily by the institute that allows me to say elementary or minimal social security for people who are not marginalists, these are people who are employed, who are working, who receive full pay, etc., in full time employment that this is not played out. We have numerous examples of acting not only on this example. In labour legislation, there are solutions that can pass that are largely in line with some European norms, etc., but in order to avoid respecting these laws there is amazing creativity when it comes to one part that we do not stegmatize all entrepreneurs, people who in fact on black I would say try to play what it represents. But it's not just work, it's We have a problem respecting the law and... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67412	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67413	Dear colleague. Now you have talked about broader measures that would allow the dignity of our workers and even the inhabitants of Croatia, and not just the minimum wage as one single element that in itself doesn't have to mean anything. However, on the basis of what your colleague Hajdukovic asked you and in general one prejudice, I am interested in your opinion on the following, so this minimum wage is simplified to go out of the business pocket and now we are creating this picture of an evil entrepreneur who does not want to give money to his worker as if it were in his interest to rob him, while I personally think that the problem is different until we create a quality economic policy and climate in which the entrepreneur can live from his work as that pro-pulsive part of Croatia does not make any sense to give these measures as minimum wages that do not go out of the government's pocket but out of the business pocket because they will ultimately ask for even more of these mechanisms that fellow Hajdukovic was talking about because he will be forced on them. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67414	Thank you. Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67415	So I think wages are a very complex variable and then everyone here by heart is talking about how the government really needs to determine that there's going to be a thousand euros, 10 thousand euros or I don't know how much they're really saying, and they don't know what they're saying. Pay is not just a matter of will and choice of entrepreneurs, you need to have money to share. I've had opportunities to do another job to visit a whole series of entrepreneurs in leather, footwear, etc. industries where it's really hard. He says if a worker doesn't make me 5,000 kunas, I can't give him 5,000 kunas to pay for it. So these are objective problems that are actually beyond the context of what we're discussing here, what kind of entrepreneurship climate is, what kind of infrastructure is entrepreneurship that they can really create value and have the productivity of those countries that we'd like to compare with. But these are the complex questions that a serious state should be serious about. I'm saying out of these ideological... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67416	Now will be spoken by a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67417	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me put a few thoughts out at the end of the long day when we're discussing minimum wages. In fact, we are talking about Croatia where 25% of the population lives in danger of poverty and social exclusion and where more than 55,000 workers receive minimum wage or have minimum income. What are Croatia's problems when we talk about work in general? It is primarily expensive work, and it is then the fact that the minimum wage we set under A cannot guarantee an unworthy life but a dignified survival and B that employers are imagining how to avoid paying minimum wages. Now, what's the reason? The new minimum wage proposal, of course, is more than welcome, but workers are dissatisfied because of that they will still not live with dignity, employers are dissatisfied because they think it is too much, they are ultimately dissatisfied. But what's the problem? I see it multilayer, with 3,750 kuna you can't live with the same quality in all parts of Croatia, you can't live equally quality in Slavonia, let's say in one village around Ilock, in Zagreb, in the vicinity of Sisak, in Pazin, Rijeka, Krapina or Dubrovnik you can't because the cost of living is not the same, and also perhaps, I'm now hypothetically putting this on the table for consideration, there shouldn't be a price of work. If we have a county economic and social council, why don't we have a county or regional approach? Why wouldn't the minimumer be this is very maybe controversial to say, different in different environments? But why am I telling you this? For one reason, many workers experience injustice, which is that construction workers from Slavonia work very often on construction works in Zagreb. Now watch out for colleagues and colleagues, those from Slavonia are working on construction works in Zagreb, if we have regional access then the minimum one they should receive is not the one from Slavonia, not from Nova Gradiška, not from Topolje, not from Kotlin, but from Zagreb, and the minimum one in Zagreb cannot be 3,750 kuna. If you pay only rent it is 3,000 kuna minimum, out of 750 kuna for directors and all other expenses you cannot live in Slavonia you may be more difficult, but easier than in Zagreb. So I'm asking you if we already have a county economic and social council why we don't have that kind of access because this is colleagues and colleagues if you ask me to just take advantage of the workers. People who have no choice, who come from Slavonia every morning, and the highway is full of them if you go like me on the highway to Zagreb very often, you will see them. A van that transports workers to Zagreb or the surroundings of Zagreb where they will work all day, after which they still have 2.5 hours or two hours to return to their homes, and will do so for a minimumer, and someone from Zagreb would not work for a minimumer. What is this message, which is just, solid, is the same message to all workers who work, especially those from Slavonia that they are second-rate, that they are less valuable, that they do jobs that others will not. Another problem I will be apostrophysing in this brief debate is that this could be talked about all day is different ways in which employers imagine not paying minimum wage. We still have colleagues and colleagues to pay if I want to give you a decent salary, let's say the median salary of those 7,000 kunas. Do you know what that salary costs me as an employer? Well, almost that much. So a gross employee costs me not 7,000 kuna but 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna is a lot if you count on the state to take nearly half. But if that price were not seven, but 9,000 kuna, then I wouldn't think probably as an employer, I'd pay my employee more because... the employee is a more productive employee. I'm afraid I don't have time to trouble this too, but I have a few replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67418	You have several replicas, a respected representative of Nikolic...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67419	Thank you. Now I will allow you colleague Hajdukovic to continue the debate where you left off. You're coming from Slavonia just like me and we're aware that our Slavons are always the last holes in playing, and now that the cost of living is abnormally... today we're discussing minimum wage. Life in Slavonia with a minimum wage is not impossible but a spell of how to wait for the end of the month. I even asked from the ruling ranks if they felt that this minimumer amount was worthy of a normal and quality life. I was told it wasn't, but that's how it is. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67420	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67421	Thank you very much, colleague Nikolic. So I can't disagree with you, so if we look at the price of basic foods, it means, above all, those foods that we're going to start with oil, flour, etc. We see they've gone to heaven in the last year. At the same time we see the state of our agriculture, so we will discuss agriculture in the follow-up today, but about 30% of our needs satisfy our agricultural production. So, a defeated one piece of information, especially if you're looking at it through the prism of the fact that we've had a major global crisis, and that's the pandemic at one point the closure of all states and so on. So not to me that we're not self-sufficient, we can't feed our population at this point, which is devastating. And with these minimal incomes, the family in Slavonia simply can't live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67422	Dear Representative Pavić Željko.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67423	Your Honor. Today we heard a lot of wrong allegations and wrong facts here, one of these was that the opposition against the increase, the other was that the government was actually by arbitration between employers and social partners actually helping employers, on the other hand, but it was forgotten to say that the government had to act in a way that reduced parafiscal burdens, so if the parafiscal imposes on the employer were smaller, the employer would have far more space to pay the workers. In addition, we need to be aware that this salary that is now defined as a minimum wage is not enough to live and that the opposition is to increase, whether it is 100 kuna, 200, 300 kuna or 500 kuna for that we are, but we need to draw attention that it is not enough to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67424	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67425	Thank you, fellow Pavić. Well certainly against the increase we can't be, especially now that we're facing inflation and so on. We whenever we talk about something that the rulings don't like we'll get criticism that the opposition and the Priory is against everything, but our votes show that we've always voted for all the proposals that we've assessed to be a step forward. Any increase and any improvement in the position of workers is definitely, definitely going in that direction. But what worries me is something else, and that's a colleague doing a work inspection, what does the IRS do? Why do employers who find ways to avoid paying the minimum wage not punish themselves, not warn, so why is the state not on the side of the worker for whom she prescribed the minimum wage but is constantly a silent observer of what employers do? It's actually a question of all the questions. We can prescribe that minimum wage is 6,000 kuna if we don't do it for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67426	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67427	Col. Hajdukovic, it is true that the gross salary relative to the median is almost double, but let's demystify that gross salary, that contributions to pension and health insurance are actually our right for every individual not to take the state for their own sake but for our own sakes from which we will exercise some rights. What the State takes is a tax which is charged only after the deduction of these contributions. So let's say it the way it really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67428	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67429	My colleague Peric, I agree, so when this country is written off to take a tax, I would not object to it if we had effective health care available to everyone, where we do not have waiting lists, where our health care is not falling apart, where we do not have debts to wholesale drugs, etc. Then you'd understand such a great contribution. You would also understand the pension contribution if we had pensioners who could live with dignity from their pensions who had enough income to live decently and not survive but alive, so then I would accept it as a fact. There are a lot of givings in Sweden, but compare their health system, compare healthcare system availability, health system status, compare their pensions, and then dear colleagues can talk. Like this where we have to give a lot to get little or nothing, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67430	The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67431	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Have you noticed how the prime minister is communicating on a minimum wage increase? He says he will raise the minimum wage to 3.750 kuna because it is easy to remember, that amount. Of course, no one's 3,750 kuna is easy to remember, so I immediately suggest that they take a more memorable amount that is 4,000 kuna, and that's why it's easy to remember than he says it is 500 EUR and that's why it's easy to remember. So here I would firstly ask the prime minister first because we still have our currency and that we do not know when we will really receive the EURo in terms of inflation and everything else that threatens to be expressed in Croatian kunas when it determines what the minimum wage will be and thinks at all in terms of what it is and which is not memorable for Croatian citizens because here it is for them you will be surprised to still remember Croatian kuna. If we had a prime minister who really lives in reality, and not in his imaginary future, as he is already now, independent of the social and economic situation in his tomorrow's EUR, that I don't go any sharper, so I'm saying maybe a Brussels career because he's already getting used to that currency there, then we'd be a little different from this minimum wage. Because what's the problem with minimum wage? Of course, we're all for a minimum wage increase. And it is not disputed in the situation in which Croatian citizens are present today, any measure is welcome. But two things remain controversial. One way is to talk about minimum wage, and another is how that minimum wage is really going to increase. When we talk about how we talk about minimum wage, then we must be aware that it is a great success, and more revolutions will say that this has never happened before that they go in this amount compared to the media pay. However, it will predict that he is responsible because this has never happened before, or the HDZ government, to the greatest extent since they have led the country. Another thing when communicating on minimum wage is the fact that we cannot talk about the growth of minimum wage without being aware of who will actually pay the minimum wage. So here is trying to produce some nonexistent and dangerous conflict between workers and entrepreneurs. In a country that has a developed economy that has ever gone through a systematic rather than a wild economy market, we might be able to talk about capitalism and exploitation of workers in this classical Western sense. However, in the Republic of Croatia where we never had something that is serious and systematic capitalism, and eventually we talked about its buddyl variant, it's funny to entrepreneurs as a pro-pulsive part of Croatia that is somewhere between 3-4% but which draws us all forward to confront workers and thus create an animosity among our citizens rather than that those who should unite together in the fight for a better standard of living. Because what's wrong, I'm going back to that first first pay call. 10% okay. But what does 10% really mean in practice? I asked the secretary of state, if oil is now growing with inflation 17%, if bread is growing 3%, and it is growing in the last 6 years 8%, which in life's currencies, in bread, in milk, in cheese means for our citizens. Does it even mean anything? Or tomorrow and this increase, if it hasn't already eaten inflation. So, we have to be in place of abstract numbers, and I have to admit that we're all together, which is criticism and self-critics turned into the State Statistics Office yesterday and today when we criticized the prime minister and talked about minimum pay, we have to start talking about what people will understand. I don't care what my minimum wage is, does it mean that I do, because when we talk about minimum wage, we talk about people who don't have basic living needs, whether it means that I have more bread in the house tomorrow or that I have it at all. So that's the currency where the secretary of state should know how to speak to our citizens and tell you that's more than that, and it's not considering this inflation of bread today and whether it's going to be more bread tomorrow. And secondly, there is no conflict between entrepreneurs and workers. There are only Croatian citizens who are victims of poor economic policy from hollow to empty which is seen on the back, or on the burden of all our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67432	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67433	Thank you very much. Minimum wage, of course we all want it to be as big as possible. But you're also right that we can't say exactly she's that big. I would like mathematically to have all the employees, all of us here among us would like to share that that is over EUR 1,000's salary. The fact that neither the government nor we, but conditioned the current economic situation, the number of employees, but one detail I noticed as mayor that in city administrations and offices, the administrations of others those who do not work are protected as face bears, they and their salaries. However, there are workers who deserve double the salary. I can find that for example and I'll say a little later and you're protected, the people in the system are overprotected, they can work, they can't work, they're guaranteed sick, they're very difficult. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67434	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67435	The estimates of entrepreneurship associations are that about 70% of people depend directly or indirectly on state wages. So, in some ways, this measure will be welcomed because they don't have to, and not that they don't have to, but they've never been in this environment, in a position of self-development, entrepreneurial development, and then earning their own wages, but also the salaries of their employees. So, of course, there's no point in talking about minimum wage without taking serious reform measures at a wider level, increasing labour productivity, reforming local self-government and ultimately reducing our isolation. But this all unfortunately became at the level of the floscule and people uninteresting because we talked so much about reforms, and none of them ever really happened. How likely it is in this government's term it probably won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67436	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67437	Thank you, dear colleague Selak Rasdic. I'll take my chances and be the State Statistics Institute for a little while longer, and then I'll translate it into Croatian. So, in Croatia, 14% of our citizens spend on food, which is why we are the last in the EU, the only ones behind us are Romanians who spend 18%. Translated to Croatian, the Croats spend most of their income on food, which speaks of the nation's poverty. Because when we talk about media pay and when we talk about 7,000 kunas, fictionally, which is the average salary, but that's the exact sum of incorrect data, unfortunately, some people earn 100,000 dollars, some earn this minimum. And while 1.7% of the population holding most of the savings in Croatia dream of skiing and summering, most of our population literally dream of a warm room and a full plate and that is Croatian reality. With this increase we won't change much, we want something, but as you said inflation will eat most... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67438	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67439	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I will answer you as the State Statistics Institute, one of the most devastating research we could see has shown that, let's say, when we talk about food that is crucial to the selection of foods, it is not the origin of the food, it is not the quality of the food, but it is its price, and we are advocating it to the EU, which tells you everything about our purchasing power. At the same time, I should continue to trace these important data, but sometimes I fear that as some abstraction, they do not come to the ears and consciousness of our citizens because I also like to try to talk in concrete life measures, then average media pay, not average but medial, it is a big difference, pays 6,000 kuna, and 7,800 kuna consumer basket. So are we talking about now that most of our citizens are inside poverty if they can't have an employee family member who has two children can't support that family and pay for that consumer basket? That's the real question, not these 50,000 that have a minimum wage, but this whole number that has that, that we're keeping quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67440	Thank you. Honorable representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67441	Thank you. So the fact is, that minimum wage doesn't ensure a decent life on this amount, that's, that's absolutely a fact. The fact is that neither does it actually pay until the average does not guarantee a decent life. But you said one thing that I don't really agree with, and I think you should say it here. So, this optimism that if entrepreneurs, all entrepreneurs had better business conditions to then necessarily and all wage workers were more it's just not true, and there's the whole reality of our entrepreneurship being denied. We still have a large number in the entrepreneurship structure of those, a large number, significant number in, not in the IT sector, but in other industries that drive cars for 150,000 euros and pay minimum wages to workers. And then there's a conflict of interest between these workers and their employers. We still do, ma'am. Selak, we have this structure of entrepreneurship... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67442	Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Thank you very much, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67443	What we have is a poor economic policy, from hollow to empty, perhaps best characterized by this economic policy that is victims and entrepreneurs, so I'm not talking about a few partners who have earned millions but about an average Croatian micro-enterprise, because micro and small entrepreneurship is what a healthy economic policy should be based on, so conflict between them and workers. What you're saying, I really don't understand how you're so afraid of entrepreneurs. There are good and bad entrepreneurs on average, on average, at the level of the average, as well as other people, good and bad parliamentary representatives, good and bad professors, but conclude generally as you did in time and talk about being able to organize, so they will make some anti-work referendum in Croatia, so 3-4% of entrepreneurs, that they are a threat to workers, no. Entrepreneurs in Croatia if we are to try to conclude in principle with the exceptions of course are on the verge of survival and if they work according to the law we could lock the lock and we have to help them, and that will help the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67444	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67445	It's nice. My colleague Selak, I disagree with your part where you said we were. that the government put workers and employers in conflict today. I don't agree with that because it's not some simple act or some simple mass the prime minister said without having talked before. So, there's a conversation between unions and employers, their wishes that they said and what the government said, but she didn't say we're going to give you these 350 kunas as a burden, so we're not going to give you any compensatory measures in the next year to make up for that larger cost. And our math says that these 350 kuna times 12 months is 4,500 kuna, that it's another salary and just over 750 kunas more in a year. When we compare it to those five years ago, it's almost 16,000 kunas more those workers get with this government than they got 5 years ago. and this is not an insignificant amount in that industry of textiles, skin etc., but it has been quite led that each increase was also made through compensatory measures returned to employers. Returned and don't tell people... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67446	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67447	So also a security company with a textile industry that we talked a lot about, however, not to mention a service industry that's right next to their hip and that's quite an income helmet. However, therefore, fellow Boric, you do not have to convince me, this is not a question of my interpretation. Like everyone, I'm following what's going on in public and I'm following the reactions of major business associations, so this is not a question of my dissatisfaction, nor is it a question of my conversation, this is a question of just passing on the basic public message that we've all heard, which is that you can say that entrepreneurs are satisfied, but they're gathered within their associations, and all these associations have told you to stick to our pocket, and then boast that you're increasing the minimum wage is out of the question, and they've asked you to compensate them, and yet you haven't found a way or clearly told you how you're going to do it. So you don't have to convince me, they said, you saw it the same way I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67448	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I used to happen here to pick up a replica, but if my colleagues didn't see me, but now I don't have a replica, but I do, so since we're here, I just wanted to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67450	That, that's, that's compensation, that's what my colleague Boric said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67451	Well, in any case, hit the transferus hic salta colleagues, I just wanted to say that I agree with you that the state has destroyed many small and micro entrepreneurs, but also that in these frameworks, these still transition economies in some way or post-transition if you want. I think it's a good thing that there are mechanisms to protect workers from the kind of employers they have because, unfortunately, we read them every day in newspapers that are of some excess value instead of investing in workers, and in this way they create an even greater value they actually take for themselves, so that workers simply protect themselves from some kind of exploitation. Here's just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67452	Dear representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67453	I can't agree anymore that we need to protect workers' rights and that workers, especially women, are especially pregnant women, especially women who come back after the maternity leave of one of the most unprotected social groups. However, it should be borne in mind that this fictional entrepreneur, the horned grandmother, who waits to exploit his employee except in Marxist textbooks that were interesting in one part, even socially useful. Because there's no higher cost to an entrepreneur than to lose a good worker, so that's the highest cost. You invest in a person then you have to look for a new one on the market. So, the entrepreneur is in the interest of being able to pay and retain the worker, and we need to create a system in which people will not apply to the minimal, and then everything else works in the gray zone because no one can function so that they all contribute to the state. When a country fails in a wider economic policy, it also affects entrepreneurs who together have to fight for a better situation rather than against each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67454	Thank you. And now she will speak to the esteemed representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67455	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Payment Act and one of the major proposals of this law is to extend the definition and the introduction of supervision of extended collective agreements. [[/Intruder Reiner: Fellows, colleagues, colleagues speak, so don't talk to each other to distract her, please. Here you go.]] The extension of the minimum wage definition and to which it is contracted as such by a collective contract whose application has been extended in accordance with the general labour law, which is the Labour Act, facilitates the work of a competent inspection for the exercise of supervision and in part of workers' right to pay such a contracted salary which is more favourable than legal and in part of the minimum increases. For example. where an extended collective contract provides a minimum wage amount greater than the minimum. 7,000 kuna, and the employer only paid the amount by the regulation of the prescribed minimum wage, the employer is not a misdemeanor for failure to pay the minimum wage. The worker could only request payment in the court procedure, and the court proceedings usually take a certain period of time, are not free, and workers were not often or decided for them in particular for smaller amounts. According to the amended provisions, the inspection is required to verify that the employer has paid the minimum amount agreed on by an extended collective contract for each post. So, for example. If the employer has not paid those 7,000 kunas out of the example, they will be fined with a high fine for the offence from 60 to 100,000 kuna, and for the person responsible for the employer or natural person of the craftsman is prescribed a fine of between 7,000 and 10,000 kuna. In the Republic of Croatia, only one collective contract is currently extended to all business entities of activity and the one in construction. For example, it provides for 10 groups of jobs and for each group of businesses is agreed to pay a certain amount. Thus, the second group of jobs already has an estimated salary that is higher than the minimum wage regulation, which is 4,830, up to about 11,000 kuna for the most complex group of jobs. In this way, a worker who performs the most complex jobs is considered to be a minimum wage of 11,000 kuna and must be paid as such to a worker. This achieves the social security of workers and protects employers who have so far maintained the application of an extended collective contract. Also for overtime and night work and for working on Sundays, holidays or other days, the worker will have the right to raise wages at least in the height of the collective contract whose application has been extended. This is how these previously mentioned contracts are about increasing the labour price of 30% for overtime and night work, and for working on Sundays 50%. So here it is also highlighted otherwise, if that amount is not paid, it will be dealt with both infringing and paying fines and there is an expression and importance and an effective joint labour inspection and the Tax Administration, since it is necessary to calculate whether the employer correctly calculated the increase in order for the competent inspection to punish it. These are examples that show that collective bargaining is in the interests of both workers and employers because collective contracts provide workers with a higher level of rights, job conditions stability and a favourable working environment, and the employer ensures social peace, business stability and the adaptability of regulations to its specific needs. Different international and domestic research shows that better working conditions are for those employers who have a collective contract and that collective bargaining contributes to better salaries and working conditions and fair and productive labour relations, and protection provided by minimum wage can be provided by collective agreements, as is the case only in six EU Member States or legal minimum salaries, which are in the rest of the EU countries that we belong to. Research also shows that Member States with a large scope of collective bargaining usually have a low share of low-income workers and high minimum wages that weighs and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67456	We have three replicas, stay here. He is the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67457	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Pocrnic Radosevic, so here you are, like many today's MPs who participated in the discussion, mentioned exactly the importance of collective bargaining, the importance of social dialogue, of course respecting all social partners, and here I believe you will agree with me that after all we've heard about the government of the Republic of Croatia just respecting social partners through social dialogue, but also respecting, of course, one of the overall situations in which we are all in today's Covid-19 virus era and that in one optimal and responsible but successful way, the government solves all the problems that arises, including raising the minimum wages that today's topic. Of course, here's another mention that it seems to me that we've been in a big, big crisis for over a year and a half. One time that's hard for all of us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67458	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67459	Thank you, fellow Simic, so you mentioned more things, among other things, the need for collective bargaining and the adoption of collective agreements. Of course it matters. Here you come from health care and certainly there are plenty of examples that and in health care certain conditions have improved by collective bargaining because not everyone is unhappy with wages. So they're not in all sectors of pay small or insufficient, there are and, but people want better working conditions. I think that's exactly what our health care professionals often complain about and because of their working conditions leave the country, not because of their salaries. So the elements for collective bargaining certainly do, and I think it needs to be promoted as much as possible, and this government certainly does and allows employers and workers to, yes and encourage them to negotiate as collectively as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67460	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67461	Thank you very much. My colleagues, many workers, and mostly workers, our women work in difficult conditions for small wages regardless of legal frameworks. They literally have to be marked when they have a period so they can go to the bathroom, stand on their feet. I'm not clear to me as a man, and here I am looking into all of your women's eyes as you are now talking about a salary increase, and at the same time you're giving up your femininity in order to get rid of Plenkovic and your party card, so you didn't support that hygiene supplies, paddlings and everything else for women will be tax-free. I don't understand how far that hypocrisy goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67462	Well, that really has nothing to do with minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67463	It matters because it affects our workers who are now standing on their feet and are marked when they have a period, whether they can go to the bathroom or not, if they can sit down for much less than the current prescribed small salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67464	You've exceeded your time with your colleague Bull...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67465	And you're... you're incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67466	...and the subject completely. You will not talk to me like that because I am warning you about Article 232 because you spoke out of the question. Here are the respected MPs, Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67467	Here, my colleague Bulj can answer you that this is not part of the topic and that I will not answer you, and I can answer you, and you have used your minutes to deal with this problem a little bit, too bad you weren't at the time when it was discussed. You can look at the debate and see what arguments I used. And that reducing taxes from 25% to 5% would not contribute to cheap hygiene supplies or any other product. And experience has shown very well that when VAT is reduced that services do not fuck as well as products. So is coffee cheaper when taxes, when taxes are reduced in that activity? So I don't think you really need to deal with this, and listen to the debate and you'll see that I've really made a lot more suggestions than the ones that are criticizing me. But thanks anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67468	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67469	Article 238, demeaning parliamentary representatives. My colleague Bulj followed this debate, and he was helping women on the ground, so he was not on it directly, and I, by following this debate closely, expect her to propose a reduction of VAT to male razors, but not just any one but one with the scent of roses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67470	So you are aware that you have now seriously violated the Rules of Procedure and that this has nothing to do with the subject, so the basis of Article 240(2) gives you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. You can't. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67471	Here's a respected colleague, you've made a good pledoia here for collective bargaining and a collective contract, a socialian, which is absolutely something that is acceptable and that needs to be stimulated. However, in this particular case given the fact that this is an important fact that only one branch has an extended general collective contract this not-general but an extended collective contract goes against what you really want to show is that stimulating the agreement. I am in favour of the possibility that we, in the Minimum Salary Act, install all possible safeguard mechanisms and yes, and that, with all that is possible, we encourage this collective bargaining that can provide additional insurance to workers. So it's no reason not to cover all possible forms of acting in this law now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67472	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67473	Thank you, colleague Vidovic, I certainly respect your opinion since you have been engaged in labour relations and the labour market for years, and I believe that both collective bargaining and all of these supplements that you mention on salary will be more discussed in, when the new Labour Act is being adopted and I believe that this is why I am talking about collective bargaining today so that maybe someone can hear us from others, so that other sectors such as construction decide to do a little more intensive collective bargaining. To gather as many employers and business entities as possible to participate in collective bargaining because certainly as many as possible, the effect can only be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67474	You can stay right away, and we'll go to the closing words, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, you'll be speaking. Dear representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67475	Thank you. I can go on, yeah, that's not how I planned it. Now I'm sorry, I'm having a little trouble with my voice and my nose, but that's the time of year, please. I can't hear, I can't hear, I can't hear. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] The minimum wage is one of the most important instruments of social and economic policy in the country. In the Republic of Croatia, the minimum wage issue is not left to the market the same as in most European countries. The minimum wage represents the lowest socially acceptable work price for full-time and is one of the elements in the fight against poverty which is still far from decent life, we are aware of that, and this government as well as the previous government has shown that raising their minimum wage and living standards from year to year is one of the priorities. But as we've been discussing this subject for hours now, we've had enough and we've moved away from the basic subject, so I get the feeling that what we heard from our promoter this morning is that we've already forgotten a little bit about what this bill applies to. So I'm going to highlight some basic things about this particular law. This is an extension of the definition of minimum wage and the introduction of supervision of extended collective agreements, allowing, in accordance with the Labour Act, competent inspection of the exercise of supervision in part of workers' right to pay such a contracted minimum wage that is more favourable than the legal one. It is then mandatory to contract minimum wages in gross amount. Contracting the amount of net salary has thus far been allowed, or nothing has been prohibited, which was not favourable for workers especially in cases where tax system reforms are carried out, and thus workers with lower salaries that are contracted or which are contracted in the net amount do not feel that benefit at all. Then, the exemption from the minimum wage amount and the increase in wages due to the difficult working conditions, thereby excluding, in a way, any increase in wages provided for by the Labour Act. Since there has been no explicit increase from this base so far, the increase from this base has not been part of the minimum wage, some employers have abused these provisions and are now regulated. What we mentioned today was also a ban on paying minimum wages because by adopting the law in question, minimum wage becomes a right that a worker cannot give up. Which is good because abuses have been disabled in such a way that the worker as a weak party would agree to pay him less than the legal minimum, and from now on there will be an infringement provision for the agreement. Then there is the strengthening of the cooperation of inspection bodies by further emphasising the cooperation of inspection bodies responsible for the work and tax administrations that are required to cooperate in carrying out inspection controls. Extending the liability of the employer and the responsible person, thereby in some way prescribing fines to prevent employers from fulfilling their obligations to the worker. Under the minimum wage law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a minimum wage regulation for each calendar year and a decision for the next calendar year shall be taken by 31 October of the current year. Under that law, the minimum wage cannot be determined in the amount of less than the amount established for the previous year and is increased after consultations with the social partners, so as to satisfy the interests of both workers and employers to the greatest extent possible. At the HDZ Club with satisfaction and approval, we received news that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has today adopted a regulation in which the minimum wage of 2022 amounts to 3.750 kuna, which is for 350 kuna more than last year. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Payment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67476	Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67477	I thank the chairman. So, for the end, just a few accentes. She was well noticed by a colleague here we talked more and we talked more about government regulations than the law itself because perhaps with some changes that are within the law and we have no objections, but we have observations, or we are half-limising whether we need a system in which the state defines the amount of minimum wage. Here at first I'm going to say here there's no colleague, just before she talked about how there's a lot of entrepreneurs driving big Mercedes today, and they pay the minimum wage, maybe the rest of the salary is black, so how they actually exploit the workers, and they're enjoying the Mercedes. I wouldn't like to get off this one, so to speak, the stage goes away actually a classic story that spreads, which in some way portrays entrepreneurs as some kind of criminal. The word entrepreneurs in Croatia may be as hated as politicians, and in fact the reality is quite different. So, there are only bad and good entrepreneurs. Those entrepreneurs who act in this way really need to be punished, and eventually punish them and the market because there is no I mean greater and happier and for entrepreneurs when there is a satisfied worker. So, how is Croatia today? As I said earlier in the introduction, Croatia has the fifth minimum wage in the EU, Bulgaria, Latvia, Romania and Hungary are behind us. The purchasing power of citizens has been discussed by Croatia by a third lower than the EU average despite price levels in 2020 being 35% lower than the EU average. So someone would expect the purchasing power to be greater, but it's not. EU countries which do not have a legally regulated minimum wage in Austria, Denmark, Finland and Sweden, so when we talk about some of them in particular about Scandinavian countries, we are talking about economies that are, or social countries, they are almost said to have socialistic characteristics, and in fact, it is quite the opposite. So these are markets, developed markets, developed market economies where there's a very sharp competition but it's strictly regulated, which means no godparents, no relatives, no my investors, so there's no such level of corruption. Here I will now if we compare Denmark and Croatia, Denmark is ranked worldwide on the Doing Business 3, Croatia is 58, the level of perception of corruption in Denmark is 1, in Croatia is 60. The government's real percentage of the maximum value in Denmark is 98, in Croatia it is 63. So we talked about whether or not we have what, so what if we have people who agree to pay the salary that is less than this legal minimum, which if we have industries that can't pay that minimum wage, are we going to get rid of those industries, close someone. There are sometimes comments that say if this industry can't pay the salary that's on the poverty line that industry didn't deserve to exist. Is that exactly what we want? We forget whether workers in such an industry are practically condemned to unemployment, which leads to whether or not we are actually conducting minimum wage levels, we insist that it is increased to ultimately lead to problems or unemployment. The best way to raise generally all salaries is therefore to raise the productivity of work because the wages are indeed created in production cannot be created by some government decree. Why don't the government put a minimum wage of 10, 12 thousand kuna, why 3,700. And the best protection of jobs is therefore not a state or any political decree but a high demand for jobs. So employers need to raise their wages not because it's someone's decision and someone ordered them to do it, but because they see the benefits for themselves. For themselves not to drive Mercedes is great but to have satisfied workers who are satisfied with the conditions, working conditions. So no one will come and invest and develop the economy of the country in which the godmothers and relatives rule it's in the end I mean our, our reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67478	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the MOST will finally speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67479	In Croatia, workers are literally aware that they do not exist in essence. Today we have a problem and numbers of employees but we also have a problem for people who are looking for and looking for certain people, workers who should be doing jobs. The working class is downgraded. So me, here I come from Dalmatia just looking, watching the shipbuilding Brodotrogir, the squires of the others and Split, they're downgraded and that potential we had in Dalmatia, Istria, the Rivers in all our parts is diminished. Why is the worker being demeaned? A little while ago, I mentioned merchants and hypocrisy even on the side of women in the assembly who were only at a certain point ready to hide behind the card or behind the party president. I personally have to talk when we talk about minimum wage that I saw as mayor when I took over the city of Sinj, so city service and state services are simply the majority of them in the city service, there are good quality people who would like to have 10 times the salary. So they do, they're industrious. However, they do, industrious if the triba stays 24 hours, not many, but there are, however, these outsourced city officials are incredibly not the problem of being the head and becoming president of HDZ behind this, no president, locked doors, going to the mayor's office, and the head of the mayor's office. He's going on a vacation, that's no problem. Well, the usdd per year says now I'm gonna open this maternity ward, so I guess the woman is pregnant and I have no idea. Maybe the man got pregnant in the campaign when he lost the election, I can't talk about it right now. But the fact is that it's unfair for people who are hard to earn their salary in the private sector, that's the attitude of people within the system because the system rewards such people who boycott. He will no longer return that loser who lost to me the election will not, but will receive him from the county below Boban and Sanader to be a county employee, an official Don't be nervous, you're a little nervous. [[Intruder Reiner: We are talking about the Law on the Completion of the Minimum Payment Act.]] And I'm talking about wages. [[I'm not nervous at all, I'm telling you to stick to the subject.]] Exactly. This one has 10,000 kunas, boycotts legally elected authorities, mayors [[Intruder Reiner: And did you read it at all?]] He's boycotting, boycotting because he has a credit card for what I came to power as my colleague Bačić. [[Intruder Reiner: Have you read this law at all?]] He's boycotting! And he's getting paid. And how do you get rid of them, exterminate them from the city administration? Protected like bears. Now that's a question, that's a question. Boycott the legally elected power, and being a city official or a substitute, and having 10...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67480	Okay, now I'm giving you a second reminder by taking away the words because you're talking in article 232 completely off topic. I've asked you nicely not to speak outside the subject, you're not listening to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67481	What am I supposed to say now? Would you let me finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67482	I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67483	Can I keep talking?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67484	You can't, of course you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67485	So here I would just ask the Bureau of Parliament to exactly tell Mr. Reiner to write me what I'm going to say in the future, this is more than embarrassing. You're in pain of truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67486	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. As we have already said in the opening statement, that is, our club president supporting or not supporting this law will depend on accepting or not accepting the amendments that we will refer to your proposal. What is positive throughout this story about this law, which is that the government has decided to install a minimum wage contract in gross amount into this law so that workers with minimum salaries can benefit from any subsequent tax charge. Because when you make a net deal, the tax charge only goes to the employer and that's something that's positive. However, we are saddened by the fact that you have not respected almost any of the remarks that have already been crystallized on both the Committee of Resolution and here at the plenary session when it comes to the law in the first reading. Thus, through this proposal, these amendments to the law go on to add pay, for example, due to difficult working conditions or to work on a Sunday exemption from minimum wage, i.e. on the basis of a collective contract, to be counted on a minimum wage. And that's okay. However, the question arises why is not all the supplements excluded? Which is why, for example, shifts or past work have not been treated as well as additions defined by collective agreements such as difficult working or working conditions on Sundays. What is more problematic is this: This when we talk about shutting down these specifically two additions made it difficult to work and work on Sundays, this is about increasing the minimum wage for those workers with employers, who have a collective contract and who satisfy the nature of the business of those conditions. However, what about 49% of workers who are not covered by collective agreements? For them, de facto, it means that their addition to work on Sundays or in difficult conditions can be one lip and that it is legal and there is nothing illegal about it, noting that there are workers in the processing industry sectors here. So these are textiles, clothing, furniture, retail trade, 200,000 employees, workers, protection in investigative activities, personal, service activities, and the good part is sectors especially when we talk about 200,000 retail workers, where most of them are women in the structure of employment and lower-skilled workforce. So there is no equal position for them in this part of the law as for other workers, and that is one reason that we simply consider that even he himself is sufficient not to fully support this proposal. Although we can't say we're not looking forward to the facts here's how we heard today's regulation to raise workers' salaries in Croatia by 350 kuna. However, taking into account the fact that this is a 10% increase compared to January 1st and that prices or inflation have already led to such purchases where some foods have already exceeded that 10% minimum wage increase such as 12.2% gas, fuel 19%, fat oils 17.4%, vegetables, sugar, housing. So we come to a serious danger that actually this increase in minimum wage eats inflation, or that workers don't feel it at all because they already have increased costs. We regret that the minimum wage is paid in this law, and in Croatia at all does not begin to define as what should be, and this is a dignified salary. Because as long as we don't take minimum wage as a salary that is enough for the decent lives of workers and his family, I'm afraid that I am the minimum wage institute as such becomes one administrative catcher in which this or that government can boast that it will increase by the end of its term of office, as Plenkovic said, to raise the minimum wage, a share of 50% of the average salary by the end of the term of office. But it is again and the average salary in Croatia is not enough for a decent life and we will not actually do much. I don't have time anymore, but I think I've actually managed to present to you the essences and the reasons why if our amendments won't be accepted we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67488	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Eric Fabianic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67489	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I will look a little bit at what the debates were about this item of the agenda because we have, we have something to say to ourselves, and still holding on to the subject, although I say it is also bid on figures that should be minimum wage, and it was about today being with this government regulation of EUR 500. I have said one thing several times for this speaker, and I calculated it six years ago if not more, then six years ago, an adequate minimumer in Croatia should have been 600, 600 EUR. So we're still missing, we're still missing 100 Euros. We are missing for 100 EUR which is in some project by the end of this term, no. It's a simple thing to look at purely mathematically, I mentioned some countries have no law on, or that they don't have a regulated minimumer. They have a regulated minimumer, but it's not regulated by the Minimum Payment Act. For example, you should look at it. materials from the screening that were made for a European decent, decent or whatever we want to say pay, then we will see that each country has it regulated but in different ways and that it exists. And now that you take that into account these minimals, let's beat them up, beat them into purchasing power that is now unfortunately reduced by inflation and make your own calculations, I will neither impose it on you nor suggest it. And given that it's a difficult decision to go to work abroad, to have a family that's here and that transport or travel from a job abroad or back to whether it's a weekend or once a month and that's to quantify and calculate what it means in Istria, what it means in Primorje-Gorski, what it means about Međimurje County, depending on whether you're going to work in Austria, Slovenia or elsewhere. All that can be quantified, I'm telling you that we're down to EUR 100 if we're going to talk about amounts. But we didn't come here to talk about the amounts, we came here to talk about ourselves, about the law itself. And yes, I'm glad and the fact is that the government really respects social partners, but my question is how much social partners respect the government, I just turned the saw upside down. Because as I said in my opening debate on behalf of the club, we don't have a solution here. We have a tripartite part here, a tripartite part, why, because the government is talking to one, to the other, and then, then this one, both unions and employers, instead of simply saying "let's make a deal," because we need an almost solution. But the moment you don't make the almost solution, you're a little high. And now I'm going to tell you why. Outside of workers who are in the interest of making their salaries as high as possible, the greater the pay for higher pension and health benefits. Why, then, the government is denying itself greater income for what is the primary business of this country, and it is not. Because when we talked about contributions, it was talked about, and contributions to wages and wages are basically labor money. Do workers manage pension funds? And not exactly, they have one member of the board of directors, or the board of directors, and not exactly. And HZZO. With pension funds at a loss, but I got it out, and I was already talking about how much the PGG's extra money from the health insurance contribution is left in the state register. It's also mathematically very easy to prove, very easy to prove. Whether we're managing the health system, no, and according to the reform that's going on, it's going to be even more centralized. But about that then, that's one whole, completely different story. Expansion of collective agreements, severe torment. The Minister's Regulation, as well as the government's pay regulation. What's the problem? All it takes is political will, put people in line. And frankly, I don't see a Croatian employer as some kind of Buddha being led in an imported second-hand Mercedes, absolutely not. Here the game is much bigger, much stronger. Here's the question of investment funds, here's the question of stock companies, not people who drive pompously in some Mercedes. There's a very serious story because here it's about large capital that takes advantage of these weaknesses that we're talking about today because it pays a little differently for its employee in their country, pays a little differently. Here he knows he can use it and only [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for the end if you let me... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67490	Thank you, you've been way past your time, colleague Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67491	...that how to accept amendments is a condition for supporting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67492	Honorable MP Bacic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I suppose you'll give me a warning, but I think Mr. Fabianic hurt Article 238. Namely, Mr. Fabianic you say that you have long claimed that the minimum wage should be EUR 600, and I will remind you that in the first reading phonogram when you spoke on behalf of the club you said that you expect the government to raise a minimum salary of 300 kuna, so at 3,700 which is far from EUR 600, which is in line with what you just said. So, I think you should support the law because we went above what you claimed before, first of all, with a minimum wage. A month. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67494	Dear Representative Bačić, you know for yourself that this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure because whatever anyone is saying today or tomorrow is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure if it is different facts, so you get a warning. This one, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, will finally speak now to the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67495	Thank you. So, the Green-Left Block Club has submitted amendments to these amendments to the amendments and amendments to the Minimum Payment Act for the reason that we believe that these amendments and additions have failed what we think should be the goal, and that is the minimum wage of a truly minimum guaranteed salary. In particular, therefore, what our amendments went in the direction is that we cannot actually allow this Law to be reduced by any collective agreement or by any other way. Also, although there is a significant step here in terms of what does not enter the minimum wage, in terms of the supplement we added that except for the above-mentioned supplements include all other pay additives. So that minimum wage is really the naked guaranteed part for full-time and that it can't be reduced in any way. What is actually our political goal somewhere, and that is to define the criteria for calculating the minimum wage in the sense that alone, the government regulation itself defines not only the amount but that there are very clearly attributed criteria. Here it has failed to set these criteria, exactly what these criteria are and what has been prescribed and what has been missed in these discussions is that we have a consensus on what our goal is in the next few years. We aim at a political goal, that the minimum wage is tied to the percentage of the average salary and that it is at least 60% of the average salary. So it's only when the minimum wage is 60% of the average we can say that we started, that we started the way to get workers out of the position of working pores, or those who work, and they're poor. Because that's our key problem. Our key problem isn't these 51 grand just working for a minimumer, we're having a problem with our largest share of the population, working, working for wages that are less than average. And that actually when you have a four-member family and you have incomes like the average households have, here I was looking right at, in 2019. 93 and some kuna, that you actually very often, especially families with more children are exposed to poverty, although you do, although you do. If that were the case, it shows me the structure of household consumption where you can see that most of the household costs go to more than 20% of the food. After that, it goes to housing costs and director's expenses. What these liberals often say is that people spend on communication, it's in the last place. Less than 5%. So when we look at the structure of the consumption of average Croatian households, we see that these households are poor and we see this by what the most money goes to. I wanted to say that in fact the minimum wage mechanism is only one, only one mechanism in a series that should have this situation changed, and the first and the basic policy should actually be the economic policy that moves to change the structure of the Croatian economy. Our problem is that our structure of economic operators is such that more than 90% of the subjects are micro and small entrepreneurs. Who are workers themselves, who are workers themselves, are workers themselves in these companies and who are in a very unfavourable position on the market because they are unprotected from global competition, and are very often forced and exposed to it. The second thing is that for these 51 thousand we have to see which industries, which make the minimum wage the industries, or where the revenues are so low. It's mostly the textile, leather, shoe industry. We know that they depend on a lot of business, so let's say and let's clearly plan that some of the resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, less than it, but at least from the VFO, or new financial perspective, will focus precisely on modernization, new technology, raising the actual competitiveness of these companies in order to actually reduce the need for labour that is ready to work for minimum wage, i.e. for workers to be able, so that employers can pay more. 'Cause it's really a question. Why do we have such a large share of companies that can't actually pay off... [[/Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67496	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivan You can see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67497	Dear representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to thank you for your attention and constructive discussion. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Minimum Payment Act is the result of intensive work involving representatives of the competent resolution authorities, as well as representatives of the social partners. Since it is a socially sensitive institute, all newspapers have been subject to compromise agreements, in order to achieve optimal protection of workers. In recent years, the government has paid particular attention to the movement of minimum wage. If we look at the movement of minimum wage from 2016 onwards, it is not only about nominal growth of minimum wages, but about the increase in the share of gross minimum wage in average salary. It is also for the duration of today's parliamentary debate that the government has adopted a minimum wage regulation for 2022. Taking into account the new amount of 4,687 kuna gross, i.e. 3,750 kuna, the net share of the minimum salary in the government's gross salary for the government's term of office from the initial 38% in 2016, reached 49.21% of the average gross salary for the period January to July 2021 with a trend of further growth to reach the assumed target of 50% of the average gross salary. As one of the... The foundation of this government, the goal of minimum wage being 60% of the media salary is achieved, the share of the minimum wage in the median salary in July of this year is therefore 60.19%. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Recognizing the importance of social dialogue, we are particularly pleased that this proposal is the result of constructive joint work and agreement with our social partners. We would like to point out once again that the solutions proposed in this law will improve the minimum wage system in the Republic of Croatia, further protect workers and will foster collective bargaining as one of the highest values of the labour legal system through certain provisions. I thank you once again for inviting you to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67498	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now, for technical reasons, we're going to streaming as nicely Croatian says we take a break this is now 17.44, 17, sometime until 18 hours then. It's 5:00.44.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67600	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 1800 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. Does the applicant’s representative or the applicant wish to give an additional explanation? Yes, Agent Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67601	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, it is nice to present the law as a promoter from this pay phone, especially if the law is short, although it has only 2 articles and it brings an extremely great benefit to more than 100,000 people of the Republic of Croatia mainly in rural areas where incomes are lower when we talk about pensioners, but this is not just a law for pensioners, but all of our citizens who, at the moment, have small incomes. Introductoryly, I would say something about the importance of this supplementary health insurance which is defined by the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. Therefore, the basic task of the basic benefit given to all by this law is that if they are secured through supplementary health insurance or to pay for themselves or that the salaries of the State do not pay for them any participation of health services. So, these insurance companies are free of participation payments. So, what is the goal of achieving additional health insurance? The availability of healthcare for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia shall be achieved regardless of the property situation. Today, on the scene of the Republic of Croatia, we have a public insurance company that is HZZO and we have 7 private insurance companies. With both the public insurance provider and the public insurance provider one million and 750 thousand citizens paying the policy 70 kuna a month. This is a nice income in a special account because this insurance company has a separate account from the HZZO's general account and on that account from citizens who pay left somewhere more than 135 million kuna per month. For about 600,000 citizens in 13 categories, the state pays additional health insurance. Of these 13 categories 2 are related to the income censorship. So, income censorship per family member and income censorship of a person who lives alone. At this point, the relationship is to be this practical half. 300,000 citizens are in these 11 special categories and 300,000 people receive it or have the right to a policy, a free supplementary health insurance policy or to the burden of the state because of these two censors. Private insurance companies have about 300,000 policies mostly young and healthier people because they played a big game on the public stage and offered additional health insurance policies and 39 kuna, but their role in this additional health insurance is something different because private health insurance must have, must have profit. And now we're coming up with that famous word that we're going around, about which we're going to go about, and the essence of the change of laws, which is the census. What exactly is a census? Census in supplementary health insurance is a border that protects citizens with low incomes and pays the state instead. It was set up in 2004 and was changed by 3% in 2020 and time had long run over, because by 2020 there was not even any mechanism of alignment with wage growth and cost of life. As a result, a large number of people fell out of the census whether because of the increase in wages, in particular and minimum wages, so the topics from the 1st item of the agenda, either because of the pension coordination, or because of the death of a spouse, because if they lived from one pension husband and women had 3 thousand kunas, both were released from payment of supplementary health insurance, and then the pensioner died, the surviving wife got 70% and now she is single and has more than 2100 kuna, or she has 2,100 kuna, and that is 100 kuna above the existing census. So, and because of that, because of receiving money from local self-government units whether it's Christmases, the social aid of various characters was mostly from cities, and there was a lot of disdain, people were reluctant why you couldn't free us from getting into these censorships. He can't. The state can, for example, do. when the Government has made a decision on the payment of Covid's allowance, it may decide not to, therefore, not to enter the income censorship. The local self-government unit does not have these powers, and the law stipulates that all citizens' incomes are collected or collected in respect of censorship. The very essence of the protection of citizens should be this: to place the censorship at an appropriate level, not at a low level, but at an appropriate level and set up a harmonisation mechanism so that citizens do not fall out for these reasons for censorship to protect those that I have protected permanently. So that's what this job of ours is about, or what the censors are supposed to do. By amending this Act, I propose a new level of protection measures for citizens with censorship, not being invented in mind, a censorship that is consistent with the percentage of wage growth and pension coordination over a 10-year period, and then the annual harmonisation mechanism of the law that is already in place is adopted. So, in this law that I repeat again, there are only two articles that estimate that it will include about 120,000 users, so new users, and that in the following year, about 100 million kuna will be needed on the spending side of the budget. You can't guess in number, but it's a certain assessment and the government has accepted that assessment. Otherwise, the battle with the censorship and the price of the policy and the announcements of an increase in the price of the supplemental health insurance policy has been going on for me since 2016, and there have been all kinds of interventions, let's just say inclusion in this story. However, what has decided that now that it is the force of arguments to intervene like this now is a trend, the trend of these protected income censors has decreased from 2016 to the end of 2020 from 592 thousand users or protected persons to 305,000. So this trend, despite the increase of 47 kuna in 2020, continued to decline. I'm not talking about the structure of those people inside, I'm talking about the number of users and the number of protected citizens. I've personally made four amendments to the law in the procedure. This is the 3rd time to discuss this Law in front of this high house and I think this will be the 3rd happiness not for us, for the income-poor citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it can be for all of us regardless of what I propose, for all of us to be honored that we have made one step towards their improvement. So at this point, I thank all those who have signed the emergency procedures because they were from the parliamentary majority, but also from the Most and HSS. I didn't ask too much. They'd probably be anybody else who understands this problem, but I thank them as if they are those who have otherwise supported this activity before. As a promoter, I accept the amendment of the Government, which is Amendment 1, Amendment 1, which is of nootechnic nature. Namely, nothing in this Law is wrong, but it's nomotechnically correct to put the number of censorships written in the previous law before the alignment, and we wrote the amount after the alignment. So I wrote the amount after the alignment. Therefore, it is correct and I accept the amendment of the government. I also accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee to which this Law will take effect the day following its publication in the National Journal, which is somewhere in early November of this month, because although I wrote that I would like it to come into effect on 1 November we are in a time-based chat and it is almost impossible for the President of the Republic to sign and that would go the normal way, so it is better this way. With that I would stop here, I would get involved another time in the debate, and I would give you a chance to talk more about this, so some of you and have participated in some of our activities in 2016 and 2019, me and my party colleagues, and I'm sure you've been spoken to multiple times when they came out of these censors, why don't you change it, etc., so I'm also giving you a chance to talk about this, I'll do it again or twice, depending on how much provocation, report for the debate as a proposer, but here I would stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67602	Stay, stay a little longer and now. Mr. Kirin, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67603	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary, the Honorable Representative and the Proposer. The current government has an understanding and accepts your proposal and the result will probably be confirmed tomorrow. The increase in income censorship compared to the current circus is 25%, so another 120,000 citizens will have additional insurance on the burden of the State budget. This shows the government's social sensibilities for vulnerable groups of citizens. Please, have you thought or thought other than this income criterion and censorship about possibly once an asset censorship, in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67604	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67605	Thank you very much, thank you very much. But it is likely that in this country soon, property censorships will need to be introduced in this country because we will not avoid them if we go according to all the criteria and the assessment of poverty and the fight against poverty, as the countries of the European Union do, but I do not decide. It will be decided by this or some other parliamentary majority, and I am sure that in some future it will not be possible to avoid it, and I am glad, at first, you said, income, I am glad that you have corrected yourself, this is an income census and one of the censorships that has been most controlled in this country, because there have been 18 years and the malversions with this income censorship have indeed been reduced to a minimum, I can confirm that because I have been following this area for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67606	Thank you. Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67607	Dear colleague Hrelja, this increase in censorship should certainly be welcomed, but the fact remains that 600,000 pensioners have a pension below the poverty line. The gap is also growing among gender benefits, where Croatia is only a 6th member of the European Union which is increasing in the difference between men's and women's pensions for the benefit of men. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67608	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67609	Thank you very much for this question. So the number of 600,000 would be discussed because that's the statistical data, when you look at only one category, and that's income. It could therefore be discussed, but I do not dispute the importance and weight of poverty in the Republic of Croatia. For me personally and what I did as president of the Retired Party, the fight against poverty is won after you find out how much that poverty really has. You get it by giving, but you don't get it by taking. This is one of the methods of not taking, so it's a little pebble in the mosaic of fighting poverty, and that's why it's good, I'm sure, welcome. So, of course for giving, we're going to have to have very precise criteria, not to give to the wrong one, always.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67610	Mrs. Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67611	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. So, as you said yourself, this Law only has two articles, however very significant. The aim of this Act is to increase social security, our fellow citizens who have fewer and according to whom we must be solid and also, the aim is to increase the censorship to achieve a free additional health insurance policy. Now, the profit census has not been changed since 2008 until 2020, when this government increased it in May 2020, and these changes will significantly increase the income censorship. What is good is that changes from 2020 have introduced indexing, i.e. increasing, or synchronising the income censorship, so I ask you as one of the major acquaintances of the pension system in our Croatian Parliament and as a person who knows the social protection system very well the difference between indexing and increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67612	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67613	Well, there's a lot of times there's this controversy that's synchronizing, and that's an increase. Here in this law we have tomorrow a decision to increase the censorship, and by the end of November the indexing mechanism will take place. I am happy that this will be the shortest valid censors, they will be increased by the end of November. Or, you want me to paint you the difference between coordination and growth. You're in sync when Sarkozy has to put a brick under his shoe to match Carla Bruni, and this one, it's growing when you turn around, and your little girl or boyfriend is standing up for the wedding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67614	Mr. Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67615	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleague Hrelja. So here, by adopting and accepting this Act, it would allow 120 thousand almost newly-involved citizens to get, not to say get, actually to ensure payment of the policy, or premium of supplementary health insurance from the State budget, which would bear over 400 thousand of all those covered by the payment of the premium of supplementary health insurance precisely from the State budget funds. I'm interested in what other groups of our society are covered by the payment of an additional health insurance policy other than our poorest citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67617	Thank you very much. So, the categories that are covered by which the state pays supplementary health insurance, i.e. the supplementary health insurance policy, are voluntary donors, regular students and students older than 18 years, organ donors, 100% disabled, but they have a temporary solution to established disability for a specified time, then we have three other categories of this, three categories, four categories of people with disabilities and we have at the end of the harvest, the latest category, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, also have a free supplementary health insurance policy, with the largest number being students, and then persons with disabilities, total.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67618	Mr. Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67619	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, my colleague Hrelja. You've been in politics for a long time, this issue, this problem that we're talking about today, was present at the time of the Kukuriku coalition, whose member you were. Why was that question not solved then, why are you solving it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67620	There are, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67621	You can talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67622	There are important reasons why it couldn't be done. From 2008 to 2016, the Croatian state was practically in a hard recession, and only from 2016 to 2019 came to the level of gross social product from 2008. However, something the Kukuriku coalition has done is also very, very important for additional health insurance, and this is the 2013 transition to the unique price of the additional health insurance policy. I personally got a lot of beatings from the pensioners then, because together with the pensioners we agreed to a single price of 70 kuna, so that it would be long-term sustainable and, as you can see, it is long-term sustainable. Because otherwise there used to be 50 kunas, 80 kunas for unemployed pensioners and 130 for employees, and there can only be one single price. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67623	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67624	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Representative, here we have heard, you have been in politics for a long time. One, two, three, four, five terms, I don't know how many, and this isn't the first time you've suggested as you've said it yourself, this is the third time and you said that without a third, I might add that you might have finally chosen the right side, so we're definitely going to solve this problem together. My question is why this legislative proposal, which is very important for all citizens, especially for Croatian pensioners, did not support pensioners' associations. How do you comment? And you represent them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67625	Thank you. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67626	So retirement associations are civil society associations and have a good time in politics, it's all from a nice, good chair, etc. The problem is when these people imagine that they will deal with politics and then go negotiate for the benefit of the pensioners and resulting in 47 kuna increases. And then it's said that they're social, those ladies that were negotiating, and that I'm just. Well, I'm staying with being fair, because this is an increase of 450 kuna, and let them stay solidarity with 47 kuna, and let the citizens think about who works for whom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67627	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67628	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Hrelja. As I listened to your opening presentation, I remembered Jeremy Bentham, an English philosopher who claimed that one decision is moral when it brings the greatest possible benefit to the greatest number of people. And when we look at it, really for one investment from the 100 million kuna budget, for example, we have a great benefit for a large number, 120 thousand citizens, with better health care, with additional insurance. I don't know, you mentioned that there might be some provocations, so you'll answer that, but I remembered to the Benths because it seems to me that this proposal is just going into such a definition of moral decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67629	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67630	I thank you for this comparison. In fact, when I deal with politics, I'm interested in the policy of results. This is not the most grateful policy and you will not be the most popular among citizens, because whatever you do is not good enough. So, and after this someone will ask why it's not at 2,750 for a single man, why it's not on the poverty line, but fighting for the result, means fighting over and over again, moving the borders over and over again. It's about you, it's in my blood, because I've learned collective bargaining, and collective bargaining you do every year and every year the more you win this year, the more you'll make progress next year because you don't have to win the space you won this year. So the result policy is the only measurable, measurable policy for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67631	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67632	Dear Mr. Hrelja, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Secretary of State, here's Mr. Hrelja and I used to get along, we knew each other and we didn't get along, but I've always respected you. I've reviewed you for two reasons. One because you really are an expert in the area of retirement rights, and the other together we have in common that we always really care about our pensioners. Can you tell us a little bit more in detail how supplementary insurance is regulated in similar states. In which way they regulate these 120,000 citizens who will not only retire in Croatia, but are well retired and are the most vulnerable group because we know that their treatment costs are the largest, they will get the most from all of this, but for, for a little comparison, to see how it is in other countries like us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67633	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67634	Well, every country struggles with this problem and with the costs of the health system in its own, in its own way. We are never as satisfied as we have a public insurance company on, based on solidarity among generations is very strong because there are a million 750 thousand regular payers. And provides us with an additional health insurance policy for EUR 9.5. Our Slovenian neighbours pay, pay EUR 35 per month. They settled it with 4 insurance houses and they have to work hard, their government to limit the profits and 4 insurance houses to 10%. They're terribly unhappy with the cost, covering more than our supplemental health insurance policy, and there's a lot of stuff going on at the insurance houses. So, that's enough. Non-transparent system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67635	You'll have to take over from other countries as a proposing second time, a little later. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67636	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja, with full respect for all the good things you've done during your political career, I must tell you. It is really nice to be the legislator when you know it will be accepted by the parliamentary majority. And I don't doubt that this law brings well-being to Croatian citizens, but these were a number of other proposals by opposition parliamentary deputies, but for them there was no hearing of the parliamentary majority. It is therefore here to conclude that HDZ is not up to the quality of your legal proposals but is up to your support when they need it. So I must remind you that the final effect of the proposed law is the benefit of several hundred kunas on the annual level for Croatian citizens, while at the same time it is a pity of HDZ rule that it can be measured in billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67637	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67638	Look,...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67639	And I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and here you go, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67640	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. counterpart Oreskovic says members of the HDZ Club are, of course, offended by it, responding to the daily policy purposes of helping pensioners. And in 238, poor Croatian pensioners if they depend on the help of Dalia Oreshkovic. We're talking about the Zažela programme, 40,000 pensioners in hard-to-reach areas, this government has provided daily help in the house. This bill of law [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Chicken, time, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67641	Based on Article 239, I give you a warning because it was a replica. Who? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67642	Two things, Article 238, so the first question is, are there more pensioners or more women in the Republic of Croatia? You rejected the opposition's proposal to reduce VAT to hygienic supplies. And the other thing is whether this notice and the violation of the Rules of Procedure was any different from what I did this morning when I was given three warnings in a row in six seconds and the right to speak all over the agenda. So what is the quality of the Croatian Parliament and what is the fear of your parliamentary Most of everything in this Croatian Parliament I have to say. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67643	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oreshkovic. Thank you very much. Uh, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure that's obvious, you know, and it's the same based on Article 239. The secretary of the session tells me it's your fourth precedent, I've come, and three have been days, so I have to take your word from the session. I'm sorry. If I were me, if I were, no, I wouldn't kick you out, you could listen to the others. [[So how'd it go? I'm waiting for a kickout.]] Here you go, Mr. Pavić won't, all right. No comment, you just won't. Mr. Bacic Replic And the answer, the answer, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Wait for a reply to the replica?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67644	Dear colleagues, Oreshkovic, I have long been here, never for these, nor for the previous governments, nor has any opposition bill ever passed before. So it's a rule of conduct here, but not these governments, but since when there's a council in this beautiful one. And that's the rule, and I can live with it, and I can live with it, or I couldn't live with it if I could do something for people who fall out of the census who live in indifference and can do it. And everything I do, I do openly and transparently, unlike some who never said why they did anything. You know why I'm doing this and why I supported the ruling majority in project cooperation. So I can stand before you and I can always explain everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67645	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you, thank you. By having to correct myself because I did not take away Mrs. Oreshkovic's word on the basis of Article 239, but 240 if it is until the end of the debate on this subject. So I'm correcting myself and giving my word to Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague of the Hrelja is all well explained and clear. There is, however, one detail that you would like to explain to me that you might be able to respond to one of these 120,000 pensioners above all who are likely to be covered with this censorship. We have also repeatedly commented that perhaps the average pension in Croatia would be higher if foreign pensions were taken into account. Are the pensions made in Croatia at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute included in this income censorship?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67647	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67648	This income censorship I said no for no reason is the most controlled income censorship otherwise in Croatia. There is therefore a connection between the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Tax Administration. So all that Croatian citizens earn and go through banks and through everything the IRS has insights are excluded or included in incomes in this censorship. So surely there's still room, maybe there's room because there may be two autonomous pensions, there's a thousand kunas here, and from Germany for 15 years, an internship from Germany for 35 years has another pension and it's hard to find out especially if there's an account out there. But it's working on it, and there's really one systematic control here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67649	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We will include 120 thousand persons, most of them pensioners who will have a free health insurance policy. I wonder if you have any information on how many people we have in that number of people who have a pensioner? Because we know that they are, in fact, with the smallest incomes in the Republic of Croatia, that their pensions are far, far below the poverty threshold and that, in fact, in that segment, there really should be some structural measures in the long term to help them because it is sad that someone who has produced food for us today lives on the brink of hunger.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67651	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67652	It is difficult to make these projections as many as 120 thousand potential beneficiaries of agricultural pensioners or those who have a pension from that type of contribution payment. But I'm sure since there's a large number of them with low pensions that if they live alone they're in there or if they live a retirement double with the same two agricultural pensions that they're around here framed in these censorships. So I can say that there's really enough of them, but I can't get into that kind of assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67653	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67654	I'm sure you've thought this through two thousand and two thousand and 500 kuna, and I believe that this analysis has shown that these are the limits that would be satisfactory at this point. But what worries me, and I'm honestly surprised, have you considered that a pensioner who has a pension of 2 thousand 502 kuna that at the end of the year will be 816 kunas poorer than a pensioner who has 2 thousand 499 kuna? Because this guy pays, and this guy doesn't pay for insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67655	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67656	I'd like to produce together a flexible model of coordination, but it really doesn't exist. But since you explicitly said numbers then the one who has 2 thousand 502 kunas will be eventually excluded but no longer than a month, because by the end of November there's a alignment. And I don't think the alignment is going to be less than 2%, and that immediately means that there's going to be another 50 kuna up there that censorship is going to be 2 grand 550 by the end of this year. So it's still moving. There is a mechanism that will be coordinated every year and that is the essence of setting the censors to have, to be in high surgery and to have coordination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67657	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Mrs. Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleague Hrelja Vice President, but my colleague Hrelja won't. [[I'll be right back.]] Can we? ... [[I'll be in touch.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67660	Thank you. Last time I spoke on behalf of the Club about this proposal of yours, and the only thing that was at the time was disputed was that the funds were not secured, and then we thought it was actually justified, which is, of course, justified because it refers to 120,000 of our citizens. But I actually want to remind you of my end of that exhibition when I said knowing Mr. Hrelja this will be very soon again and his tenacity will come again very soon. Well, I congratulate you on your tenacity. Perseverance always pays off, and for some ideals you need to keep your head up tight because some things always go back well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67661	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67662	Thank you. Yes, it's been exactly six months since the discussion and decision to reject the same bill on September 26th. But there's one important difference. I then proposed to coordinate twice a year in line with pension coordination. This is where I accepted the coordination that the government had installed in that law in early 2020, so we have a compromise. But thank you for your perseverance, for complimenting on my tenacity, I really don't miss it, and in some ways I'm proud to sacrifice myself for the benefit of some of our citizens, or those most in need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67663	Thank you, thank you. Mrs. Nada Murganic. Mrs. Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67664	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, of course we often talked about proposals of this kind and you turned my attention and you will support it because you know best what these people's problems are in view of the work I've been doing. Most of our citizens are pensioners with lower pensions. We know that these are older people with several chronic diseases and with several medicines we can say monthly and frequent use of all forms of health care and that will really mean a lot to him. As for the census, unfortunately, he must exist. We're not such a rich country. In the exercise of any rights, there must be a limit somewhere, there must be a limit, so there will always be someone who will fall out of these censorships for several kunas. However, all of this is very positive and certainly welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67665	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67666	I thank you for your replica. The bottom line of this job is to ensure the availability of healthcare for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of their property situation. And the census now came a moment after a long fight between me and my party that we met and that we agreed on a common goal. And I'm happy about it because our citizens should feel as much as they do that we're not helping them, because 840 kunas for some of those who are going to fall in here and get an extra health insurance policy that's half a pension. And at that level of monthly income, that's not small.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67667	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. You don't have any more replicas now. And now I will give my word to Mr Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, to present to us the government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the adoption of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer Silvan Hrelje, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. In its opinion of 21 October, the government submitted two amendments to the proposed text. Amendment 1 is of nomotechnical nature. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final bill was replaced by “1.600.12” by “1.563.23”. In paragraph 2, ‘2.047,20’ is replaced by the following: ‘2.000,00’. It's about the fact that it was in the law. After that, there was harmonisation, that is, according to Article 14b of the applicable Law. Amendment 2. The government is withdrawing and the government also accepts the amendment of the Committee on Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67669	Thank you very much. Now will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic The Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Miro Bulj Club of Representatives of the Bridge. Here you go. Just a minute. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67670	Dear Chairman, here I refer myself to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of you as Head of the session in which you referred to Article 240 of your colleague Oreshković in the name of the 4th notice, and it is therefore impossible to give or collect comments on the points of the agenda. So her warning was given to the previous agenda. She could've just gotten the first warning... Dispute. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67671	Thank you very much, thank you very much. If it's toolerable to actually be a sin, I confess that sin. I should have referred to article 241. "Strengthening away from the session can be said during the debate and decision-making period on one or more points of the agenda or on the day on which he is given a firm step away from the session, i.e. the first article, the representative will be given a strict step away from the session when he acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and his conduct makes it impossible for the work of the Parliament." I think that 4 injuries to the Rules of Procedure are very difficult to make the work of the Assembly possible, and now I have called on, I have called on, which does not include the distance from the session and I admit that I have been mild. So I just took the word out to the end of this point, I was gentle. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67672	Thank you very much. Here's what we're going to need is the chairman's meth in the roll of the saint so we can talk about his grace so we can continue this debate. And as an opposition representative when he was a Hrelja, I was the signator of this proposal, now he's ruling it's this vertical that I can't admit that there must always be some vertical, horizontal, but when he was an opposition, it seems to me that the same secretary of state was, quite the same proposal but another story. The secretary of state, of course, which is a Copernicus turn, will support the issue of pensioners, health insurance, the increase of censorship and this one, who have their family members and those who are single and there is no dispute at all. But I supported this when he was also an opposition signator, and now I'm a signer of this proposal, and that's not a problem for me. But when we talk about pensioners, that's what's mentioned. So the pensioners here in my town Christmas is 400 kuna for the pensioners up to 1,800 kuna, it would tribal to raise meanings to receive and to the unemployed. Unfortunately, it would be much better if we had a much bigger censorship of pensioners, so we don't have this problem, but unfortunately, the situation is what it is. And we're here to support this. Retired population and problem solving are mainly in larger environments, as well as in border areas where people are evicted. And health services and public transport. This is better settled in Zagreb, for example. Traditionally in these parts of the border where I come from, the regions of Zagor, like, Slavonia family are connected, stick to older more, very few people go to nursing homes, but also now this one to homes for older and powerless so that as time goes on we have a bigger and more obvious problem in these areas because young people unfortunately like, unfortunately as statistics and says that 270 000 people have moved out, they are mostly young so on these edges, only Zagreb is growing. So we have a problem in Zagreb, but it's much more visible in Lica, I don't know in Zagora, Slavonia, Gorski Kotar. It is much more visible because in these border areas if you do not have organised public transport and you do not have young people, you do not have a vehicle, then we have to do everything and there is an EU directive so that you, where you can run across counties that should organise non-erable lines for public service transport, and these end up being the only way in which those older ones can feel the meaning of that assistance. So we must, along with this insurance that is increased and the triba is welcomed, we must ensure everything, and we also have European resources, we also have EU directives, we must ensure public transport in non-performable lines because simply there is a private, entrepreneur or weaker local self-government who simply cannot fiscally support it, can not follow this one they will naturally have to organise public transport. So this is one wider layer. Here we have a palette of problems that are partially and quickly solved. There's both responsibility and local self-government, regardless of what I am now head of local self-government, same great responsibility. Here I will specify an example of certain villages in Podkameshnica, in, in, under Kameshnica or Dinara where we as a local self-government have to organise this public transport daily so that people can get to, due to health services mainly because of the problems they have. I hope this proposal isn't just about some kind of political trade. And I'm sorry, I'm going to say one more time what the ministry had a different opinion when Mr. Hrelja was proposing this bill of opposition, and now that the government has a completely different opinion. What's changed? Here, I'm interested in State Secretary. Tell the Croatian regiment what's changed? Here's a co-worker she might know, which changed when the Hrelja was in opposition and now, here's Minister Pavić, I think a fellow representative or colleague of Stier. What passed when Mr. Hrelja made the same proposal, I personally signed him, a co-signator, when he was in opposition and now he's in the majority. It was correct for the executive authority to show. And otherwise, in perception of important and good laws that do not accept most or rule, a mantra has appeared for local elections, it is common. If you are not vertical, then if you are not in the power of HDZ in Zagreb is in power, in the county then do not vote for someone else. Which means that I would suggest that you cancel at all or when the SDP is irrelevant, or MOST irrelevant, who gets the state parliament elections to appoint commissioners at local level, because they say they won't give you funds. It's like some kind of mantra here, let's say it was my anti-candidate head, right now he's on the sidelines. He was at the annual, locked the door and as a headmaster and went away, the key head of the city of Sinja. So I don't think that mantra is good. Every proposal most of you will support, I have signed it. You can check the proposal and there's no problem with me signing another document. So once again, here's the thing, of course, that I will support this proposal. Once again, I would like to know why one opinion was taken while the motionor was in opposition by the so-called The Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is why now that he has arrived in a flock of elected promoters, which is why he now has a second opinion. Here's what I was curious about. What's changed? What? Turn it on and let me hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67673	Please, please, you'll get whoever you want. Only Mr. Bull has the right to speak No, no, don't let go. [[I'd like to leave Mrs. Murganic to her.]] You have no right to leave. Or if you have no more themes you can stay Then move on. [[I've got three minutes left.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67674	I have to be in Sinj tonight. I'm in no hurry, you'll be in Zagreb and no driver, and I'm a local leader. What am I going to do? I have to do it myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67675	Don't, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67676	Here's Mr. Pavic, you might say. So I would allow us to communicate like this, but I think it would be my turn to give a reply to the representatives of the Croatian government, that he responds to what has changed. It's the same proposal from A to J. When he was in opposition, it was thought that you wouldn't accept what happened. I mean, that's the same thing when I ask you what an older egg or a chicken is, now we can talk, but this is simple. It wasn't so long ago that Mr. Hill was in opposition, I remember. And today a completely different opinion when it's in the chosen flock. That's not a good message. That part's not good. That part's not good for me, I don't like it. Everyone chooses their own political path. All of us have been chosen by the people. But I don't think we're sending a good message about politics this way. Why? Because the people ultimately choose. I know you need to get to the finish line. Mr. Hrelja led himself to the goal. But getting to the goal of the people must have chosen, it seems to me that my colleague was on the SDP list, I think. Because he's in a coalition with the SDP, right? And now change completely and that's the question. But mostly this proposal I support. Thank you very much. And I expect answers from you here that will change your mind. Would you like to speak to the Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67677	Yeah, later in the hallway. Mr. Michel Jaksic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues, fellow MPs. On behalf of the SDP club, I must say that we will support the proposal of colleagues of the Hrelja MPs. We've been working well with him all this time. Finally, the man was also on our list for the Parliament. As for the first time and the second time, we will support his legal proposal. What naturally saddens us and shows how this works in the Republic of Croatia, that when we collected signatures for the same proposal seven months ago it was said that it was unrealistic, that it was not good, that it could not come to the agenda. Now by overcoming the ruling majority it is on the agenda in emergency reading and thank God it will be carried out... That's why my colleague Hrelja congratulated me on that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What each of us should ask as a question, given that all of us here have been elected by the citizens of this country, whether this is indeed the parliamentary democracy we want to live in, what we want to develop, and whether this is the kind of democracy that can bring us in some future times not only new democratic steps but also new life steps as well as the young people who have chosen us here, and also the pensioners to whom we owe a lot of things. Because today's message as good as this is a good subject and as much as it is at the end of the success for a colleague of the Temple and the retirement population to say that it is important to be part of the ruling majority and then each of your proposals can pass through the filter and be declared a quality and good enough to enter the Croatian Parliament. Until then, you're either against the state or you're destroying power or you're a communist or you're an anarchist or you're an extreme right-handed man so I don't get all the qualifications you can get right now. But it is certain that none of your suggestions will pass those filters and will enter the drum to discuss it and have any chance of its adoption. Our pensioners, whom I have already mentioned, have been giving up and building this country for years and society is simply worth this, because today we have many, too many pensioners below that standard that is normal for a normal and quality life. We all know that very well. We know what the average pension is. We know everything that's been happening to us in all these decades with our pension funds and that it's simply not done enough for these people in that last phase of their life path to make a quality and adequate life possible. And they simply either turn to come under the old days which can be a very depressing and psychotic situation for those people on the burden of their children, though it is human. Or simply if they don't have anyone to fall fat under that poverty threshold, and we have a lot of such local cases where we have a chance to see how difficult these people are after their wartime careers, after years of giving up, after the years they've been building families living in. Let this be this one little step to start bringing back the pensioners' pride. But it's really a small step. Because so long as we have tens of thousands of pensioners below the poverty threshold, we won't be able to say that we did something. So long as they will not be able to receive adequate health care, and we have had the opportunity to see it before the crown, and mainly in the crown, for so long we will not be able to say that we have succeeded and that we have allowed these people a quality and adequate life. But also, as long as we can't give them adequate care, we won't be able to tell them that we're paying back the debt we have to them as a society. It can sometimes be seen from this House, a colleague of Hrelja knows very well how much we have in our County and county centres of problems with capacities and places in institutional forms of retirement homes, for old and powerless. Little is under the care of the state and county, much has been transferred to privates, and more is unfortunately transferred to some really profound circumstances, you had a near Koprivnica, in our area and a breakthrough of Corona, so you just found out that there was supposed to be 20 people there, and there were 50, so I'm not quoting everything that happened in that case. And there will also need a much stronger impulse of the state and a much stronger indicator that we really do keep up with our pensioners. Also, each of us can ask ourselves if we can expect something very much to talk about, which has already gone into circulation in the European Union long before we do, which is installing elevators into residential buildings. We have in Croatia many more residential buildings on several floors, where we have no elevators, and apparently European money stands, because we ourselves are unable to form, organise and withdraw European funds for these elevators. Well, it's also one of the measures that would mean a lot to our pensioners. And lastly, I just want to say, we're going to support this, but we hope that what we're discussing today and what's going to be at the vote isn't going to go in a way that we're now correcting historical injustices against the pensioners, who deserve to be corrected, in a way that we're going to take someone else, young people. Because these days he was released, whether by chance, whether or not someone deliberately released spin to see the reaction or is already ready and only a little bit warms the public that everyone who thinks is shooting, some first initial draft of health reforms, reforms of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, where, if it's going to be true, we don't know which way our health is going to go, and that's also going to break at the end on pensioners, as we don't even know what demographic policy we're going to have, if no one in that document is clear on which way and on the burden that pregnant women will go to start sick, saving their pregnancy and afterwards on maternity leave. So whether it's a demographic measure and whether we're taking enough care of that simply in something that we want to solve right now, we're going to solve, somewhere else, there's enough funding going on, because then we didn't do anything. I congratulate my colleague Hrelj on the goal achieved, I am sorry to say that you had to go to the ruling majority, we will vote for this law, otherwise it matches the budget rebalance, the budget, so we can tell you right now that in the years to come we will always support you before the rebalancing and the budget in all new ones that you will succeed in operating for the pensioners, when it is not already possible from the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67679	Thank you. Mrs Majda Buric will present the positions of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67680	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Proposer Mr. Hrelja, the Honorable Secretary of State Dulibic, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. As I said before, this Law has only two articles, but very important and important. Why? Because the aim of this Law is to increase the social security of our citizens who have fewer and health care especially sensitive groups of insurance companies. It is therefore a policy of supplementary health insurance that goes to the burden of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and which are free of charge for the users themselves. At first, it should be pointed out that these are not only pensioners, or pensioners, but are also pensioners. When we look at the analysis of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the analysis of the number of additional health insurance policies on the burden of the State budget, then we see that in the total number of active policies on the burden of the state budget in 2018, the number of pensioners was 28%, in the 19th year 30%, and in the 20th year 31%. Therefore, the proposed changes include all categories of insurance, all age groups, more specifically, not just pensioners. The latest data suggests that in 2020 we had about 290,000 active policies on the burden of the State budget. Therefore, this Law also proposes raising the income price, i.e. total monthly income from 1563 kuna to 2000 kuna, while it proposes to increase the censorship from 2000 kuna to 2500 kuna per month, and this is a very significant increase. This will include around 120,000 new users, and the assumption is that the number of policies on the burden of the State budget will be about 400 thousand in total. The means to ensure the implementation of this Law are, as has already been said, about 100 million kuna a year. When it comes to income censorship, it should be pointed out in particular that it has not been increased since 2008 until May 2020, when it is indeed done, and now that this increase is going to be even more significant and more significant, which I certainly welcome. What is good is that the legal changes of 2020 are prescribed that the said censorship is indexed, or harmonised, until then. And this is indexed by the change in the average consumer price index and changes in the average gross salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia, which stopped the trend in reducing the number of policies on the burden of the State budget. Given that in a broader context we are talking about ensuring social security, solidarity, I think it is worth mentioning that in the past period this government has paid off and so on. Covid supplement of up to 1,200 kuna for all pensioners who have a pension of less than 4,000 kuna. And that so-called. Covid's supplement did not enter the profit census, so neither did anyone lose any free extra insurance due to the payment of Covid's allowance, nor will it be because of the exception of that decision. This decision-making is excluded from the income censorship. The government has also introduced a new institute. The Institute of National Pensions, more specifically national benefits for elderly people, over 65 years of age, at an amount of 800 kuna per month for persons who do not have minimum conditions for obtaining pensions, pensions, which is 65 years of life and a minimum of 15 years of internship. All pensions in the term of the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ, as I have already stated today, have increased by 18% by a million and 237 thousand pensioners. And for pensioners who receive the lowest pension, they grew by more than 23% will continue to grow. Systemic assistance to older people through the project Zaželi, I think it should be particularly stressed, so help and support for our elderly and powerless, may I continue vice presidents a little distract me from this side, someone's throwing me away so please intervene. Thank you. So, uh... Thank you, thank you. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So, I am proud of the project Zažela, a project that helps our elderly and powerless, is 79,000 which costs local self-government and users zero kuna because the funds are provided through the European Social Fund, which is extremely important for people at risk of social exclusion. As far as poverty itself is concerned, I stress that the risk of poverty is decreasing, but as low as it is, it will never be low enough because as long as there is one poor person and that is too much. At 20% of the risk of poverty fell to 18% in 2020, and it generally increased precisely in age groups of older age, especially in single, single households, especially in women with low education. I agree that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the adoption of this legislative proposal by emergency procedure because we are talking about the protection of particularly sensitive groups of insurance companies, of greater social security and of solidarity with our citizens who have fewer. I also believe that social solidarity, social protection and raising the level of social security of our citizens who have less and less importance and that we must continuously improve it in line with our opportunities. In any case, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this law or the Proposal for a Law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67681	Vice-President Sabina Vosovac has been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67682	Mr. Vice President Buric injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because in 90% of its debate, she did not speak at all about the subject but listed and read some promotional pamphlets of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, it also injured the item of demeaning and insulting the president or other MPs. In particular, she insulted her colleague Krela because they show that the same law means what colleague Hrelja proposed seven months ago here, who was rejected with disgust now they accept it only because their colleague Hrelja then spoke out of position [[Thank you very much.]] opposition MP, and today he supported the majority [[Thank you very much.]] or not today, but before a few.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: No more.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67683	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully, because in one part not 90% like you said, I was just going to listen very carefully when you picked up the bat from the next, my colleague Buric was talking about this law. So let's take 50%, to intervene with such reports now, I won't give you any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or Mrs. Buric in this case. Mrs. Buric was also talking about this law, and you picked up the bat when it wasn't exactly the case. Mr. Pavic, probably the same thing, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67684	The Honorable Chairman, so the point is that Article 238, the colleague did not talk about the subject, you did not respond. After we picked up the bat, you started listening, but before that, six minutes ago, it wasn't about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67685	No, no, ma'am, Mrs. Buric spoke all together for six minutes, all together... All right, let's move on, come on, everybody's said their opinions and we're moving on. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Mr. Pavić and you will say the same opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67686	Thank you very much. Article 238, insult fellow Buric I know that it offends you that 79,000 older citizens in Croatia have Support Wish, but do it this way [[Intruder: Mr. Pavić.]] I'm really sorry. [[I have to give it to you, I have to.../]] Because it's 120,000 pensioners. [[I have to give you, I have to give you...]] and got this bill and 79,000 has a favor. [[Intruder: Mr. Pavić, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67687	Please, I have to give you this one, I have to give you this warning. This is the third warning and you know what follows after the third warning, taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject normally. Mrs. Glasovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Glasovac. Pavic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67688	The Honorable Chairman, this is an insult to the MPs. How does MP Pavić Marko know what's insulting us? We are not offended at all by the need to help the pensioners, it offends us that we are not talking about the subject, and they assure us that we are talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67689	You have a warning, Mr. Pavić, you know that. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67690	Article 238 makes me feel offended, but what is soundly reasonable is that you have refused the same text of the Law seven months ago, just because you... It doesn't have to, when I'm done, read the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67691	Thank you very much. Thank you, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67692	No, thank you very much. You've taken my time. So seven months ago, the law was rejected because it was proposed by an opposition representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67693	It's a replica, but it's a replica, it's a replica. You have a warning. First warning, let's move on. [[Sabina Voter:... and now support, so it is an insult to common sense.]] ... second warning, you have two warnings. Mr Davorko Vidovic will speak in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Please, let's not play with that, I mean. So we're always playing with the Rules of Procedure, what for? All warnings are for the Rules of Procedure. It works in 238, I'm sorry, it doesn't work in the Rules of Procedure, normally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. About a year and a half ago, perhaps a little bit shorter, a colleague of Hrelja and I agreed on a pre-election programme ahead of last year's elections, in which, as one of the most important things for our poor citizens, our pensioners suggested exactly what we have today on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament. As he did in his constituency, so did I in mine when we came to the opportunity to act in power, or if we are not in a position, as an opposition, we will be obliged to raise our poorest citizens a census at last, not for 46 kuna, but for this amount now proposed in this Act, to ensure, here is what our colleague Hrelja calculated, a hundred or 112 million kuna in the pocket of our pensioners, mostly pensioners, but also other poor citizens. So, I promised it, we promised all of us who were in the election, on this side, in this group and imagine now that I would come and say here I won't vote for it. I won't vote, I won't vote for something that the defector, the traitor, went to the other side, let down his voters, he suggests that I vote for it. Well, you see, gentlemen and colleagues, I'm a little older, so then I'll allow myself, perhaps a little bit of this touchy tone. If we were to be guided by such logic, then, and that's the majority logic and the majority way of thinking in this House, we would never get anything useful for our citizens. I can't and I haven't changed, nor when it comes to the law proposed by my colleague Hrelja, whom I all hail and we will vote for him. But I'm asking you on this example, something has been done to keep in mind some other laws. In fact, there has been a great humiliation of all of us here, and you in the position of both the opposition and the secretary of state who is not there, and the government, it is humiliating actually, that something like this could be realized, that people, I saw at the meeting of the Committee of Mr. Dulabic, as he interpreted why this Law should be accepted, and who humbled and modestly acknowledged what I was saying a few months ago was wrong. He had to follow and prove exactly the opposite of what he was saying just a year ago. And you've been put into a situation, colleagues, that you're actually humiliated that way, and that this proposal only has value because it's proposed by a majority member, and we don't listen to each other. I'll admit something to you and self-critic. After this pay phone, about 20 years ago, I was ashamed, only later, not while I was here, defending the Law, I think about employment, etc., when I received an amendment from the opposition as minister. I think Mrs. Kosor Jadranka suggested it. Which among the 50, 60 amendments they prepared for me, I refused. Because opposition proposals are being rejected. Until I actually realized what I refused, I refused an amendment that improved the law, and I remember exactly what it was about. It was about not obliging pregnant women to take a job more than 70 kilometers from their place of residence. Why did I say no? Because of this practice that applies in this House, and instead of keeping in mind the constant well-being of the people we have been chosen here, we have allowed ourselves to be divided into most, we do not listen. We're not listening. And it doesn't matter what they say anymore, it's only about who's talking, and it's not a productive way to get to the best solutions for our citizens. So, when it comes to this bill of ours with which the colleague of Hrelja came out, I think he will get general support, I think that really as a country that intends and wants to demonstrate and demonstrate its and social sensitivity that it is the best unpaid money, the best deficit that can be suffered by state finances because it is taken really by those who have the least. In fact, it also shows the meaning of what the state should do, which is to be supportive and to be in some way reliant on people who, for various reasons, are in a state of social or some other threat. I wish in other laws that have that kind of effect we could talk consensually, that we would be less offended, that we would listen more and trust no one would drop a hat off their heads. The government would not be less convincing or weak if it accepted an opposition conclusion. No, that would be proof of strength. It would be evidence of seriousness if we were able to listen and look for the best solutions no matter who they came from. Here's an excuse that maybe I missed a little subject inspired by this law, too, and I needed to say this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67696	No, no, you didn't miss the subject. Otherwise, he'd intervene. It's the only thing that's been going on for 30 years now is the whole thing, no matter who's in power. Mr. Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67697	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would now look back after the club representatives and say the following. Yes, I confirm what my colleague Michelle said this is a drop in the sea of all pensioners' problems. But let's not just, I'm not here, I am a representative of the pensioners but not just for the pensioners, but for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and there are poor people outside the structure of the pensioners. So the law is for all citizens who have incomes less than these censors. Yeah, yeah, that fellow Michelle, that elevators are an important thing. They are also available for the care of elderly infirm persons with disabilities. Yeah, let's all go together when we invite colleague Vidovic to... let's push everyone together and HDZ. I mean, look, I've been pushing this for a long time. The question of elevators, the price of signatures, the tenants were giving. Let's break through, let's see a concrete answer if that's possible, but if it's necessary, it's necessary hard. And the answer to why like this, why in this way. But forgive me, neither I, who am 63 years old, nor those to whom this most applies, could I wait until the time when the team with whom I came to Parliament this time would adopt power. No, the pensioners definitely don't have time to wait. I might even be able to be patient and play with the forgiveness of a man who tells stories nicely and proposes good laws and has nothing to do with it. Which is worth the canary singing nicely, but the CDs didn't. Yes, my colleague Majda said this is a really significant increase. Yes, it rarely occurs when an increase in some protection or income is 25 to 27%. And fellow Vidovic is not just about increasing the censorship. We have also been responsible for preserving the price of a 70 kuna policy, and I will finally say that my greatest wish is that this public insurance company, which is conceived on the basis of solidarity between generations, the solidarity of the healthy and the sick, become an independent public non-profit insurance company or institution. That's possible. That's what we missed in our mandate because the proposal was on the table. So I have nothing to say to fairy tales or to lie. I'm telling you how it was. So, if it had to be different, it would have to be. But from 2011 to 2015, not that we have not accepted any proposal or conclusion of the HDZ, nor are we the Croatian Labour Labour Labrists who are much closer to us than we are to the world-controlled. So, that's the thing. I don't want to be any longer. So as far as this law goes first, there's an increase in censorship. It's going to be censorships that will last the least because the coordination that's coming next next month will increase them so that I'm glad, I'm not going to say that they both fell, but we both got it. We got an increase in census and we got a synchronization. If it were different, it wouldn't have been possible for these censors to have killed the alignment. So this is an important part, but a small part of the project cooperation that I have agreed with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and supported the government. After the adoption of this Act, intensive work is taking place to address the problem of family pensions. Welcome to all your suggestions and remarks. And no less important. Local self-government units have paid 50% of their pensioners the 50% price of a supplemental health insurance policy. Now they too will have a smaller burden because they will not have so many pensioners within. So they're units of local self-government are on the gain. I know it was Poreč, I know it was Opatija. I think some stronger municipalities, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67698	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67699	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67700	Stay, stay. Mrs. Petyr's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've touched the elevators. I'd just like to remind the truth of working without giving it to anyone. Therefore, in order for something to be financed from the European Union programme, this must be programmed. 2013 was not programmed, not included. This was not envisaged in the programming period from 2013 to 2020 and could therefore not be financed from this operational programme. As far as I know, there is a dialogue with the competent ministry and stakeholders, to find an item for the next programming period, i.e. an activity through which such assistance to our citizens could actually be financed. So the only thing is that those who object today were then in power didn't program it. And I don't think we should talk that way that we're constantly fighting politically, but we should talk about useful things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67702	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67703	Look, I'm here to tell the truth. The problem and the possibility arose after our coalition government could even imagine that it would exist as a possibility. The possibility was discovered there in 2016, 2017. Of course it wasn't programmed, of course it wasn't planned. We then forced something to be done in the reprogramme, reclassifying the funds. It hasn't been done much. Now there is, we are now on the verge of getting an answer whether this project will be able to be financed on its own or not, or whether it will continue to be just a horizontal measure for the restoration of facades, i.e. for the energy efficiency of buildings. I hope we finally break through that one special thread that it's possible to finance only the installation of the elevator.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67704	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67705	Dear Representative, here I congratulate you and thank you for having been able to present a part of our programme in the right way and for having decided that most of the proposal accept what I hope will be in future practice that everything that is good, what we had in our program and what we are trying to present here will be accepted either through you or through us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67706	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67707	I'll answer you with a Chinese proverb doesn't matter what color cats are, but it's important that mice hunt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67708	Mr. Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67709	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja, here we were members of the same club, friends, friends we stayed today. We talked a lot about this before you even made this move. Then I supported you in your intention not because you would benefit personally but because you would benefit many pensioners, left, right, center, ultra left, ultra right, means for all pensioners of the Republic of Croatia. And even though some people have seen it as maybe a political trade, I didn't realize it then, I don't understand it today either. You still have my support today if everything is to be realised as agreed. So all pensioners will benefit and I think we should all support a proposal where everyone will benefit. So maybe it's the first law where most of us agree that someone like you has made a good move for the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67710	Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67711	Yes, thank you for your support. I just have to say, there's no such thing as a wide-ranging move for all pensioners anymore. There are certain structures, these are the poorest from the health system and the availability of health care. And what we're going to do in retirement concerns still a large number of people. It's a circus of 220,000 family pensions. So it's not all of them, but they're also the ones who are the most threatened and whose pensions are, therefore, due to the family payment, because of the pension payment by their spouses, the most hurtful, and that's what we want to make right. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67712	Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67713	My colleague Hrelj, I appreciate you. I supported this law as well as my colleagues, and seven months ago, I support today, but I don't congratulate you. I don't congratulate you because I don't think you should have agreed to this game. You said the pensioners waited too long. They did. And why were they waiting? Because you were an opposition representative. And today they're not waiting anymore. Why aren't they waiting? Because Andrew Plenkovic cares about the pensioner? Not because he cares about your hand. And that's why I think this is the wrong way, that you should not agree to such a game, because by accepting your hand, he will accept a good reason, but blackmailing you will require a good law. By blackmailing you, he asks you to support a number of other government actions. It's a game we're not supposed to be in favor of. That's the problem, not the content of your law, it never was. But in the game and the rules set by this government and where it conditiones some things by supporting the majority. Some call it some ugly names, I won't, I'll refrain but I've said everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67714	Thank you, colleague Voter, we get it. Here you go. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67715	Thank you. Regardless of what you will not justify or congratulate us, we will remain friends and discuss all possible problems affecting Croatian citizens. I just want to say that I could stand and talk nice and do nothing, and people don't have time to wait. Of course, when we were in power, it was the same story. We didn't have that kind of grip, there were four of us in our coalition. We had a lot of space, we didn't solve enough things. Whether we couldn't or didn't have the courage. I don't want to deal with the time it's been, but the fact is that we could do more. And Mr. Plenkovic can understand more. There's always more to it. This is the model I want to solve the problem on. And you and I will continue to talk as honestly and honestly as we have so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67716	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67717	Well, I'd just like to say a respected colleague, so let's not fool ourselves about this is an example of political trade. Political trade is always explained by people who jump from one side to the other with some benefit for a certain group of people. So you didn't want to support this government earlier, but here you are going to support it now because it's going to bring some kind of benefit to some group of citizens. And there's always some kind of well-being that political trade explains. We had an example of the Penal Code that didn't want to accept even though the SDP suggested, we now have an example of yours that they didn't accept just because there was a difference from a meter and a half, you were sitting on this side, now you're sitting on the other side. Here's why you think you didn't accept when you were sitting here on this side why the law wasn't passed even though you haven't changed a single sentence in that law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67718	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67719	No, it's been changed, one part of the text has been changed, I've accepted the alignment of the government that already existed in the law. This was resolved differently in a proposal that we discussed just over seven months ago. I can only tell you that you can interpret certain moves, political moves in this home in the way you want, but I just want to tell you that I play open cards here and here. Whoever doesn't believe check it out, and who believes I'm glad he trusts me. I've been here 18 years and I've been through all sorts of situations here. I also know that one number of our colleagues has never explained to the public why he made a move. The press got the same day I signed an agreement with the Prime Minister. Papers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67720	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, it would be good to have more political dialogue if constructive proposals were accepted no matter what side they came from. The fact that I was also an opposition representative, I remember the amendments that were then commended on the board and were later rejected. And that's a fact. We want to change that fact I think it would be good, but that's how it is right now and let's not be Pharisees if we want to change it we have to act a little differently. What if you were, for example. Voted against the government's opinion immediately even from the opposition would say they are going to tear down the government, there are dissidents and such situations. So the whole society not only must change the way political parties behave if we want to reach that degree of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67722	Now you've touched a bit of a wider subject I see. Here you go, Mr. Hrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67723	Yeah, this is a broader topic, and I'm sure everyone here would agree that we should do something different. To achieve this differently, it would certainly take a lot more conversation and a lot more respect, and a lot less ego than I am right. Until then, since I have decided in some way that this is my political career, I want some things that I've been struggling with all these years, and I want to solve, not for myself, but for people who deserve it, whose incomes are either unscathed or low, or they haven't, in any way, avoided this problem so far, to solve these problems. I'll keep it up and I'll talk about it in front of you here with a clean cheek and with a lot of, a lot of passion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67724	Thank you, no more, no more replicas, which psychologist I have to say a little less ego, a little more super, check it out. Mr. Miro Bulj now has his own debate, where he is, and there you are, go ahead. That, there, it says, it writes, there you go. You didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67725	Thank you very much. As I said on behalf of the club, I will repeat that the pensioners in Croatia are of course a socially endangered group of most and such a proposal that I signed while Mr. Hrelja was an opposition and I signed him now while he was, is now the majority. This initiative is truly noble to me, the very proposal that we will be able to support because there is no reason to ask myself whether the government's opinion has been changed in such a short time and cannot be answered by the Secretary of State. What happened to your opinion? Not only does he answer but he's not here, he'll answer one day. And that's why we have most of them here, and that's when most of the replicas were being defended here, here's the minister of the former, the representative Murganic, here's the fellow and colleagues at the time, defending thoroughly that it's not yet time for that, that it's not snow yet, so, and there's no hand missing then, probably, and that's the key question. Suggestion yes, I signed it and then and now. And I wonder if there's an answer that, what happened. Does anyone have one superfluous answer, short, here, and the triba he'll be long. Here's what happened to the same proposal from A to Z... and point comma, I accept it, and I signed it then as co-proposer.../incomprehensible/... I have no idea. Which is why a few days ago it was unacceptable for most of us and you defended it here it was a fight to the pain. And now once empathy towards the pensioners. Now you're asking a question. Was there a missing hand in the Parliament, and is that a good message? I don't have any problem supporting this, regardless of what Mr. Silvano Hrelja is now in the majority, but I'm interested in the government's opinion. Minister you when you were and this proposal was, Mrs Murganic you were then a colleague you were and you said that this was not the best proposal, that something new should be inserted, that it was not in accordance with the laws of the European Union i.e. Directives of the European Union. And that was I think now to go back to the session and throw parallel to this Mr. Hrelja, a colleague and what I think would be a circus, and the pensioners are the same, only someone who died. So nothing has changed in Croatia except that it has collected oil, flour, onions, onion, it is at least domestic but Chinese it is the law... So I repeat once again that it is very important for the pensioners to pass these laws. [[You don't understand.]] Local self-government can also be very helpful, mainly in underdeveloped areas. As I said, the biggest problem of undeveloped rural areas is that we have no organised public transport. I mentioned this either Gorski Kotar, or Slavonia, or my Zagora, like these areas do not have organised public transport, and we see that 270 thousand people have moved out of Croatia in the last 10 years. It is 5%, and the only increase, the only increase in Zagreb is rapid. We still have in some parts of Croatia growth, but in these edges the young have gone, the old have stayed and, of course, they are inert lines. And there's mostly old people here, and if we're local and that's what we're talking about. We have even passed a law where these lines of the county line can be co-financed in an inert way. It's going to be hard for some private contractor who's engaged in transporting that line without subsidizing in some other way. So we need to think about the pensioners who were left in a traditional place where they didn't even have nursing homes, homes for the old and the powerless. So these are the areas of the edge where little who comes. Sisak-Moslavina County are border areas where health services are not the same as in Zagreb. There's a problem in Zagreb, too. With mine... where I live under the silk to Sinj isn't that far, it's 15 kilometers away. But if there is no organised public transport and the young have gone unfortunately we should work to return, if there is no transport he does not have a health service. Because it's gonna be hard for someone to transfer it and these people in their infirmities, in the disorganization of the state, in local self-government, so I'm... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67726	Time. ♪ Mr. Bull time ♪ Mr. Pavic, as you can see, I'm letting other things be talked about, though, right, not only narrowly, so I'm not making a difference between this side and this side. [[Intruder Bull: Thank you.]] Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac, that replica. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67727	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, we have the same problem in Zadar County. So a large number of lines are not financially profitable and therefore these lines are not organised. And our poor people from the edges of the county most talk about that personal part of Gracac, because somehow on the islands it's a different situation, they have to manipulate the terrible costs of some cabs that aren't regulated. This country is not trying to bring order into any of the simple things that should be. Do you have any suggestions that we could support so that it goes to the government, and then we can get rid of it. Here, we'll ask Silvan to help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67728	Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67729	Hear your prayer. Yeah, that problem's visible. I didn't say anything new. He's been spotted. However, I when I became mayor that problem I knew before, but now I have reacted in this way that area is really not regulated. However, we have EU funding under European directives, we have certain funds that are decentralised towards the counties that line up, that is to finance or co-finance non-refundable lines. So these are lines that aren't rentable where the entrepreneur doesn't have a right, and I'm like the local now head of that line funded. One van he's enough to transport 2, 3 students, very few students, plus to use the locals as well. That's why we all have to, this isn't just a matter of state, but we have to use these funds to decentralize non-resistable lines, and that's the same problem in the Zadar hinterland, Sinjski and Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67730	Thank you very much. Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac is now having a debate. Let's hope we get back to basic law now, shall we? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67731	Honorable Vice President, distinguished Proposer, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this is this supplemental insurance price that will apply to 120,000 of our citizens and not to any citizens, but to citizens who are really financially threatened, and I think it's one really commendable initiative, and that's a good thing and I'm glad that it will support it. Silvano Hrelja said that he had referred this law to the procedure four times by having a three-time debate. This is the third time and how you said the third time. And this law will cost the Republic of Croatia's budget about 100 million kuna. According to the number of citizens it affects, it doesn't seem to me like it's some kind of overpriced price. Because in previous debates, this is exactly what we constantly receive from a high price, too much cost, the state can't handle it. About 600,000 pensioners live below the poverty threshold. And certainly these 840 kunas on the annual level are not insignificant amounts of money. You're boasting that we've reduced the poverty rate from 20% to 18%, and it really seems like a hell of a lot to me. I'm working on my own psychiatry, and unfortunately our patients, if they're solid property situations, eventually this changes because of the level of their illness. What bothers me, so in all this message we send to our citizens if the law with almost the same contents that I personally think I even signed and voted for and everything that was going on seven months ago doesn't go through, and all of a sudden now we have the right-hand side that I like, it's very nice to listen to you while you say it's good, as it's positive, we have one big support. And then we're surprised by sending these messages to our citizens that the Parliament has so we're not rated when citizens judge us on the scales. However, I will certainly vote for this, this is good, and it will help 120,000 citizens, reducing their annual cost of 840 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67732	Thank you, too. Wait, wait, you have replicas. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67733	Dear MPs, here we have heard before Mr. Hrelja has already worked this bill with our colleague Davorko Vidovic when they were working on our coalition program. And he was on the agenda seven months ago. However, there were so many arguments by the majority against the law, that eventually the law was rejected. Today, seven months later, we see praises, praises for that law. I would ask you, given that this is your portfolio to help me with what conditions have changed in those seven months, which we have changed, which these directives have meanwhile been implemented in our laws that this law is now good and seven months ago was not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67734	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67735	Thank you, colleague Pavic. In principle, nothing has changed nor the law, nor the directive. The Committee's objection was the biggest financial cost. Now, unfortunately, I don't remember what number it was. You remember? Here's what they're going to tell us. The Temple will answer that. And that was, therefore, the biggest reason why it was being rejected. The state simply cannot bear the cost at this point and it has been discussed nicely and then the committee was not uglyly discussing the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67736	Thank you. I'm the promoter of the Temple will replicate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67737	So at that time, there was a large cost, since the estimated value was 150 million kuna. But later on, the question of paying the covid supplement, and everything else, is sort of reducing this cost figure because we don't know in the social sphere how many people live in a joint household, as much as we don't. If we're reading pure statistics, then it's much scarier than it actually is that you could accurately calculate the cost. The second thing I wanted to replicate was the question why the Parliament was misjudged, whether because of the lack of results. This is the way to the score or it's misjudged because of our egos where we prove who's prettier and smarter. And my colleague Pavić misunderstood, not Davorko and I wrote this law, but we wrote pre-election messages for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67738	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67739	Yeah, so now we're reopening a new topic that makes us so badly rated. Well, it seems to me personally that it's complicated, that it's one of the combinations, that citizens have an awful lot of expectations for us, that we're not doing the work that they want us to do. They want, each group has its own problems. So not all groups of citizens are in equal trouble. And of course, the most aggressive, the strongest and the most persistent always somehow manage to present their problem. And most people will retreat and find themselves in their troubled silence alone, left behind, forgotten, old, tired, sick, and unfortunately, many people stop at what they want to do. Yes, we are here to meet the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67740	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67741	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. It's really small and ugly in this late hour to listen to the way a respected representative wants to call Hrelja for some kind of political trade, for some kind of inconsistency. I don't think it's fair to him as a man who has devoted his whole life to a group of Croatian citizens, these are Croatian pensioners. And indeed, 120,000 of them will have benefits from this, and we here want to show this man some kind of a traitor. He would've been if he'd changed his mind, so that he'd sold himself politically to play those people, but he came here to support this technically, to help people. And instead of taking off his hat and saying it's the way to go we want to portray him as some kind of political trader. I don't think that's correct. You do politics, you know it's not a political trade, but we do want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67742	I appreciate the question. Well, nowhere did I feel like I said this was a political trade. I don't really remember saying that, I said something else. But then I'll look back at how the government of the Republic of Croatia said 150 million seven months ago, and now it's 100 million kuna. I mean, the difference between those 50 million kunas isn't so big that it might not have happened in that moment. Look, I think this is a great law, and I'm glad we're all gonna back it up. It's somewhere the taste of my discussion and that's what I really wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67743	And finally, Mr. Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67744	Thank you very much, dear fellow Saberar. In your individual debate, you have therefore talked less about the law here, so more about changing some views within a year, so that this is the same reason why citizens have less confidence in this institution, that is to say, that they are underestimating the work of the Parliament in the finality of parliamentary deputies. But it is very similar to you when you, therefore, entered the Social Democratic Party in parliamentary elections, and then after a year changed your mind and left the club. You know it's in the same domain as when it changes, so the position of the ruling in relation to the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67745	It was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67746	I thank you for asking. So I didn't get out of the SDP. I regularly in all elections internally within my county achieved relatively good results within the party elections, with locals better than my colleagues now but not quite noticeable. So, first I was removed from the president of the county organization. First, the president dissipated two women, and then I got kicked out of the SDP. So, colleagues and colleagues don't want my company, and that's okay, they have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67747	Thank you very much. I thanked one MP, and I'm not going to tell anyone who's rightly raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure because we've totally gone off topic. Thank you, Mr. Glavasevic. And Mr. Miro Bulj has a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67748	After a political lecture like this, I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67749	Thank you, Mr. Bull. You and Mr. Glavasevic are both right. Mrs Grozdana Peric will have an individual discussion. She gave up, I apologize. She didn't give up on the display. Okay. Mr. Erik Fabianic is both on display and here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67750	Thank you, Vice President, members and members of this Croatian Assembly. I don't want to talk about trade, because I really don't think this part of this particular text is relevant. It is relevant when other laws are passed to obtain some crumbs. It can be interpreted that way, but I don't want to talk about it. The other thing bothers me in this law. I read the law and watch what happens, which is that with one justice we do another injustice. Why are we doing wrong? And what's my question, so if we have that part that's about the amendment committee, which is that the law won't come into force tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, what's the rush? Why first, why not read first and second? And I'll tell you why? To improve it. That's what I told my colleague, Silvan, and I told you I'd write the amendment if you'd accept it. If you won't accept it, and since I'm part of the opposition, they probably won't accept it, then I won't even write it. And now I'm going to tell you what the essence of my amendment is that I'm not going to give because this won't have two readings to improve that regulation. Like this, the census is 2500 kuna, we're talking about a single man. What if I have 2501 kuna? If I have 2501 kuna, that means my real pension goes to 2431 kuna, because for 69 kuna, it's less than the one that's going to be free of the contribution, voluntary health insurance. Did we wrong people? We did. And considering these 70 kunas, it's on that pension of 2500 kuna if it's about, that's almost a year, two internships that are de facto erased just because someone decided that up to 2500 can, 2501 can't. That's how it's been so far in the old law. And it's not like I made it up for myself. That's what the pensioners told me, right from Istria who were angry with that fact. Because of one kuna, I now have a smaller pension because I have to pay extra insurance than the one the state has released. And that's unfair. We were able to fix it from two readings. It can be fixed. It is simply said, it simply formulates that the payment of contributions goes to a certain limit, and that the difference is possibly paid up to 2570 kuna. It's very simple. And all I have to do is write, I didn't write, because if it's in two readings what I'm going to write when it comes from the hills, from the valley. So I don't know how I'm going to vote, because it's unfair and it can be improved. It could be improved through two readings, could be done more and better. It can always be done more and better. But I see as much as my friend Silvano has gone to the other side because I'm on this side he wouldn't accept my amendment, so at least he told me. Well, I'd be honored to deny it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67751	Okay. You have a line to Mr. Bulja, Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67752	Thank you very much. I just need to remember when we talk about the laws the opposition has proposed. Once I was proposed by the SDP representative, I was then in the majority of Penic in the 2016 term and it passed the law because then the Bridge voted with the SDP and then passed, I remember there was some emergency assistance, islands, problems. Otherwise, I was the parliamentary representative of the majority here, and I didn't vote for the budget because they didn't vote for me, I, as a majority, gave two amendments to Zagori, and I voted against the budget, and I was part of the majority. Is that true, Minister? Here, just if there were any precedents, so Silvano Hrelja could have accepted your proposal or the amendment you gave, and probably he would have accepted that the day of the amendment. I wish I'd known you'd given the amendment... Here, maybe I have time... [[You don't understand.]] I'd take it. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67753	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67754	Well, my answer is, I don't know what the rush is. I'm saying, it could really go into two readings and then we could focus more carefully on both this and the other. Because the questions about what is burdening the pensioners are very much. You've got other situations, so I'm going to get out of the picture for a while. Do you know that the exemption from the subscription required by Croatian pensioners to them has been denied because they claim to receive foreign pension even though they do not receive it, but have only filed an application for pension under the international regime and are then asked by foreign ino-security to give confirmation that they do not receive a pension? Do we want to talk about it? And HRT subscription is a little more than extra insurance for God's people. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67755	No, no, you're out. Mr. Hrvoje Simic is finally in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67756	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Hrelja proposes to the legislator of the Law, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here at the end of today's presentation, we can say that we heard also the promoter, and the government's representative of our secretary of state, we heard the thinking of the representatives' clubs, we heard the position, we heard the opposition. Unfortunately, we've heard too much politicizing and moralizing. But I think that the final court on the positive results of today's debate, or the recent vote of this Act, will give those who will be users of this Law, and we have heard that 120 new ones will be included and a total of 420 thousand who will use exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts, which is by adopting this Act, a free insurance policy. What, here's because my colleagues are asking me to try to cut short, I'm going to do it on request, and that's just to warn you that what's most important is that the income census is raised to 2 thousand kuna or 2 and a half thousand kuna per single person. Also, what should be said is that the full amount of funds and budget rebalance amounted to 16.8 million kuna, but about 101 million kuna for 2022 and 2023. What is extremely good, and this is that here, regardless of the various thoughts and views related to the proposer above all, rather than the proposed law that we will still as a majority help all those who are needed and these are our poorest citizens. So here's what I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. I also thank you for what has been said to be support, and here I am, finally on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, can say, of course, that we support such a bill. Finally, since I am a doctor and we have touched on some health issues today that the epidemiological situation is very serious, and that we still do not take the seriousness of the situation no different than how we should not look at it, I am using the opportunity to tell everyone that they are inoculating, that we are not dividing by cleavage rather than being vaccinated and that we are helping others, of course, ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67757	Thank you. We all agree with that, but it's not exactly a subject, but we agree with that. Mr. Hrelja has a final word on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67758	Dear colleagues and colleagues of the emergency procedure of the Croatian Parliament is not a hilly-wrestle. Why emergency procedure? In order to increase the censorship and bring the censorship in line by 30 November. Because according to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, one yearly Croatian Health Insurance Office is obliged to align these censorships with the increase in cost of life, or the increase in wages compared to 70, 30 or at least 50, 50. So, I use the opportunity in my final speech to thank all my colleagues and colleagues who participated in this debate on and constructive criticism, and in nice words, and the stings and all the things that were in this debate, it's all right, it's all between us because it's at a very tolerated level. I also appreciate the government's understanding and respect of the arguments to make this quality shift for the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I thank all the party colleagues who have fought with me for the preservation of public insurance and the increase in censorship and have been against the purchase of an additional health insurance policy from 2016 to today. Yes, we collected signatures of citizens' support in the squares throughout the beautiful our cold weather in 2016 and the cold autumn of 2019. Yes, it was done by representatives of the oldest citizens of Croatia and it was worth it and it deserves every respect. All of them, especially my colleagues, Mark Lotar, who, in 2016, collected 4 thousand 380 signatures on the move of the Vice-Presidents of the General Station, I dedicate this Law and this beautiful result to the protection of the poorest citizens of Croatia, especially the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67759	Thank you, too. Mrs. Murganic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67760	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed colleague is here because of the public who threw in some way in his debate the crucial colleague Fabianić let's say "bubu in the ear" or "open questionnaire". How is it possible, perhaps you know because he spoke to you because of a possible amendment to make such a censorship that any pensioner or citizen who, with his income above that censorship is still covered by this supplementary insurance? How is that possible if and increases will always be someone who will be above it and in some way feel wrong? A team more if that financial amount is small, the amount of a few kunas. So that's pretty intriguing. If there's a possibility that you know that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67761	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67762	I don't know any more about censorship than you do who's been dealing with these various social censorships as long as you do. But if a colleague Fabianic makes one and patents such a flexible census, I will be the first advocate to have such a censorship in all the laws in the future. Not just this one. Everything where there's an over-census.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67763	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67764	Thank you very much. As you said, it's going to be the most important thing in the end that this goes through to vote, regardless of what happens to pricks, everything that happens. However, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not responded to my request. For what? I signed the same thing to you at the time, and I signed you when you were an opposition and now that you're in charge of the majority. What changed his mind? I thought my colleague Murganic would... smiling about these questions that she would give an answer, but she didn't give it. [[You don't understand.]] Can you give me a reason why this change came suddenly? Is it the same man who defiled your proposal at the time, demeaning your efforts, now defending him with his arms? That's what I want to know. But most importantly, I believe this in unanimity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67765	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67766	Thank you for agreeing that this is the most important thing to go through, and this is me, please, you know the Rules of Procedure, you know the procedure. Ask a lawyer's written question to the Prime Minister, and he might answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67767	Mr. Krstulovic Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67768	My dear colleague, Hrelja, you have shown today what the role of the Assembly's representative is. You have today, with your answers and presentations, resisted the populist way of action which unfortunately is increasingly present in this sacred home. Despite the remarks, complaints and accusations by the opposition, you continued to be dignified and how you said yourself to fight for the interests of those you answer to, those that are most needed in Croatian society. I, as representative of 1st, convenes the Assembly of the 90th. In 92nd of those days of pride and glory, I have listened with pleasure today to your defense of this thesis, your efforts for this law, and I thank you very much for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67769	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67770	I thank you and I thank you for your confession, and I must honestly tell you that if I lack something and I certainly miss it, I don't miss endurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67771	Mr. Miro Bulj's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67772	Thank you very much. I was the one who picked up when my colleague Oprah was talking about a violation of Rule 238. By his conduct, he insults other MPs. I think the law is good. But half a year ago he was good, and that's when I signed him, and now that he's here, Mr. Hrell is in most of it. You were then from those benches attacking this proposal from A to Z and that's the problem. It's important to pass the proposal. But don't be hypocritical if Mr. Hrell doesn't raise his hand to you, believe me, you wouldn't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67773	Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much, thank you very much. Note 3. by subtracting words for this item of the agenda. As you well know by looking at the display, you're calculating. Mrs. Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think you should be pleased that there is a general consensus on the adoption of this Law that is important to our citizens of the weaker property and all that effort that has actually been invested for years has paid off. I'll just pull the parallel. I've been working on amendments to the Trade Act for years. In 2003 they were accepted in order to ensure a decent working time and a free Sunday. But the Constitutional Court, because of its objection to the trade chains, put out of effect, so I continued this activity, and in 2009, it was re-accepted. But the Constitutional Court has re-emerged, and we are now in preparation for the third time, so I hope that we will also have such a consensus in the Croatian Parliament so that our merchants, and most of the women of the merchants, have secured Sundays and decent working hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67775	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67776	What do you say? I would quote one of our fellow MPs for their views that we consider to be correct. If it should be worth burning, then it should be persistent and try to realize what you consider to be right and what you consider to be our obligation as parliamentary representatives. I have this sort of meaning built and my principles of action that are really directed towards the weakest members of society, and I hope that you will succeed in your purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67777	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now respected MPs and MPs based on Article 247. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament I suggest we conduct a united debate on the following points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land – First Reading, P.Z. No. 182. i - Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 181. Do you mind? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67782	Thank you very much. Water is a very important law on agricultural land and should be discussed separately, because pesticides on agricultural land connect it incompatible. And in these nights about such an important topic, and citizens expect it because it's a very important land for us. 700,000 ha is raw agricultural land, and we need to discuss both the time and the way more seriously because of self-sufficiency, rather than mixing pesticides with agricultural land, which is unfortunately unprocessed in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67783	Wait a minute, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. It had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're the only one who gave your opinion. Oh, no? If anyone opposes me, I have to put in a vote on who's present in order to have a united debate? We have to count. Excuse me. Who's in? We don't have to count. Most of it's in. We're going to a united debate. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law when discussing these items of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, on Agriculture and on Environmental and Nature Protection. We have with us a representative of the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture, Ms Marija Vučković. ... All right. [[You can't hear the incursion of the Bukarica.]] Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67784	Thank you. I'm looking for a break, I'm looking for 10 minutes on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club in order to once again get the opportunity to point out the importance of this law, because this law actually creates the future of Croatian villages just as we decided ten and a half years ago by law on land to chase many young people from Croatia. In order for that to not happen, I believe that this debate should be long, long enough, high-quality, clear, unequivocal and that we should remove all the doubts that arise on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67785	I also approve of the suspension on the basis of Article 293b. Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Marija Vukkovic, Minister of Agriculture. Please, you can take the word. Here you go, and present the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67786	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed lady of the Assembly's representative and the gentlemen of Parliament's representatives. Currently, the Agricultural Land Act, adopted in 2018, has been in force since 2018 and has experienced two minor changes in 2018 and 2019. These amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act are proposed in order to ensure that the larger area of agricultural land is fully aligned with the 2030 Agriculture Strategy, which has recently been addressed to the Croatian Assembly, as soon as possible. The agricultural land law, which is in force, is amended in order to identify the needs for simplification and to realise, in order to speed up the availability of agricultural land, to reduce certain problems that slow down the implementation of the law, and to remove certain doubts relating to the relationship between determining the maximum area for rent, to the treatment of the previous owner who was a good master and to adapt the sectoral criteria to the observed strategic needs of Croatian agriculture, to the development of rural space. The implementation of the law provides for the establishment and development of a programme solution for the application of a public tender for the lease and sale of agricultural land, for processing and for automatic ranking. The funds for the implementation of e-rents are foreseen in the amount of one million and three thousand kunas with value added tax, provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 as well as projections for 2022 and 20 third years under the budget position of the Ministry of Agriculture for the activities of the improvement of the agricultural land restructuring system within the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. The draft law requires units of local self-government to open a tender for leases for free agricultural land within three months of obtaining consent to the available programme and to open up tenders for leases for free agricultural land, as well as those used without a valid legal basis. It is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture shall make available to agricultural land as well as to the resources available if the units of local self-government do not make available within 3 months of the entry into force of the law, or if they do not publish a tender for the lease of agricultural land within 3 months of obtaining consent to the available programme. It is also arranged to establish a maximum lease area that is no longer established as an obligation under the available programme but is left under certain conditions as an option for units of local self-government to determine in the competition. Changes and shortens the tendering and sale procedure, the electronic implementation of tenders is introduced, the county no longer delivers an opinion on the procedures for the availability of agricultural land owned by the state, but county professionals participate in the competition commission. The deadline is changed in a way that it adjusts to the necessary time for the return of investment investments and type of production, the rate system is prescribed to remove all doubts available for the determination of the most favourable bidder in the leases, and the advantage of those bidders who achieve the highest number of points of 100 points in which the number of points is achieved, with the highest number of points being achieved by those bidders who achieve a higher added value on agricultural land, have production in accordance with the strategic needs of Croatian agriculture compared to food security, create a higher added value in the part relating to the processing, former owners if they have met the economic programme, paid their obligations in good time and managed with the care of the good master. Domicillivity, young farmers, organic agriculture, status of Croatian defenders is also arousing. It is prescribed that in the tender for sale the advantage comes from the previous owner and owner of land bordering the land which is the subject of the competition, which contributes to the objective of rounding up agricultural land. Provisions on temporary use shall be deleted. It is added to the possibility of purchase by direct contract in case of cadastral particles which can only be accessed through land owned by the applicant for rounding purposes and the area of the cadastral particle sold is less than the area of the land owned by the applicant. It provides for a way of determining the replacement land as a compensation for the agricultural land seized in the recovery proceedings of the seized property. The obligation to deliver or develop an economic programme for those who did not have such an obligation shall be prescribed. Additional measures shall be laid down to control the availability of agricultural land in addition to the controls carried out by the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. Controls are added to include the inclusion of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, as well as the possibility of administrative supervision by the Ministry of Agriculture with verification of the credible financial documentation. Administrative control of the implementation of economic programmes shall be introduced. Penalties for the unauthorized use of agricultural land owned by the State as well as penalties for not carrying out an annual report on the implementation of the economic programme shall be prescribed. Following today's debate, we have a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which includes most of the remarks and proposals received by different public sector bodies as well as discussions on various working bodies, discussions held with representatives of the Croatian Community of Other Cities, Croatian Community of Municipalities and Members of the Commission. Also, when we talk about the Proposal for a Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides, the Honored Vice-President, Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives, this area in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Sustainable Use Act adopted, which has been in force since 2014, and has been amended twice, once in the course of 2018, for the second time in 2020 and is in line with the provisions of Directive 128 of the Parliament and of the Council, which refers to the establishment of a framework for Community action in achieving the sustainable use of pesticides. Following years of application of this law, certain needs have been observed with regard to existing national systems to achieve sustainable use of pesticides that need to be improved and to adapt its provisions to the field-to-table strategy, the EU's biodiversity strategy by 2030 and the European Green Plan. The main objective of this law is to achieve sustainable use of pesticides, reduce the risk and negative effects of pesticide use in a way that ensures a high level of protection of human, animal health, environmental protection and biodiversity conservation, introduces mandatory application of the basic principles of integrated plant protection to combat harmful organisms of plants, alternative approaches and techniques such as non-chemical plant protection measures in order to achieve sustainable and competitive agriculture. The proposed law regulates those pesticides that serve as plant protection products. In order to implement the law, it is not necessary to provide for additional financial resources as all means for the implementation of the law are provided under the existing rules. The draft law defines the competent law enforcement bodies, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Croatian Institute for Public Health. The remaining provisions of Directive 128 of October 2009 are transposed in establishing a Community framework for the achievement of sustainable use of pesticides. The adoption and update of the National Action Plan for the achievement of sustainable pesticide recovery, establishing quantitative assumptions, measures, targets and time plans for implementation in order to reduce the risk and effects of pesticides on human, animal, environmental and biodiversity. The mandatory system of basic and complementary education of all professional pesticide users, distributors and consultants shall be arranged. It regulates the system of mandatory regular examination of pesticide machines, the distribution and sale of pesticides. It introduces mandatory application of the principle of integrated plant protection. It creates an environment to promote the development and introduction of integrated plant protection and alternative processes or plant protection measures to reduce dependence on pesticide use, reduce pesticide use and pesticide risk especially in certain sensitive and protected areas. Following the above, today the draft directive on the sustainable use of pesticides includes most of the observations and proposals received by different committees and stakeholders from the public, private and scientific sectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67787	All right, let's go to the replicas, first respected representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, good evening, I am pleased that you have come personally at this time of day, and parliamentary or evening, and I suggest to the parliamentary majority that for such important topics they may place them in the morning. ... Excuse me, ma'am. I'm the chairman now, please. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67789	Please do not disturb the honourable representative in his performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67790	And give me back my time, 10 seconds please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67791	Give him his time, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67792	Thank you very much. Ms. Secretary, I'll have the law later in the debate. I'm interested in one thing. I know you've met. In Istria, especially in coastal towns and municipalities, we have total chaos in the area especially on agricultural and forest land. Big particles are being plotted to a lot of small ones to make illegal construction happen on them, so I'm wondering if what's going on under that plan and whether maybe it's already included in this law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67793	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67794	Thank you very much for asking. This issue has been included in the law on, in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land in a way that prevents further parceling of agricultural land under 1 hectare.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67795	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67796	Thank you very much. Minister, this is the 29th Amendment to the Agricultural Land Act. The age of the state is so much a change of law. You have also participated in the last amendment of 28 which has been a change since then as far as agricultural land use issues are concerned? I'm curious to know what you've done about it so far because looking at the usability of agricultural land, we're not self-sufficient, and we have every condition to achieve it. The second question, very important, is what has been achieved with the 2023 moratorium to make our farmers reach standards so that foreigners don't buy agricultural land? What was done about it? And the third question is why is not abolished, if Austria, the use of Glyphosate Mosant products and imports transportation and use to the Republic of Croatia, other countries are ending it, so please tell me how far you've come with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67797	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67798	So, as regards the first issue of the Law on Agricultural Land, which has been in force since 2018 under the same law, 161 leases have been announced today, it seems to me, a little more than 60 selection decisions have received full or partial consent from the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, most local self-government units, some in co-operation with the counties, have made available programmes, coordinated all the necessary elements with different competent authorities that regulate issues of public water goods, forest and economic fundamentals, the issue of return, etc. With these changes, we want to further speed up the procedure, we want to fully, transparently and effectively assign the country, which allows a clear system of points that is now in line with the draft strategy of agriculture, which was recently sent to the Croatian Assembly. And as far as glyphosate as you know, the Republic of Croatia is on all bodies. has opposed the extension of the use of active substances... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67799	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67800	Dear Vice President, dear Minister, the big problem for the country is that agricultural land owned by it is not registered. It is recommended that data on agricultural land be entered into the central register of state property. In view of the fact that the most qualitative agricultural areas have been leased for cca for 50 years, the State Audit Office has recommended a more efficient control system to determine whether the land is in a function of agricultural production or is a means of achieving the aid. In view of the non-compliance with the agreed commitments and the non-intentional spending of funds in previous years, the paying agency in agriculture has taken a decision to recover the funds. Please, will that work and how? A word more about pesticides found today and in food of plant and animal origin Please compare the harmfulness [[Intruder: Time.]] pesticides on public health and.../incomprehensible... genetically modified food is a shame to me... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67801	Answer, Minister. The Minister's answer. Minister's response. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67802	So, as far as agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia is concerned, once we remove all calculations with hundreds of thousands of hectares to assume that we have just over 460,000 hectares of agricultural land owned by the state, where this Ministry of Agriculture has so far approved programmes for the availability of just over 350 units of local self-government for a total area of just over 290,000 hectares of agricultural land. It is our assumption based on the data delivered, the demand and the requirement that the remaining ones have an additional 170,000 hectares in the remaining available programmes. Long-term contracts and leases or concessions have now covered 155,000 hectares, temporarily using about 50,000 hectares. The findings of the State Audits that we highly respect and we appreciate their work are also quite consistent with with internal audit findings conducted by this Ministry of Agriculture for the first time in a systematic manner since January [[Intruder: Time.]] 2021. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67803	Next replica, respected representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67804	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, here I will give you a Croatian absurd. Farmers signed a contract on the lease of abandoned agricultural land, but after that Croatian forests put these areas in a forest economic base and thus prevented the land from being placed for agricultural production. Farmers continued to pay the lease because, apart from being bound by the contract, they thought the problem would be resolved. That's how they paid the rent for 8, let's say a few years, eight years. They did not use these areas for, for agricultural production, and now because of the law, the land cannot be rented because Croatian forests do not allow it. So I ask you nicely, how is that possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67805	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67806	Therefore, professional bodies, bodies, institutions, the company of the Croatian Forests and persons determine what is in the Croatian forest, which should be on a forest economic basis, which is suitable for reforestation and what can be given for agricultural production. I can't get into a specific case. They may refer to a period of 5 or 6 years ago when this area was not arranged, and now it is arranged in a way that all units of local self-government should be aligned with forest economic foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67807	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67808	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers of Agriculture has special meaning for Slavonia, of course, but also for the entire Republic of Croatia. Small and medium-sized farms are very important in the overall agricultural production, but they are also important in that demographic sense. Considering that the number of dairy producers has been dropping for years, my question is precisely on the trail of these small and medium-sized producers who have 30 to 50 throats. My proposal, and perhaps there has been thought and in this direction that such producers would have the right to direct land allocation, of course by the number of throats they have, respecting all the elements of the competition, I'm afraid it will be too late for many of them to wait for if we are all aware of our milk production. Of course, through its programme, annual controls would be taken into account, of course, that additional and higher values are being created in agricultural production, but of course also in milk production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67809	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67810	Thank you very much. So, milk production has been very sensitive for many years and in a constant decline, especially since 2013, when we have lost practically 100 million gallons of milk in one year and have never recovered. Last year, however, the fall was halted. We ended up at 434.5 liters, 434.5 million gallons of milk, unfortunately in the last 3 months we have again given the crisis a reduction in the supply of milk, and for the first 6 months we haven't had that. As far as this law is concerned, we did not consider direct allocations because such opportunities, which were available for a short period of time in 2015, were then amended by Article 51, at the time of the Agricultural Land Act which was worth a month, led to certain distortions, mistreatment and lawsuits. But if a direct assignment should be made possible for anyone, it would certainly be small milkers, which should be said to be you deadlines under this law projected in a way that ends in 2022. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67811	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67812	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I ask you, on the basis of questions from certain municipalities that already have a significant part of the agricultural area under the ecological agricultural sector, in what way will the Agricultural Land Act that we have before us contribute to the conservation of already existing areas under eco-production and how you will in fact encourage the transition to organic production through this law to achieve some EU average in terms of organic production and agricultural area under organic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67813	Thank you very much. Article 16 of the amending Act amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land provides for the granting of 5% points to producers registered for organic production and having at least 25% of areas under organic agricultural production. I am using this opportunity to say that Croatia has slightly more than 7% of the area under organic production, it has had rapid surface growth but insufficient growth in organic food production, which is a common goal for all of us. Therefore, we are currently developing a national action plan for organic agriculture to be addressed to the public by the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67814	Next replica, respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67815	Thank you. In 2018, Croatia should have revised the National Action Plan for the achievement of sustainable use of pesticides, of course the Ministry of Agriculture did not do so in time, and now with a three-year delay, we are interested in whether you were able to do so and, if so, where it is available on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture because you have been criticised by the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67816	Therefore, the Sustainable Use Act, the Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, provides for the adoption of a new National Plan for the Sustainable Use of pesticides, more detailed and more precise, in line with the existing changes that have taken place in recent years, adapted to the objectives arising from the Strategy from fields to tables, the Biodiversity Strategy until 2030 and the European Green and European Green Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67817	The next replica is the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67818	Thank you. Dear Minister, therefore our farmers, our cattlemen have listened very carefully to you these days, your press address when you promised early payment of support to help them overcome this crisis. There's no money, so early payments haven't started, they're actually going to get the money to sell what they have. They sell their cows, put them at the slaughterhouse to pay credit rates, to buy blue diesel, to pay the directories. We know that this law gives you a hectare of land on condition of the throat, how we're going to help cattleherds survive if we know that unfortunately these days they still put their cows on the slaughterhouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67819	Dear Mrs Vukovac, I think that you will find it quite difficult to find my promise that it will be paid early.../incomprehensible/... and the advance payment for 2021 is being prepared, it will be as it was last year, and that regularity has been established in the term of this government, paid in mid-November, the requirements are being prepared and it will be almost 200 million kunas higher than last year, and it will amount to a billion 626 million kuna, and we have recently prepared a new additional programme of assistance published in electronic consultation. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, all the other colleagues who helped us develop this programme, find the funds, which was sent to the European Commission last Wednesday for notification also with the remaining payments we have by the end of this year. By the end of December, we will pay for approximately 2 billion kuna support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67820	Next replica, respected representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67821	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, this proposal to amend and supplement the law provides for an obligation in fact for units of local self-government to apply within 3 months or from the adoption of amendments to this law or from the adoption of a programme of availability to open up a tender for agricultural land. I think we should consider extending the deadline, because those three months fly by in an hour. The question is, is that enough? And teaching that finding if you are actually expecting a rush of jobs and obligations at the ministry, which is then required to take possession of agricultural land, all the competition-scheduling jobs. We also remember the experiences that we had when it was centralized at the state level while these jobs were carried out by the Agricultural Land Agency, it turned out that it might actually have been somehow a narrow throat throughout the system. Does this mean that you actually plan and further team your ministry, do you even expect to have a lot of these jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67822	This Ministry of Agriculture always counts and prepares for additional jobs that would benefit Croatian farmers. We have proposed these deadlines, and this will be the answer to the question of Mr. Mira Bulj's parliamentary representative, not the time he allowed me to answer. We've adjusted these deadlines and the time of the expiry of the extended moratorium that we've come up with in the term of office of this government. Proved the conditions for him were met. We have further proposed to the Commission by one member, an expert from the county and one member from the Ministry of Agriculture, an education on programme implementation and electronic support, digital support for faster implementation of competitions to all units of local self-government. As always, this Ministry of Agriculture will, of course, seriously consider all the proposals and remarks made in the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67823	Next debate, respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67824	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, let's imagine a situation together. A farmer from Trpinje has some inherited land, which is his grandfather's, has some land to benefit from, which is state-owned and is not in the VAT system. Can he mate with any legal person in a contest that will be called?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67825	Of course, in almost all criteria small economies have been priorityd, further priority being given to the sectoral need in line with both the principle of food security and the draft agricultural strategy. So, the small agricultural producer who comes, who is domicillous in his municipality and if he deals 25% with permanent crops or vegetables, seed production or livestock, practically has no chance of losing his country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67826	Next replica, the respected representative Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67827	Thank you. Dear Ministers, when we talk about the famous economic programmes that have created problems on the ground only with these amendments and additions to the law, all concessionaries and tenants whose economic programme is an integral part of the contract, and who have not implemented it or implemented it in part, it is prescribed that the same economic programme is to be implemented within a year. I ask you, what will be the consequences if they don't do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67828	So this ministry has implemented a system of reviewing the use of agricultural land for those leases, concessions and use of more than 50 hectares, and it is used quite well, it is used in this way practically the best Croatian country for agricultural production. Additional controls of economic programmes are also prescribed through administrative supervision, not only through inspection supervision, not only on the ground, but on checks and business books. As regards the provisions on transitional periods, on extra time, they are proposed in a way to age the balance, to offer people a solution since they haven't been as controlled lately and the consequences if they don't meet depending on the severity of the injury, and not the realization of the production that is... economic... the particularly severe injury is then the breakup.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67829	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67830	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. With this proposal, amendments and additions to the law have caused a lot of obstacles to change. 36. means domicillality is no longer a basic criterion, so this article introduces the possibility to report to the competition also of neighbouring municipalities and cities. If we consider that Croatia has over 500 units of local self-government that the municipalities of what cities have, we have a lot of municipalities that are no longer in their territory of the state because, in the meantime, it has sold, for example, that could lead certain OPGs to a very unfavourable position, but not only them, but also the budget of those units of local self-government if there are difficulties and perhaps even the collapse of some OPGs in the area of that municipality where in principle there is state land. What in that case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67831	Therefore, it is not exactly true that domicillivity no longer plays any role, OPGs and crafts of therefore natural persons bearers of the unit of local self-government that publishes the tender perform 15 points, those from neighbouring municipalities cannot achieve 15 points, achieve 10 points, 15 of those whose agriculture is primary activity, 12 of those whose agriculture is not an additional activity, so the domicillability is very valuable. But the most important criterion for Croatia is to create and produce food on agricultural land now in the present and to preserve this agricultural land for future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67832	Next replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with your associates. Well, I am pleased to see that in this proposal the amendments and addition of the Law on Agricultural Land also have Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of the dead and missing Croatian defenders and are worth five points. I hope that will help them in this tendering form that collects 100 points maximum through these about eight items and sub-items that are possible in this bill. I believe that you have considered all the legislative proposals well and there are certain things that we could still supplement, which is that extremely in art. The 13th of century 2 is the exception of St. 1. This article is intended to cover agricultural land owned by the State provided for in the programme. I would add unsettled property relations which, after the failed PICs, remained land, and did not harmonize the grants, the cadastre to keep it in this exception as a five-year law... until they get rid of property legal relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67834	Thank you very much for asking. So, as for the status of Croatian defenders who have achieved the most important victory, I would say in history in the rich history of this country, a rich historical and cultural bring about freedom of independence and freedom from all totalitarian regimes, I would also like to say today in our peaceful Croatia they show very valuable innovative and good agricultural initiatives and today they are where they need to be, today recognize new trends, and even leaders in some excellent and competitive forms of association. I was also on an important stand yesterday related to defenders, organised defenders, and fostering agricultural activity. With regard to the problem of unresolved property relations and separation or different entries in books or catasters and grantaries, we have foreseen here certain changes in the Law on Agricultural Land, but as I said earlier, it is worth every remark. The ministry will seriously consider this. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67835	The next replica, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67836	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Minister. We need to be honest that and one part of the local self-government unit essentially delayed the call for competitions whether because of some fear, whether because of ignorance. I'd say even to those who were late in it. This law makes it clear that a three-month period, and after that, if they do not call for tender, the Ministry of Agriculture takes over, but thus loses revenue from the lease of course of the same agricultural land. What also goes to units of local self-government, which is that now we no longer have to go across the county, but we put in the commission one member from the county, one member from the Ministry of Agriculture. And what's important is that the Agriculture Agency will also be very helpful in this. the part where all tenders will be made by electronic means. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67837	Thank you very much. The deadline is demanding, it is adapted to our strategic objectives, the need for rapid activation of agricultural land, legal certainty that enables long-term lease for investment, and units of local self-government will have all the possible assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, members of the commission, education and digital support we are establishing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67838	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. The content of this law actually depends on the future of Croatian agriculture, I see that the intention is to follow the strategic provisions of the Agriculture Strategy by 2030. to increase the competitiveness and productivity of Croatian agriculture. In your presentation, you have stated so far that small farmers will be taken care of, that domicileness will be taken care of. I see that in the rating system you also gave special points to young farmers, I think that it is extremely important to achieve generational restoration of villages because it proved through conversations with young farmers, different research done and the Court of Auditors' report that all the financial resources allocated to young farmers at European level did not give that wind in the back that was expected because they faced various obstacles, and one of the biggest ones to launch agricultural work and to deal with agriculture is in fact a lack of agricultural land. So can you tell us Whether this system of points will allow young farmers to move into the agricultural business. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67840	Therefore, this rating system gives a certain weight to the status of young farmers up to 41 years old and to the status of people educated in the sector of agriculture, forestry, veterinary, food technology. The law, as you yourself said, takes care of the draft strategy, the strategic objectives and makes a proposal for the weight of individual criteria. The largest concerns what we miss most, which is our first strategic goal, productivity and competitiveness in the international chain on our Croatian food chain market, creating greater quality food production, but also the proposal does not ignore the other very important strategic objectives of Croatian agriculture and rural space. These are generation reconstructions, domicillivity, stay in the Croatian village and third pillar of sustainability green component through organic agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67841	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67842	Thank you. Dear Ministers here is just a short question, are the family farms in the Republic of Croatia's agriculture based in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67843	In line with the Family Agricultural Economy Act, family farms that occupy the largest number of 170,000 registered agricultural holdings in Croatia are of strategic importance for the development of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67844	Next replica, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The change you're proposing makes me go in the direction of what you might say is an effective subsidiarity. So, for example, about tendering normally that the first role of local self-government if they fail to do so within 3 months then only the ministry therefore the central state assumes the role. My question, however, on the basis of what are your assessments of the effect of such measures in the activation of agricultural land owned by the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67846	Well, as you said, our proposal comes from the right of the local self-government unit and from identifying their role in the field. They're the ones who know the life and needs of their space pretty well. But it also comes from the need to speed up procedures, to remove legal uncertainty, to prevent continuous repetition of temporary leases that do not allow investment, growth and productivity. We start just like that from effective subsidiarity, we encourage ourselves to the central state and our partners who make up the general state to do what we have to do together, as quickly as possible, to put all remaining agricultural land into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67847	Next replica, respected representative Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67848	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I welcome you and all farmers who are in their fields right now, taking down corn and preparing for wheat seed. I must begin by saying that I do not agree with my colleague Mandaric, who has asked you to extend the three-month deadline for making a plan for agricultural land. It would be a punishment for all of us in the majority who did the legal procedure on time and made available to the state agricultural country by asking about the tender any leases, any agriculture, and many as colleagues Bulj did not do in Sinj, they did not. However, there was also information here on unprocessed state-owned agricultural land which is mixed with the amount of an estimated area of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia for available programmes. I ask you once again to repeat what is the estimated area of a non-functional state agricultural country, which does not, of course, refer to those areas that are in units of local self-government that have not developed a programme of availability.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67849	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67850	The injury of my colleagues' Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj is a 3-4 month mayor and chaos that you left in Sinj as well as in the entire county and squares are not irrevocably irrevocably and negligently those you praise and who have lost the election and will never return, believe me because they have done so much damage to the agriculture of Sinj, Cetinski end and Dalmatia, these are the pests that are 70, 7,000 hectares of the Sinj field are untreated, 7,000 hectares. And you're talking to me about state land. [[Intruder: Time.]] You're nothing but damage, when I'm willing.../incomprehensible/... I don't think I'm running.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67851	A warning, a warning to you because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next injure of the Rules of Procedure, Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67852	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238, Representative Bulj addresses me and insults the names of the pest and that I have done something harmful in Sinj. I have done nothing harmful in Sinj, but I have also done as you in the mandate of this local election since May have opened 2 competitions. You've also had a chance to call the competition, and you haven't, and you're asking the same minister. It is a legal obligation for you to call a tender for the availability of state... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67853	You did nothing harmful for Sinj, but you hurt the Rules of Procedure, or it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get, you get a warning. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67854	Needless to speak for the land of the state which is divided to answer, giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67855	Miro Bulj's second warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's a response to the minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67856	So, I repeat, the assessment of the total availability of state agricultural land is slightly more than 460,000 hectares, with 155,000 hectares covering existing long-term contracts or leases or concessions, 50,000 relate to temporary availability. So far, it has been approved for more than 290,000 hectares, and it is estimated that there are more than 170,000 hectares in the programmes and the processing of more than 170,000 hectares.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67857	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67858	Thank you, Chairman. I will raise myself to the question of the replica asked by Mrs Vucilović, so she referred to the number of local units, but here I am not concerned with the criterion of domicility but whether we have set the whole concept wrong. Therefore, given the large number of units each of which should bring its own programme to agricultural land, I believe that this reduces Croatian development potentials. And all the good that can be achieved in principle by this law falls into the water precisely because we have an excessive number of units of local and regional self-government. Here it is not only the aim of better production and preservation of our agricultural land, but one of our goals must be better management of state property. And if we have excessive territorial fragmentation, then neither do those financial resources that come from the collection of any concessions, leases, rents and everything else very often on the spending side or planning that will be done with the funds collected. They're going into the wind. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] When will you spend? Reforming the territorial structure? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67859	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67860	So far, just over 350 available programmes have been approved, and an additional hundred are being processed, and 161 tenders have also been announced. We come from everything that is good in these programmes, in laws, programmes and competitions, and we seek these upgrades, we respect domicillity, we enable the necessary rounding, we carry out administrative discharges, and we also give points for neighbouring municipalities, given the number of units of local self-government and given the link between agricultural land units in neighbouring units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67861	The next replica is Honored Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67862	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. It is commendable that with this bill you are going to improve everything you have seen through the application that you need to further work and help the local self-government to carry out these competitions more easily and easily. I want to say that actually the biggest confusion has been made available to agricultural state land since 2012-2015 when nothing really happened on that plan, and then there's this famous regulation that introduced a disturbance that we still need to clean up today. As far as land in my county is concerned, I think most of that land is actually distributed or distributed and farmers are processing it, and what's left is going to be done through this time and solved. This is a good point you've made, and it's especially good, and so far the owners of significant points are getting because they've invested a lot in both the machinery and everything else, so they're ready to do what they've done so far. Of course, those who have fulfilled that and their obligations have fulfilled everything. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67863	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67864	So I would like to thank you for this comment, the existing Agricultural Land Act is a function of publication of numerous competitions, and this law seeks to remove certain doubts, speed up and implement a transparent no one's doubt procedure by seeking to give appropriate weight, strategically sub-key needs of Croatian agriculture and rural space, and, as I have already said, of course, that all proposals of parliamentary representatives will be seriously considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67865	The next replica of the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67866	Your Honors Minister. When we talk about renting agricultural land, there are producers who have really defined themselves for the production and activation of the land they have in their lease and ownership, and those who want to actually have a larger area just for the purpose of achieving incentives, and then encourages and use it for personal consumption instead of developing their own economy. Did you foresee any control measures to control and prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67867	So many say that we are not carrying out enough control, and we are also witnessing numerous objections on the other hand to carry out excessive controls. We do according to the laws and in accordance with the regulations that we are required to follow. As for the support, it should be said that the common agricultural policy has been determined for years and for decades by the majority of its support according to the hectare. 85% of the support is given relative to the area with a tendency to continue to grow such a policy. We have barely now kept production-related payments for the next programming period, which accounts for 15% of the EU funds, which is the majority of the funds we spend on European agriculture. Therefore, agricultural incentives, not investment support subsidies, but income subsidies are given per hectare. Therefore, in this country it is professionally, consciously, fully and precisely in accordance with strategic needs that is exactly the hectare. We try to contribute to the law on amendments and additions to the law on agricultural land, the Environmental Action Plan [[Santer Invader: Time.]] agricultural production and the development plan for extensive livestock farming we have seen here. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67868	Next replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. Both you and I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County and we are well acquainted with the state of agriculture in the Neretva Valley. We are also aware that 20 years ago, the town of Opuzen and the municipality of Sliven divided the country mainly to Croatian defenders and that this procedure was infused with a significant increase in the production of Mandarins in the valley of Neretva. These days or this year, contracts expire to many tenants, so I am interested in what message we can send to those people who came to own or lease that land 20 years ago, and we observe this message through the optics of these amendments to the law. Will these tenants also have a certain advantage in carrying out the tender according to this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67870	Thank you very much. So more than 500 families in Obuzen live from the production and sale of mandarin in the Neretva Valley. I am quite confident that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Agricultural Land for all of whom it points out, and after long leases, the last ones who highlight the last temporary use contracts are very much in favour because they commit us to quick implementation, because what they do in the right way is a lasting plant that creates added value is working intensively and demanding, the status of Croatian defenders is being boosted, and it is also motivated by generation renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67871	Thank you, Minister, the replicas have been completed. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we open the debate. The first is the SDSS Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67872	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Honored Minister with Associates. My colleagues and colleagues. On one occasion, a farmer from the Vukovar area said if I don't get some state land, at least 50 acres I'll have to go to Ireland. And he's gone. Young people left villages for a simple reason because they had no means to survive because they had begun to deal with agriculture for others, but for which agriculture is not the only activity. Srem, Slavonia and Baranja, instead of cereals, have impoverished the population, and local self-government units in these areas generally fall into the most underdeveloped areas. Consciously or unconsciously, this law has an enormous impact on the demographics and outflows of the working-age population, which is why it should be well balanced around the opposite sides and satisfy the appetites of all interested and small OPGs on the one hand and large corporations on the other. The big question is whether we're going to do it with a law that's changed three years ago, and almost 20 times in total, although agricultural land is hard to say is a dynamic area. I point out, of course, a few of the good points of this legislative proposal, and in the replicas we have had the opportunity to hear it refers to a three-month deadline within which units of local self-government are obliged to draft a programme and it will all be quick and I believe that this provision is good because of the fact that individual mayors and mayors will no longer be able to set the rules themselves and keep the competitions in the drawer and thus bring them into a uncertain position for farmers. The proposal for this law aims to place all available and agricultural land in the role of agricultural production, and unless the units of local self-government do so, the Ministry of Agriculture will take over the availability and the means to make available what is good. However, the question is whether the ministry has sufficient human and technical capacity to carry out these demanding activities? Because to remind you, only a few years ago, it was done by an agency that even during a five-year period failed to do something about the availability of agricultural land. It is also positive that because of the higher economicity of the procedure that the counties are left out. Oh, my God, thank you so much for leaving out the county. And it is certainly positive that there is no longer an extension to the temporary contracts and that is very significant and very positive. I'm also going to say a few of the observed shortcomings on behalf of my club in order to improve this legal proposal. We are constantly talking about the speed of economics and the digitization of the agricultural land procedures, but somehow I lack the epithet of justice. This proposal does not determine the maximum area of agricultural land for leases by the agricultural land distribution programme but may determine the unit of local self-government in each individual tender, given the specificity of agricultural land, where additional conditions are signed for areas above 50 hectares. I wonder, what happens if we don't set the upper limit or the maximum surface, and will the big players pick up everything? I know that for setting the upper limit for various reasons so far, sometimes it has proved problematic, but might it not have been better to work on an existing model than to practically throw it out? Does this mean that units that want to protect their peasants should only determine small maximums? This bill gives only the possibility, not the obligation to determine the maximum area that can be leased to a particular natural or legal person. If the unit of local self-government determines the maximum law envisions that they cannot be reduced, the law stipulates that the areas so far foreseen for livestock and permanent plantations cannot be reduced. In the maximum area where it is designated, all areas of national agricultural land that a particular natural or legal person has been leased by invitation to tender have been included since the entry into force of the Agricultural Land Act. So these are the laws of 2018, twice as in 2019, but they do not include areas of agricultural land in state-owned property used under contracts concluded under earlier applicable laws. It's the same illogicalness, one irregularity we met. To consider a proposal for such a provision, since it opens up the possibility that large agricultural producers will become even bigger, and to the detriment of the man who lives and exists from agriculture in the rural area. I suggest on behalf of the club that I represent to consider the proposal to write two maximums in the law and define two points according to them. Of course, I'm prepared to elaborate this proposal. The current law has established that the offer is considered invalid if the offered lease exceeds the double amount of the initial lease. Is it wise to abolish this provision, or is it necessary to limit the amount of rent so that it does not constitute the most important criterion for success in the public competition? At the same time, to maintain the fundamental principle of equality of the bidders so that the land is not shared only with the money. I believe that we should more precisely arrange a 25-year term of land lease for permanent plantations and 15-year-olds for other types of agricultural production actually raise that deadline to 25 years, given that actual investments in agriculture require a long period of return of the invested. The farmers say that this range is about 8 to 12 years old, and I think we should certainly keep in mind that we are also talking about the working age of farmers. Most certainly, it has caused Article 16 of the proposal amending the existing Article 36 and the points system and those unattainable 100 points which, when we cut down, seem certain. We're full of young people to keep, and they can only get poor 10 points on that basis. Why don't we increase that. It's interesting to see how domicile is appreciated. Let us consider whether a sufficient difference has been made between residents who will receive 15 points and the bidder who, for example, will receive 15 points. Open a floor storage facility for pro-forms which satisfys this condition and gets 10 points. I think it's logical that the priority is given by farmers with long-term and real residence, which is why they need to get a bigger number of points and make a bigger difference, and that's how to make a real priority in domicileness. What about those companies that own an object in the local self-government unit and get 10 points, and they have an object in 3 municipalities as well as possible. In that case, they will be equated with the CAP bordering the neighbouring municipality and its primary activity is agriculture. In the case of the previous owner who can receive 25 or 20 points, only those which the land already uses with a contract or without a peace of property contract, and their share of direct payments to agriculture is not more than 30% of the total income or receipts from agriculture for 3 years preceding the year in which the tender is announced. I believe that the percentage of the stake should certainly be direct payments to raise to 50%. The amendments and additions to the laws provide that only 25 and 20 points can be obtained by the rightful owner, where the share of direct payments for agriculture is not more than 30% of the total income and receipts for 3 years, as I said, and the question of what will happen to small OPGs that use small areas of state land from which production cannot be achieved which this law aims to achieve but that area is sufficient for them to feed their family. Is it considered that the OPGs, crafts and other non-recipients allow for a transitional adjustment period? Something about a value added criterion for livestock production, permanent plantation or processing. They're useful, but we don't need to rule out those involved in warfare. Because their contribution is far greater. [[Intruder: Time.]] Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67873	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, the clock view tells us it's a very sensitive topic. We are already used to these evening terms with proposals and topics and laws that are sensitive, raise a number of questions and better to remove them when there are no cameras and when the public is not so involved. The fact is that agricultural land is a resource that has enormous importance for every country, and in the future it will have an even bigger one. All of us who come from Slavonia know very well that in Slavonia no longer asks about the price, especially when it comes to possessions that are slightly larger. You can ask as much as you want and prices go higher and higher every year. Therefore, the availability and allocation of state countries is an extremely important issue for the survival of our agricultural producers. This law has changed 20 times, and there has always been one thing that has always changed in principle, and that is the criterion for the allocation of agricultural land. What the waist tells us, which are some three aspects that must be considered when we talk about the problem of available agricultural land. The first is a professional aspect which requires that agricultural land is made available in a way that will ensure the highest productivity that we will achieve in accordance with the bonus, i.e. Fertility on agricultural land is produced by those cultures that will produce the most yields. And the first question that we have to ask ourselves when we look at these amendments and the additions to the law does this law provide for a criterion that values the actual fertility of agricultural land to produce high-income cultures on it? At first sight, it is because everything that gives added value is taken into account. The other would be financially, meaning to stimulate that production that brings more income. So this raises the question of reported programmes and sanctions unless all that is stated in the programme is respected. We're having these problems right now, so we're trying to solve them with these changes. And ultimately, no less important last year in the pre-election year, perhaps even the most important criterion is political because let's not forget that municipal and city councils decide where the country goes. The question is, will local politicians keep voter support if they take the country and give it to someone else so far? These are all three criteria that we must always bear in mind when we go into this debate. In 2018, a new law was adopted in order to aim to speed up the process of availability, better control and the idea was to put first the cattlemen who do not have enough countries, the CAPs, young farmers who are given priority at the award. Introduced is the criterion of domicility which I did a little in the replica, which is now being supplemented, meaning with that criterion in Art. In 36th, the possibility of tendering to neighbouring municipalities and cities is introduced, and there is a lot of debate on the ground, the Commissioners are quite complaining because it is not surprising, we all know what is the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, over 500 municipalities and cities and the possibility that it is related to these border units of local self-government really raises a number of issues, regardless of this system of points. And I see that the debate will go in that direction by listening to colleagues who were before me because it simply opens up a possibility where large systems and in some way OPGs that are domicile can be found in problems. The Law of 2018 also provided for the adoption of a programme for agricultural land, which should have been revised by the same units of local self-government to define the total area of agricultural land owned by the State and to make an up-to-date list of all sales, lease, concessions, etc. They also had to bring the programme within a certain time limit and if they didn't, then it should have been done by the county department responsible for agriculture. And it all sounded very good on paper, but it was a great burden for municipalities and cities and part of it didn't, and then I really have to ask myself why so many municipalities and cities when as soon as you go into some debates and look at what they should do, you come across the lack of both people and competences and finances for all these goals and tasks that they should be doing. Additional difficult circumstances are what we often talk about, and these are unsettled land books, unfinished land return procedures, cadastral measurements in certain areas and of course what is the pain of our agricultural production, which is the depravity of the area and, of course, abandoned areas where there is no great interest in production because it requires considerable investment. The fact is that regardless of the intention the legislator had three years ago, we have failed to achieve those objectives with these amendments and additions to the 2018 law, so we are now rereading these same objectives in this proposal that is ahead of us. And once again, one of the main objectives of this legislative proposal is to put into function agricultural production total agricultural land and this time it is proposed that if units of local self-government do not make it done by the Ministry of Agriculture, which of course could lead to a lack or increased need for staff in the ministry itself. What is also interesting is that the electronic implementation of competitions that again raises a number of issues is envisaged, since the age and education structure of our farmers in this context is, however, limiting the factor, not all of these skills. And it states that a new e-rent platform for this is envisaged to be slightly more than a million kuna, I hope that you will have another supplier, not one who has been working on a vaccination platform that has not functioned to this day. There's a system of points that's already been talked about, and it's probably still going to be talked about, is this 15 here 5 about that could be a lot. What I want to point out is that item 4 is added to the article. 5.i I would like to commend this proposal in this context because it is explicitly prohibited to deposit, dump or any other way of using on agricultural land by-products obtained from biogas plants in which it is used in whole or in part from industry, municipal waste or waste from waste purifiers of waste or industrial waters, we have often talked about biogas plants in Lower Miholjc and I hope only that the State Inspectorate will take care of it in order to protect our agricultural land according to what is stated in the amendments in Article. Five. What remains to be seen is how these amendments to the law will achieve the objectives of the national strategic plan, which is to increase domestic production by 2030 to some 30 billion, in 2019 it was in the green report that it was 18 billion, that is quite an increase, the country is a major production resource, whether it means by renting land in a proposed way to realise the agriculture strategy and whether we are finally going to become self-sufficient in 4 basic categories, which are meat, milk, vegetables and fruit, and that is the key that should be led to the adoption of amendments and addition of laws and in principle in determining the criteria of agricultural land distribution. These changes don't seem very promising to me, but here's what we'll see next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67875	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67876	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe it's not the best time for our farmers who are interested in the village, the peasant, the time, the timing, to say the great interest of the people in the agricultural land of expectations, the availability. I could only say that the greatest potential is agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is about 90% rural area, unfortunately more and more people in cities have happened in the way we see and see it and the increase is only in Zagreb I repeat it even more and in certain parts. So I'd like to talk here briefly about what's your... saw, which is a problem, and that's self-sufficiency. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of Croatia, we have 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land. This is the 29th amendment of the law seems to me... il 20, I don't know, let's, but mostly the Minister you participated in twenty-one, you took part in the last work, I was interested in the replicas that were made, you listed something, a colleague was just talking about the distribution of agricultural land in the Sinj field, it was already done 10 years ago, so the lack of information of a colleague who has been mayor since 2017 seems unknown to me. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have other problems, we have an increase, for example. karsko, the use of karst pasture, right, Minister, we have increased meaning of the use of agricultural land in that case, we have increased incentives, and the results are nothing, meaning we give incentives, and nowhere meat, milk, eggs anywhere, which means that from Croatian forests, we enter the Croatian forests a little bit or vice versa even Croatian forests where the meliorisation or irrigation is made, so we also have here in the vicinity of Zagreb where the irrigation of agricultural areas is today beginning to cover the forest. So here in this case. I'm interested in Minister, here we are often talking and you are connected to Sinja Rodinski, has anyone in Sinj, here County, here with me and a fellow councilman in the county ever launched a project of irrigation of the Sinj field? Is it running, almost done, are you sure it's running?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67877	Don't argue with the minister, please state your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67878	So we're talking about problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67879	Well, you can't argue with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67880	I'm talking about 700,000... only Dalmatia's distinguished colleague Sanader has 200,000 hectares of unprocessed surfaces. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So only Dalmatia could feed 11 million people. We are talking about the problem of agricultural land, the problem of pesticides is something else, organic production is something, it is very important, GMO products that come about I even gave the law two, ban glyphosate in the Republic and ban GMOs except for health purposes. Those laws are in the process right now, so I've been taking steps. We delayed to 2023 the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, moratorium so-called, as our farmers will in those 3rd gs. Since 2020, I have also asked for this and it has been accepted, by 2023 to get close to the i.e. that they will, in fact, advance that all have conditions as well as European farmers. I then said that when Hungary can ban other countries from selling agricultural land to foreigners, when Croats can't go to Hungary and Hungary is as far as I know in the EU. To us it's a question of sovereignism our country, it's a question, it's not a question of who's for partisans, who's for Ustasha, it's a question of whether agricultural land is a treasure, wealth, the crisis has shown it, we can't of course import bananas, but why import pomidores, why import pork that's fed to GMOs full of glyphosate, we import it to a billion, it seems to me, a billion kuna or euros doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter at all, about 3 billion euros we import food products. So we have space and I don't get answers what this new law brings to the issue of irrigation. The government told the truth at the beginning, the prime minister said it would name double agricultural land as it is now. You know how much he's supposed to be now? Not 1% but as much as what is alleged and all the money that has been spent on Croatian waters is questionable how much we consume, how much we do on the ground is dug up just to dig up and collect something, that's the problem, that's a huge problem. We're showing from the Konavos fields here to have potential, we have the potential of huge these fields have wounded the Dubrovnik Republic where you ministers come from, but it's not like that anymore, unfortunately. We're doing a lot more triangulation. We have brought Croatian agriculture that it is neither a statistical error in the EU to this we have brought it. We import milk, we destroy the OPGs, we do, but the biggest problem here is that we increase agricultural land, we give greater incentives, and we don't have results, mainly in karst pastures. It's a question of incentives, don't make it... that I've said it a few times here I can repeat myself, that incentives get those who don't know how many cows have tits. It doesn't make sense, it's unfortunately a fact because the results say it. I would just once again say and point out that in agriculture to meet the agricultural production standards, our peasant is forgotten, and you can see it in demographic movements. You will see that the border areas of 270,000 people have gone through the DZS since 2010-2019 have not yet... results and mainly from the border areas. So it's important for us to have a strong village, peasants, and not just for Zagreb to grow. The largest population increase is in Zagreb, and 270,000% of people have moved out of Croatia in the last 10 years because agriculture must also be a demographic measure. So during Austria, Austria-Hungarians at Vrdovo under Dinar Su Austro-Hungarians encouraged people to stay in the area, organized their livestock farming, organized their transport of milk, and now nothing, now nothing. We don't have public transportation to the village, let alone a cow. ... the zoo to know what a cow looks like, how a calf, how a donkey, how a goat, how a sheep, wonders what a sheep looks like in rural areas, I'm not talking about Zagreb, and that's a fact. We are a statistical error in EU agriculture and there is a problem, there is a problem that we have to work that demographic measure and national security not to be empty spaces like, Zagora, Zagora towards Neretva, these areas are empty, Zadar area, Drain area, Gorski Kotar, Lika, Slavonia, and agriculture must be encouraged by the state that is a fact or through another, small man, not that pastures get down karsks in which they are obtained. So it should be exclusively that they get people who will live it authentically and leave their families there, and someone from Zagreb opens up the OPG has no idea, reports I don't know the number of throats and gets incentives on it. As for this other, I'm sorry that this pesticide is a separate plant point because I have something to say about glyphosate, GMOs and what we eat. Our food is a bigger problem than covid, we eat poison, we eat glyphosate, GMO products that push on our shelves. We have a bigger problem of tumors than that diet and food imported by the import lobby directly from the ministry of the ministry, not those from Albania but from the ministry favour the destruction of the village and the peasant, and without villages and peasants there is no strong Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67881	Next is the debate of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement and, on their behalf, the distinguished representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67882	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me start by presenting several chronological indicators about how political decisions have affected the collapse and the return of the Croatian village. The beginning of the loss of sovereignty and independence of the Croatian village as well as the Croatian state begins with the privatisation process, combined, PICs became overnight the prey of fictitious public auctions, where, for example, the combination worth hundreds of thousands of kunas were sold for one kuna, tractors, trailers, plows all equally worth one kuna. But not for everyone, just for the chosen ones. After a very successful privatisation, task no. 2, which will be done by newly-roasted farmers with privatised machines. Countys as political institutions have decided to be very generous to their supporters so they are moving to a new privatisation, this time of agricultural state land and again not for everyone, it is known who can get round plots for all then 15 marks of rent per year. Contracts are signed by mayors, very important figures who don't talk to ordinary peasants, only the chosen ones. It takes the first 10 years to rent the state, without tendering leases, for the same money to be extended to another 10 years. At the time of negotiations with the EU, the mayors must no longer, on the basis of a discretionary assessment, grant land rather than define the procedure which requires the tendering of tenders, but still bring the procedure down to local self-government, individual council members led to themselves, their wives, godfathers re-appropriate land for use. It's almost as if there's no cattle anymore because cattle don't get to do politics. Councilors are being negotiated, false data on the number of non-existent livestock on the holding is being attached and the like. Although the DORH applications are being made, letters to the Ministry of Agriculture are being written, irregularities in the implementation of competitions by the competent no one reacts. And users of operational programmes for livestock development ruled local sheriffs with land division mostly on the party line. They even took away the land they had as part of the economic programmes they were granted loans to the HBOR. An absurd situation where the state has committed you to producing cheap raw materials for a foreign corporation with an agreed penalty if there is a decrease in production, burdened you with a huge amount of credit obligations and then took away the land where you were supposed to produce food for cattle, we have only in the Croatian village. All this was too much for many cattlemen, a good part of them gave up and went with the belly after bread from Slavonia. Of the 65,000 family economies dealing with livestock, milk and meat production in the 10th year, we reach 3,700. And how it ends the land that the party's individuals fought so hard for. A good part of them is given to third parties for processing although land lease contracts are clearly defined as not to be given to a third party for use. Part of the land is abandoned or under ambrosia, part is still put into production. Once I have listed as a witness only a part of what has brought us back, I ask you all here present, do you expect any of this numbered solution, listed by the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Agricultural Land Act. My expectations are high. I note that, of course, the Minister of Agriculture is not responsible for all of these, this is a summary of the availability of agricultural land for the last 3 decades. But this setting at the Ministry of Agriculture has a historic chance of introducing order and saving the Croatian village and domestic food production. I confess, the minister bravely went among our farmers and thus showed respect for them. I welcome such an approach because only in cooperation with our farmers can we produce quality solutions. And what should be done as a first and fundamental step? It was meant to define the concepts. The first term, which the ministry wants to do with the Croatian village. If we want to preserve food production and ensure the survival of our village, we should define who the food manufacturer is, who the cattleman is. That's where this law wanders like the previous laws. Without a clear definition, we open Pandora's box of land available. Let me remind you that land is the most valuable resource in the Republic of Croatia. It represents a guarantee of the safety of the survival of the Croatian people throughout history until today. But how much land does Croatia have? Various data are being calculated. It is even absurd for me that according to the information that can be found, the Croatian forests are lords with more than a million hectares of agricultural land, including meadows, pastures, karst pastures and oranica. At the same time, Croatia imports huge quantities of food and has a problem with self-sufficiency and abandoning rural areas. In problems with Covid, we have seen how important this self-sufficiency is, and thus enough food for its citizens, because in the event of any disturbances in supplying or closing borders, Croatian citizens would remain hungry. The serious crime of this bill is that it allows competitions to be explored for cadastrian particles and production technology, which means that we will further fragment the agricultural surfaces, and then the process of comsation is actually unnecessary for us. I'm going to ask a rhetorical question, and is that supposed to be Croatian livestock or not? All practices to date show that this sector does not need Croatia. We don't need organic fertilisers, we don't need producers who spend war products, it just seems like no one has the courage to admit it directly. Why am I saying that? If we were to understand how sensitive the milk sector is and how rapidly disappears, we would clearly protect it. These days, the Croatian village listened very carefully to you when you courageously announced that you would stand in the protection of domestic food production and that it would be this law that would help the survival of Croatian agriculture and Croatian rural space. But with this law, you protect your property in the first place, and all the indicators say our production is dropping. While we're investing in agriculture never again, so that money doesn't go into production and it needs to be changed. So, first of all, we need to start with an analysis of who owns state land. With this proposal, milk producers who may be in the biggest problems, who have survived just over 3,000 do not give a single point for their production. You could get points as a milk manufacturer if you meet 10 conditions. And if you clearly defined who the cattleman was, you'd see that they weren't even there. And then they'd cut the gap between cattlemen and warlords because this is exactly what this proposal is about, it's increasing that collision on the ground. The warriors are afraid of the cattlemen. But why? Because you've opened up the possibility that the advantage of those who aren't real cattlemen is artificially created cattlemen. I also note that 20 points are being awarded, and that is unconditionally to heroists, and thus we are again maintaining Romania's agriculture in life. All those who, therefore, actually have the right to access land tenders so far are indeed one discussion topic. I think that there has also been an irregularity because concessionaires and long-term tenants have actually met their land needs on the basis of previous available programmes and, as a general rule, it is necessary to disable the entry into the property that is intended for the lease, or should only allow them to enter the area where these concessions and long-term lease agreements have expired, and the OPGs, crafts and micro-entrepreneurs, they should be entitled to tender for land provided for the lease. So this should be a starting point for me because otherwise, the Ministry of Agriculture once again prefers large systems at the expense of small ones. The Ministry of Agriculture is also required to comply with the Agriculture Act with this law, and to enable the appeal of our farmers before an independent body, hence the court. This law does not have an appeal procedure and I therefore believe that constitutionality is questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67883	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representatives Jakisic and Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67884	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So, when we talk about agriculture first, we should admit where we are, what we are, and why we are, and that we are simply from a country that was known for its intense agricultural production, where strong economic systems were created today, we have come to the conclusion that we are already 30 years old. freefall in agricultural production. Of course someone's gonna say yes right away. We had five years. War, there's been a lot of destruction in that war, but there's still a question of what we did in those 25 years. And what we've been doing in the last eight years. where we are a full member of the EU and where there must be a lot of programmes and projects we like to say that millions and billions of euros have come, and the effect remains the same, we keep going down. And that's why today we have a situation that in all 3 products we are cattle, warship self-sufficient and that we can say that we meet the basic needs that our country and our citizens have. What is particularly important here to emphasise is that it is also a pity that the coronary crisis that has shown us how important our agricultural production is, and this inflation that is coming now, we are obviously not still ready to use it to make significant turns and to turn our agriculture and agricultural production in a different, new, better direction. It is certain that this is a slight decline in our agriculture, not to mention dying, has led us to talk today about the death of Croatian rural areas, the death of Croatian villages, and we are afraid all together of what kind of disaster will show the official census when the first initial results come out and when we see how many empty villages we will have the power to unquestionably harden and prove that before 30-40-50. They had a strong social life with strong agricultural production. We've lost all that. Today, we are facing an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land, the third amendment since 2018. and when we know what problems we have and what everything is expected of us to do if we want to start Croatian agricultural production, everyone can ask themselves why we have every few changes, why every little we have changes in the way we've had these last ones, so we've had our counseling, so it's come off, so some commissions have been doing something new, so this last change has gone on for 7-8 months. And this latest amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land gives less answers not to say more questions than to answer if we want to think about further development of Croatian agricultural production. In front of the SDP Club, I must say that we cannot be in favour of this proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, because for starters, we cannot agree to the sale of our agricultural areas. Earth, potential organic production, forests, water, these are things everyone claims to be one of the important resources and one of the great comparative advantages of our country, and we're as if we're willing to sell it all out, not to talk about what could happen after 2023. Opening on the Adriatic and in the coastal belt and how it usually can be when our agricultural surfaces will slowly but certainly begin to become building surfaces. We can also not support the rating system ourselves until the end because it goes on hand primarily large, and plus that the economic programmes as such are very little or we do not know at the end how much they are wearing and how we are now, which message we send to young farmers, farmers of beginners, which interest and motive for them to find themselves involved in agricultural areas and simply go through agricultural work in our regions that we want to save and leave in place in some way. And the last thing that would be apostrophe in this debate, we still haven't seen any action plan that will concern the NPOO and the story of how much it opens up to us with European resources, and how much of a chance we have again, we're going to get one of the proposals of the Agricultural Land Act, which unfortunately gives us the impression that once again, the goal is to remove everything from us, as soon as possible, and what's going to be for a mandate, two, three, is going to be told by some new one who will come from the mandate to mandate, and so unfortunately, at the end of the day, it looks like our agriculture, our agricultural production and our villages that came ahead of the same agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67885	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honourable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Although the trend of reduced use of pesticides is greater awareness of the importance of the production and consumption of healthy foods is still difficult, for example, the queen of apple fruit, produced in Slavonia, which has not been treated 5 or 6 times and which can be afforded by those with lower household incomes. If we know that 80% of all diseases to the health organization are related to food consumption, it is very important to develop awareness in people about controlled use of pesticides or to seek adequate alternatives to treatment, which is the responsibility of the state to offer farmers an adequate substitute to protect their contributions. When we talk about the Protection Act, we are talking about the sustainable use of pesticides, then we are not just talking about how we destroy weeds in production, but we are talking about the much greater importance of the use of pesticides themselves. If we know that pesticides are dangerous in themselves, we agree that whoever uses them must know and handle them, we agree that control and surveillance must be. We are witnessing the frequent withdrawal of products from the shelves store precisely because of excessive and illicit amounts of these same pesticides in food. And that is what, the desire for greater production, the profit that is the trigger that the manufacturer and does not worry about the consequences of using these same pesticides, and then today we have that policies full of food are questionable quality that we are not sure what we eat because it may not be a single product problem, but the frequent and permanent consumption of such products leads to various diseases, environmental pollution or animal diseases. We're interested in the safety of food that we consume as consumers, but how much food that contains the illicit amount of pesticides has gone under the radar for several reasons. Since 2018 All inspections have passed into the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate the situation has gotten out of hand. The whole set of laws has been for 3 years. It is in line with the State Inspectorate Act, it is the Law on Agriculture, the Law on Veterinary Controls, and all these laws are in line only this year, which speaks a lot about the urgency and work of the Ministry of Agriculture itself, while the Food Act is not yet released into the parliamentary procedure, that we do not even talk about the harmonisation of sublaws. Croatia is on the subject of official food control is located in a legal vacuum, which is what is crucial. The EU proposes a total reduction in pesticide use by 50% to 2030 in strategic documents European Green Plan and Strategy from field to table. At the same time, the EU invests considerable financial resources in research to find a more adequate and less harmful replacement for pesticides, and so that farmers can continue to protect their yields. The new bill regulates the adoption and revision of the National Action Plan... use of pesticides. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wonder why the existing plan is not revised or not revised, it is not in line with European documents and controlled. We are aware that Croatia needs to bridge and transfer terminology from European legislation to national ones, but we cannot agree with the fact that the opinion of the academic community is not respected which we can conclude by a series of remarks addressed to the public consultation. We believe that it is necessary to define more clearly the provision of treatment services, we are witnessing negative age structures in rural areas, and the inability of education for a number of farmers. We welcome the special protection of bees and wild pollinators and the introduction of a ban on the use of pesticides dangerous for bees at the time of the flowering of agricultural cultures as well as the regulation of the use of pesticides on public green areas. A pesticide commission is established, the law provides for certain activities, but no financial resources are mentioned in the proposal, which will be spent in the application of this law in the following year as it is difficult to apply this year because we are only in the first reading. The SDP representative club will vote on this proposal with abstentions given the announced corrections on the committee itself that we expect by the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67886	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, ma'am. Ministers with co-workers, MPs and MPs. The Law on Agricultural Land and Sub-legislative Acts have experienced many changes so far, and farmers and local self-government leaders have encountered difficulties in interpreting and implementing certain provisions, which ultimately resulted in slower adoption of the agricultural land distribution programme, the difficulty of calling for tenders for leases and the sale of state agricultural land, and ultimately the lack of the functionality of agricultural land and the absence of added value in agricultural production. Because of the real need to enable Croatian farmers to enter the land of agricultural land to round their parcels and deal with agriculture without worrying whether they will have enough agricultural land in front of us all is a historic task to pass a quality law that will answer all open questions. The way decisions are taken and how they will relate to agricultural land and agriculture depends entirely on the content and implementation of this law. That is why we have always advocated inclusion in the debate on this topic of farmers as the first and main users of land, but also experts and scientists who can help with the adoption of sustainable and balanced solutions because agricultural land is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia's good of special interest in the Republic of Croatia, it has its special protection, so it can be no matter how the agricultural land will be managed. We therefore welcome the decision of the Ministry of Agriculture to conduct a broad public debate and to refer the law to e-consultation even twice, which is an indication that it wanted to be heard and included everyone who has something to say about this important topic. We believe that this dialogue will continue between the first and the second readings because we all have the same goal of making as good a law as possible. This law provides for further discharge from administrative procedures, speeds up the procedures for the availability of state agricultural land, prevents possible unequal application of the provisions of the applicable law and lays down criteria for the allocation of state agricultural land. The planned e-rent programme solution should, following an example of the implementation of the measures under the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia, ensure transparency in the availability of state agricultural land. The measures to control the availability of compliance with the conditions of the economic programme are further strengthened, which is necessary because we are witnessing that some economic programmes on the basis of which the land was not obtained are not implemented at all, and there are extreme cases where the economic programmes have disappeared without a trace. We therefore welcome the decision to initiate the revision of these economic programmes and contracts and to introduce additional controls to send a message that an unfair approach will not be tolerated. The elements to be contained in the economic programme are prescribed but are not supported by the economic programme, as could be heard in some previous discussions, but are being pricked by the beneficiary of agricultural land. And right now, the score is the big newspaper of this law, which raises the greatest interest because it is about the system proposed to follow the priorities of the proposal of the RH Agriculture Strategy, aimed at increasing the value of agricultural production to 30 billion kuna annually by 2030. Labour productivity is planned to increase by 60% and this by increasing the number of pigs by 35%, by increasing cattle production by 20%, by increasing the area under permanent crops by 5,000 hectares, by modern greenhouses to 500 hectares. Boding in the Law on Agricultural Land follows these strategic goals. Also, it plans to reduce pesticide use by 25%, increase the share of renewable energy use in agriculture by 15% and increase irrigation to an additional 25,000 hectares. The high emphasis is placed on generational renewal and on young farmers whose number we want to increase to 20% by 2030, and they are just as a major obstacle to their business citing access to agricultural land. This was also confirmed by the EU Court of Auditors, which analysed the situation throughout the EU and concluded that the very generous money given to young farmers did not contribute to generation recovery because there are obstacles that young farmers face on a daily basis, which are primarily access to land, access to capital, access to knowledge, access to sufficient and stable income, and access to basic infrastructure and services in the rural area. This is why the rating system recognises young farmers and those who have education and experience in agriculture. The share of the area under organic production has been growing steadily in Croatia since 2012 and has doubled more than in absolute terms. More than 90% of the ecological area is supported by the common agricultural policy, and given Croatia's strategic benefits for organic farming, the system of points supports organic agriculture. However, it appears that farmers' decision to move to organic agriculture depends largely on the level of support, and less on market demand for certain crop species, and this should be changed. The benchmark system introduces sectoral criteria for the allocation of state agricultural land with the emphasis that food production is a priority. In our club, we would like to propose that the weight of individual criteria be differentiated in order to make sufficient differences between certain types of subjects and to allow small, young and domestic farmers to be able to exercise the right to use state agricultural land because they are also as guardians of rural space as a guarantee of the survival of the Croatian village. It is on them that the European Commission puts emphasis on its recommendations for the development of a national strategic plan for the future programming period, and this has also been confirmed by the Chart of the Agriculture Strategy by 2030. We propose to introduce a criteria of justice for those who use agricultural land in order to achieve the continuity of agricultural production for so far-time users who carry out their activities in accordance with economic programmes and legal conditions. The criteria relating to working and employment conditions should be developed to prevent potential abuses and gain advantages that could be artificially created. The increase in domestic and quality food production is extremely important. That is why we propose that the law strengthens the support of those who grow breeding throats and whose production cycle begins and ends in Croatia, not in another country. Farmers are struggling with climate change, and the growing problem is the damage of game on agricultural land, crops and crops, which raises the sustainability of agricultural production. We propose to consider introducing a provision which would pay farmers compensation for the damages caused by savages as provided for by the Ministry of Natural Protection Affairs to pay compensation for the damages of strictly protected species. I would also like to say a few sentences on another important law, which is the Law on pesticides because we know that the European Commission in its analysis of the national strategic plan, Croatia has pointed out that the trend in reducing the risks associated with the use of pesticides in Croatia is more pronounced than at EU level for the trend of antimicrobials and that Croatia has a good general state and protection of natural resources as well as the greatest potential in Europe for the development of bio-economics. We are all aware that pesticides have helped reduce the incidence of plant diseases and ensure stable agricultural production, but over time we have ignored those harmful elements resulting from their use. I would therefore like to express my commendation regarding Article 56. The law on the sustainable use of pesticides prohibiting the use of pesticides dangerous for bees at the time of flowering of agricultural cultures and for which non-compliance is proposed infringing penalties. I believe that this is necessary not only because of the disastrous experiences of bee fishing in Međimurje but also because we have to bear in mind that there is no pollination without bees, and without pollination there is no food production. That's why we need to take better care of bees and pollinators. We also propose that Article 33 of the Nomotechnical amendment and clarify and comply with the Seeds Act and the possibility that farmers themselves produce seeds for which they should be able to obtain the means of protection they need in order to implement this process. We also suggest that the article 60 to 62 be edited and explained for the second reading. Finally, I would like to call for special attention to be paid to the control of agricultural products coming from third countries in which safeguards are allowed which are not allowed in Croatia and the EU. Such products pose a potential risk to consumer health and are also unfair competition for our producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67888	The next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF has a respected representative, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67889	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I'm sorry we're having such a late debate after all day sitting here having a hard time focusing on quality debate, but here it is. I think that one of the laws most elaborated, changed, rewritten, and gave less results than any other law. The Minister here cited in the law the proposed amendments and complemented the need for further administrative discharge, which is true, the acceleration of the availability process. Unfortunately, speeding up the process of availability when we are on the verge that foreigners can buy agricultural land in Croatia I think it is too late to prevent the unequal application of the provisions of the applicable law, meaning the completion of the criteria. Three years ago, my colleague Davor Vlaovic and I, when we passed the current law here, discussed, pointed out and said that this law would not give good results, that it would not solve the issue of state agricultural land, wrote amendments, warned, of course we were ridiculed, did not accept any amendment, but it does not mean anything to us that we were right at that time because here is the result today that after 30 years of so much of our own, we did not solve the issue of state agricultural land as a basic resource for agricultural production, for the production of food as a basic resource for the survival of family farms. I didn't purposely ask the minister in the replica whether the family farms are the foundation of agricultural production that she should be, but their relationship with them is machete which is smaller, it's a poorer relationship, the bigger something better they're dealing with, and mostly things are moderate, they're focused on large systems that have succeeded in inheriting from the picks that haven't failed, but we've destroyed them. Some others have destroyed them, and this has resulted in me not saying new picks to which certain bosses are headed, who often do not manage well with the resources they have received, but given the generous support, direct payments and everything else that can be gained with funds very well alive from 200, 300, 400 hectares of land. I am sorry that there is not even one criterion in the criteria that would speak of the contributions made by those who have so far managed agricultural land. So having large, high yields above average means being a good master, and that means keeping the fertility of agricultural land as a substrate for production. So only the one who made the high yields maintained fertility. One who has not maintained fertility could not make high contributions, and this could be discredited as a good master who manages state agricultural land, meaning what is owned by the Republic of Croatia. That small farmers are discriminated against in some way, that small productions are considered irrelevant, and my position and attitude of the HSS is that each production and any creation of new value is important no matter how large the economy is produced. Here we have one of the criteria means where the share of direct payments is not greater than 30% of the total income. Which means this for small economies where even young people who receive support from funds are now open a tender in which by the way there is no more buying used machines or used tractors, I get 15,000 Euros and I ask you which, what money is for 15,000 EUR that tractor can be bought. And this poor guy who has a little tractor for $15,000 can buy a stronger machine that can meet his needs, even older, but can serve him. I'm one of the smaller economies, I've got four tractors my oldest is 63 years old, my youngest is 29, but it's top-notch. These are economies I'm talking about that are not in the VAT system, which are not in the income tax system, which cannot be realised, I can't prove that their direct payments are 30% of their income. If they sell on their doorstep, if they sell on the market or sell directly, and are not in the VAT system, they shall be supported. direct payments 100% and in this case how is not 100%, what income can others show? Receipt records? I tell you it's not like that in the field, and none of them can prove it's 30%, but it'll be 100%. Obviously, you talk too little in the field with people, I once told you that they look at you as a minister, pat you on the shoulder and don't tell you the right things, don't tell you honestly what you might need to hear for real. To move on, I didn't see a priority for indigenous breeds, we have a Croatian cold-blooded, Croatian Posavec, a production that goes directly to export 99% and I think there are normally other indigenous breeds that I don't now count, that I don't waste time, I think these producers should have an advantage over others because they grow what is Croatian value, a comparative advantage these are indigenous breeds. We also come to livestock on the day of the publication of a public tender of more than 30% of the conditional throats of the bidder on the public tender of all tax companies... female breeding throats and female breeding spring of cattle, sheep not to count further. The cow-body system, if it has 30% of the female body's breeding throats, means it's an advantage for the cadavers. One of the traditional productions is a cow-body system, one of the systems of production that can easily move towards organic production, but we're not well here in my opinion, I may be wrong, I apologize if I'm wrong, we didn't recognize it very well, I think this ratio should be far more in favour of breeding throats, then we would really favour those who deal with cattle in the cow-body system. I'm not saying that everything that I'm not just bad at right now means I also support what you've increased the lease time with the possibility of extending to the same deadline because 30 years is the period for which you can develop the economy, invest in it in the long term, maintain the fertility of the ground for five years. All those who had land for five years simply did not invest in the fertility of the soil but raided the land and all that they had invested in the equipment did not know whether to continue or not to produce. This is already giving opportunity for long-term planning and for the remaining successors of economies that will later be formed. If we had the maximum amount of support then it wouldn't be so bad in hundreds of hectares, so some of them who live out of support might then give up production, which don't invest significantly in production and yield, but today if you have 200 acres and about half a million kuna, then you're at zero with production is a significant money that can live nicely. I think this law has a lot of options to complement it, try to know that my appeals don't mean anything, but maybe something changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67890	Next is the debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the respected representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There are about 30,000 hectares of agricultural land in Istria County, and I hope that this great potential will finally be exploited. We call for further acceleration of the tender process, it should be acknowledged that positive changes have occurred, including with state institutions that have slowed processes, for example. in Istria and Croatian forests, they are much faster and more concrete than issuing the necessary documents. All we have to do is do everything to first the state land that has always been agricultural and this for the last 200 years since the Catastre in Istria was made until before 5,10,15,20 as the land that has been abandoned now began to grow vegetation, we try to return it to agricultural as soon as possible, and not as soon as the vegetation appears, it immediately goes to forest land. I'm talking about particles that are in the cadastre of oranica, fields, orchards, vineyards, pastures, meadows, etc. Before we go on a proposal that we think would be further added or modified in the law itself, I would once again take advantage of the opportunity to stress that we have good chaos in the areas in coastal cities and municipalities especially on agricultural land. So I welcome before I heard in response to the replica of the efforts that are going towards the ban on land parceling on smaller squares to a certain area except I suppose and it would be good when it comes to some desert debates, gift contracts within the family, etc. And to prevent all of us from destroying our space and our environment together. As regards the law itself in the area of jurisdiction, we propose that the amendment of the law rationalise the resolution of the administrative procedures in question by transferring them to the jurisdiction of the administrative authorities which are in possession of information available in their official management data or by knowledge which has far more appropriate inputs to solve these items more quickly and efficiently. We propose that the law in question be added to it as regards the collection of the necessary documentation for making requests and giving opinions, as well as the consent in the process of drawing up spatial plans by the competent authorities, the competent administrative authorities of the units of local and regional and regional self-government, or the City of Zagreb, in which the work of performing spatial planning is part, not agriculture. As regards compensation for the legislation of buildings outside the construction area, provision of art. The 24th century of the 5th century, it is a little challenging to interpret because of the expression in the spatial plan, the purpose of agricultural land has been changed. We believe that this is a nomotechnical error because, otherwise, in the case of legalisation of buildings that were left on agricultural land, and their intended purpose has not been changed, given that the payment of fees in such a case would not have been prescribed by law at all, I suppose that there was no intention of making such a procedure or failure to allow for the fact that the change of purpose has already taken place, so we suggest that for agricultural land that is located outside the construction area on the day of entry into force of this law and after the changes in the spatial plan remains outside the limits, etc., etc. As far as income is concerned, provision of Art. 25th century of the 6th law stipulates that the funds are made out of compensation for changing the purpose of the State budget of JLS 30%, 70% of the state budget in which the agricultural land is located. Recent transfer of competences for decision-making on entrusted tasks of the State Administration for Countys is a human and financial burden. It is particularly expressed in administrative procedures to determine compensation for changing the purpose of agricultural land. For this reason, we are indicated by a logical and prudent provision that the funds are made for the change in the purpose of agricultural land, with a budget of 30% of those units of local and regional self-government that decide on that fee, so it would be suggested to add a new article which would read, the funds resulting from the change in purpose are the state budget 70% and 30% of the units of local and regional self-government, or the City of Zagreb, in whose area of local jurisdiction the agricultural land is located. He also mentioned fellow Lenart indigenous protected breeds, which we agree with, meaning the protection of indigenous and protected breeds for the Republic of Croatia and all its regions, is detailed in the National Programme for the Conservation of Original and Threatened breeds of domestic animals in the Republic of Croatia from 2021 to 2025. It is our view that through the law it is necessary to facilitate the cultivation of our indigenous and protected breeds as far as possible through the recognition of the right of the championship to breed indigenous and protected breeds in competitions for the long-term lease of state agricultural land. We note that such cultivation requires greater investment, it is clear to all those who are a little monitoring agriculture, is regularly less profitable than standard cultivation, but is extremely important for the preservation of endangered breeds in terms of biodiversity and for the support of organic production, of course, the preservation of the tradition of breeding in a particular area of the breed itself and so on. It is therefore proposed to amend the point in question in a way that the type of production under point (b) of a given article, the type of production which deals with the dairy economy or the cultivation of Croatian original protected and endangered breeds, etc., as the point reads. It may also be necessary to further encourage organic producers despite the fact that there are pluses and minuses there, but we suggest that in the system of fighting agricultural subjects in competitions for multiple-point land supply, environmental producers should be assessed, so that more control of them on the ground should be raised if there is any doubt of the abuse of certain entities. One more thing before the end of this show on behalf of the club, because I'm going to get back to you in an individual discussion with some issues. In addition to the abandoned agricultural land owned by the state, we unfortunately have abandoned and abandoned private-owned agricultural land. Part of the reason is that at least in the coastal counties, in Istria it is, I believe, is similar in Dalmatia, part of the reason is that many former owners have long emigrated and left the country and left the country they were working for, part of the reason that they left the former way of agricultural production, and the most I think about those former agricultural areas that are located on heavy treatment sites, on heavy reliefs such as pastures on large slopes, there is no cattle on free pasture as they used to be, the forests are approaching the settlements, the gamer has practically reached the home threshold. We have great damage from savages, it's become a huge problem. We call on the ministry, I know that something is being done about the repellents, but except for them, because they are only partially and temporarily effective, if some way can be found and some model to co-finance farmers of certain types of fences of electric shepherds for the protection of game, and find some other form of help because believe this little farmer in rural Istria will lose the will to agricultural production. We have been very disturbed by the ecological system, biodiversity, forests flooded all the areas of former pastures and completely changed the landscape image actually in central Istria and the north. Today we read every so much that you notice herds of wild boars walking around Pula, Rovinj. The other day there was a portal once to walk along the waterfront on Rabac, so instead of changing tourists we have a day of tourists, at night wild boars on, on the waterfront not. This is a big problem, I appeal for help, and as I said in an individual debate, I will touch on some more issues because they are connected in another way that I am not talking about them now, and the IDS Club will support the bill in the first reading in good faith that it will also accept some of our proposals, including those that I will later present in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67892	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67893	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. Ministers with associates and associates. Before I go on the scale of things, let me just look back at the fact that we're discussing such an important thing by who knows what time terribly late, and it's not only that citizens and citizens can't watch and watch us while we're doing this, but I'm really wondering what the point is, even that we're going beyond this idea that it's important to put something in a porn term, and I don't know or tire out the opposition that, that we stay for a long time and so, I don't think there's any colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. How high - quality can this debate really be in 20 to 11 in a half-empty assembly? There are people who care about it on the one hand, part of their colleagues and colleagues who, by some kind of club duty, are discussing this subject even though it may not be something they normally do. And finally, in the same 20 to 11 we have a minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia who, apart from the debate in the assembly, has a rhythm that is significantly more intense than ours and I really do, I think I'm aware that there is no meeting president, there are no other colleagues and colleagues who decide on the dynamics of our debates here, but I think I would ask the question of how well this is really a quality and good time spent by the Minister in the Government of the Republic, even at the end of all of us, but good. Let's call it a rhetorical question. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to say this on behalf of our club representatives and MPs. In two years, the moratorium ends on the ban on selling land to foreigners. When that happens, we can expect problems, above all for small OPGs and small cooperatives that will not be able to compete with the capital held by foreigners. The protection of cooperatives and small OPGs is a first-class demographic issue and as such we need to treat it. This is actually a great example of how the government in some situations doesn't understand this because Article 36 of this bill does not really recognise the importance of encouraging cooperatives through the system of points. Demography is therefore not a topic today, but I repeat this is indeed a first-class demographic issue. Small OPGs should allow enough countries to be long-term. They can also get projects with serious investment in that country, if they do not have enough hectares, they do not even have a chance for real EU projects. If they are not given incentives and projects will again be given to those who have somehow reached a large number of hectares in the 1990s, and the country itself will be treated by poor people under rent who will not be able to live from it. There's something else I want to say about cooperatives. Defense cooperatives are an excellent example of success and should be spoken of. This way and from this place, although I doubt any of them are following it at this time, I'd like to welcome all the lovely cooperatives and cooperatives I've had the honor of working with while I've been assistant secretary of defense. I am glad that they are successful and I sincerely hope that they will be even more recognized in the EU in the coming years. However, other cooperatives have too little and it is in fact the only way for small farmers to join in and choose larger areas that they could irrigate. We're talking about orchards, vineyards and everyone else. In Europe, one of the data I encountered, in Europe every 4 inhabitants are members of a cooperative, so about 25% of the population, and in Croatia only 5 people per 1,000, that's 5 per 1,000. I think we should really change that. First of all, to protect our people from, from foreign influences at the moment when foreign capital and foreigners can buy land. In the end, we wanted to point out one more thing as a problem. This is the fact that the law does not actually foresee a complaint, but rather some kind of objection that essentially does not commit in any way. We hope you'll consider changing that until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67894	Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative, Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67895	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is sad and sad that fellow Glavasevic also noted that we are discussing agricultural land in 22 and 43. We are all going to have a basement that is very important to us, that it is with a few more branches in Croatia, and then not to talk in the late hours, but we have brought together a debate on agricultural land and pesticides, which I agree with my colleague Bul, and here he even has given up the debate, so it is too late for him, I agree that we should not have brought these two debates together because agricultural land and pesticides are two very important topics. Agricultural land, because without it, we can't produce anything, if there's no agricultural land, there's no production. And unfortunately, if there's no pesticides, there's no intensive production, and I was just listening through the debate, 90% is going on about agricultural land, maybe 10% for pesticides. And the pesticides will somehow go under the radar, although I don't think that something crucial is changing in the pesticide law I'd go into that glyphosate reduction and in some way getting kicked out of agricultural production. And as for pesticides themselves, I don't think these control systems are good, but they're not good and control systems in the entire agricultural production because we have a small number of agricultural inspectors and they simply can't cover those big areas. What's about agricultural land and what's not good for me is 29 amendments to the Law on the availability of agricultural land and I think in 30 years of our country we've made 2 under the alleged signs of genocide, it's the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Agricultural Land because when you change something 29 times, it means something's wrong. And to make it any more serious for these farmers of ours to work, you have to give them some land, and by the time they get to the 28th shift or the 29th, who got the land, he's got a little change, and now a little more can be fixed there. This new bill could practically say that it cements the existing situation, that those more or less agricultural producers who have agricultural land that they will retain their surfaces, what remains of agricultural land, and that the municipalities have not distributed it now is even a question of what kind of agricultural land it is because I know from my experience that it is being led into the catastro as an oranica, and that basically that agricultural land is chicare and that these people who finally get that land the question of economic viability of that land to bring it to the point that it can be produced on it by a culture, which just happened because it waited too long to give it to someone. The other thing is we all curse ourselves into little O.P.G.s, and believe me, these agricultural land have got the least. Less or less all agricultural land has been given large players, I will not mention their names now, and that is why it happens because when agricultural land is to be distributed it is not done in the ministry that we do not lie, it is done in hotels with expensive lunches and it is known which interesting lobby and which players are behind it. Don't nod your head because I know exactly how it was done and who got the big agricultural surfaces. We also have a topic that will eventually come to us on the agenda, these are agricultural areas owned by the current Fortens, we know who the owners are, the question is what they're going to be. But what's not good is we've never made a production plan for the sectors we're missing. What I'd expect from every mayor, to see what's wrong, if there's any youth shortages, so let's see if these mats can help them get some priority in that valorization in that point that we have a bigger production of junetine, if there's no pork production to see what we can do for pigs. We've systematically killed the milkmen and we're falling into the milk production. Now, the minister said it stopped a little bit, but if we were to combine the numbers from 15, 20 years ago, it's a devastating fact. And what should be in the interest of all of us is that we have domestic production, and that domestic production ends up in our sales chains and in our hotels, and go freely to the shops, by the markets, and you will see more or less everything is imported. Well, we can't even be around any production activity nowadays so we can say that this was produced by Croatia and that we have available production. What I expected, I expected at least this valorisation to be more adapted to the real needs of certain regions, of course if it is the Valley of Neretva that we will give priority to the Mandarins, of course if it is Slavonia that we will give priority to war cultures, but let's see what else can be done for these small producers and what can be done for young people who want to deal with agriculture. What we missed, we missed out on a kind of transparent plan of how we're going to make that agricultural land distributed, and I think we should make some kind of agricultural land register so we can see who's got the agricultural land lately, how much they've produced, and how much the state's revenue from that production. What I'm going to say is that total production is no longer valorized by a unit of weights per hectare or tonage than we are more or less by hectares and since agriculture has become in some way where it's all about how much anyone gets the incentives and how much more anyone gets agriculture we talk about agricultural production, and more we talk about hectares and total contributions from incentives. I don't even think that you should have put this in place that 30% of direct incomes can't go beyond direct incentives, not even touch it, but I think we should think a little more about indigenous breeds in livestock farming now in this last agricultural land assignment, unfortunately we're not doing that either. And as for the pesticides themselves, I think that control should be much more rigorous. When I think about control, I mean from distributors and in some ways I mean from agricultural pharmacies where these pesticides are stored, and in the same way try to control how much the use of these pesticides can be controlled, especially in those areas where we have more intense bee production and in those areas where we have in some way or streams or rivers or any watering medium. And now to talk about how much I've been listening to these stories of irrigation, irrigation, irrigation, we in our agriculture have one year of floods taking us all away, and then in three, four years, drought happens. I don't think we've done anything to that whole irrigation system, and in what state Croatian agriculture is in, take a little car ride through Slavonia, and you'll see in certain parts of the night how many houses don't shine anymore. And for what reason? A lot of people moved out just because it wasn't possible to get to agricultural land more or less all the land that was worth was divided and all those owners who are now either renting or buying it they will agree that these points will again be in priority condition and will lose with heavy agricultural land, only if they don't make some very serious offense. I think that all together I have no objection to the very changes in the law or in pesticides or here, but I think that all agriculture is worrying and that, in some ways, if anything is to be done in Croatia, we should really deal seriously with Croatian agriculture because, unfortunately, we are no longer able to produce to meet the needs of a region, let alone Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67896	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67897	I thank the president. My fellow MPs and MPs. From everything we've had a chance to hear, and it comes from the ranks of opposition parliamentary deputies, we can say that the opposition is not happy with this bill either. It has been said that this law, though not seen from the name of the law itself, is an important demographic issue because through agricultural policy, it takes care of the preservation of our rural areas, the survival of the village, the economic prosperity of the small OPGs. The effects were talked about when the moratorium stopped on foreigners, how important it was to take care of the structure of our domestic agricultural production, while preserving the principles of sustainable development and cyclic production. However, it was also mentioned that this is the third amendment to the law since 2018. and someone made a good point that when something together changes 29 times, that means that basic settings on what and how to change, let's say that from the professional services for those in charge, not even processed properly. In this opening part, I'm going to try to tell you where the main problem is and why that is. So, I think the main problem is that, not once at all, we didn't know what we were really trying to achieve. So it all comes down to a question whose hectares, number 2, whose incentives, number 3, where can agricultural incentives be placed? But that should also be added to the questions that I think no one is asking besides me, whose income are from the fees collected for renting agricultural land and how is it managed? I think with the way we approach the Agricultural Land Act, I don't know which way, I say here's 29 times all together or three times since 2018. only a brush on the surface without knowing that even this law cannot lead to any real results unless access to some other deeper structural reforms. It seems to me that one parliamentary representative mentioned this on the way along the way, thank God that in some parts of the process since the adoption of these programmes for agricultural land, there are no more counties. So I'll point out if we need the counties in the number and shape they're in now at all? So, I think that, if this law were to be properly analysed, the effects of its provisions point to the necessity of territorial reorganisation and territorial structure, without going into rationalization of the surfaces of our local administration, we will not be able to achieve what should be achieved not only this law but we will not even hear the ideas of that Law on land membership. And the third thing when we talk about how incomes are used by local units, here's what I'm going to tell the experience of one of my practice law cases. Therefore, it was a farmer who needed large agricultural areas for his herds, of course, that the fields in particular do not know the boundaries of the part-round of certain smaller municipalities. Each of them carried out its own agricultural land leases and each had some of its own criteria to which individual fields would be assigned and whom they would not. Finally, the OPG producer's entrepreneur was forced to make private contracts with each of these units, even if it managed in some way to reach the required fields, of course that all of this was negatively reflected on its agricultural production, and in the end those amounts of funds paid by each of these separate municipalities each of them was using the moss for completely wrong and wrong purposes. And when we look at the effects of all of our current agricultural measures, we will see that in a number of areas the whole system of subsidies and incentives has been used with a wave for those farmers who have neither produced a kilo of wheat nor a liter of milk on the one hand, we see that the leases for these same agricultural areas have been given to local units who did not know with their weak, small, limited resources and insufficient administrative capacity to come up with wider infrastructure programmes so that these same agricultural producers can be of greater benefit. And all of this puts us in a position where when we look at what our agricultural production is like today, it's on, on very low branches and compared to those we had at prewartime literally in some kind of devastating state. And there should be an opportunity for the survival of not only our villages but also the state of our economy. I would also like to look back at something that the Republic of Croatia is very happy to do, which is the benefit of studying, or ordering studies from various international institutions, and among other things, it is known that there are numerous studies of the World Bank in terms of agriculture, but none of the measures or provisions of this law respects anything that anyone who realistically and objectively views us on the side suggests and advocates. There are a number of experts who point out that the state has primarily failed not only in this strategic planning but also in the design of institutional support for the control and control system. I will also mention the role of the agency, the Agriculture Payments Agency, that these days it is going through a very unpleasant, unpleasant press situation for the Republic of Croatia, which is that on the one hand, the EU institutions are checking the founding of large cash transactions and payments that took place by the same agency. At the same time, despite a number of staff to carry out their own internal analyses, the agency has the need to engage some new external employees. All of this shows that the problem is being approached quite superficially, and the effect here with these 3 changes in 2-3 years will be lagging behind again. I therefore appeal this time to the present proposer's representative to respect at least part of the arguments that come from opposition representatives and to respect some long-term needs for the development of Croatian agriculture and the preservation of rural areas and Croatian villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67898	Following individual debates, the first is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67899	23 hours, farmers, counterpart Djakic is awaiting these laws 29 times. At 23 o'clock probably now on Croatian television they are now transferring to see the minister's views, so this is more mocking with a very important topic that should have been in the morning when the interest of people, villages, peasants, farmers, OPGs is much greater. I can only repeat what I repeat all the time that agricultural land is essentially the greatest pearl and the greatest wealth of the Croatian people. Self-sufficiency is the most important thing. And every crisis produces food needs, and now it is. However, Croatian agriculture was at the level of production of statistical errors at that level brought so that the law, which was amended, did not reproduce any results. And now we're changing the law. Minister, you took part in this as Secretary of State in writing. That's the problem. As far as irrigation is concerned, it's an even bigger problem, it's a bigger problem. I expect an answer. The county is responsible for this irrigation, the colleague mentioned the Sinjsko polje is not divided Mayor Bulj, 2010, yet, here in Sinj will be.../incomprehensible.../incomprehensible.../... Mediterranean cultures of agriculturals. A building was found to be part of Split University. Now I'm trying to find a hectare of land, so it's hard to find out if people are already on the lease. However, too many weeds, a colleague from Novska you are the mayor of 2017 and you have only now divided the land, are you ashamed, since 2017 you are mayor. Now that you've opened a tender for land distribution, that's what you said. Well done, wave, cheers. One more thing he would say, very briefly, that in Croatia we do not have enough eggs. By amending the Law on cages in 2013 from EUR 13 to 15 is a cage, we import eggs and in stores show them that they are fresh, but 5-6 days travel they stay in the freezers so they are placed and are 4-5 months old, and domestic producers simply cannot come to the market or destroy themselves. That's the first one. Cereals, ministers, since these grains are, how much we give in cereals and give these cereals are exported outside, so we import again and our farmers, among other things, are making eggs, here's the milk they don't buy at a more expensive price, and we invest money. And what did we lead to? To encourage exports, we encourage exports in this way. It's a big problem, but I think they're the ones who can handle it. I said earlier we have an increase in karst pastures of agricultural land, an increase in incentives, and we have no results, no milk, no meat, no eggs. What does that mean? It's corruption. Where's that money, who got those incentives? That's the key questions. Import lobbys made a gift to the Croatian village, a gift of mar. This is why we have a demographic breakdown, which is why we only have a population increase in Zagreb, there are no people in the border areas, there are no people. It's national security to ensure people stay in those areas. What do you need a country if it's empty, which it will do to you, so it's not just a country empty without a people so we have to have territory and people on the territory, if we have everything around Zagreb and a couple of cities we don't have a future, it's a question of survival. The key point here is we haven't protected from selling to foreigners because we haven't made agriculture to be the EU's statistical error and these are facts. As for the imports of GMO products extracted from Mosanta full of glyphosate and other pesticides, I won't talk about it now because I don't have time, but I can go through the replicas if someone has the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67900	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67901	Here's my colleague Bulj, you've moved me to one replica, you're coming from Sinj, now you're down and the mayor, and always if he doesn't set off the harbor, it's an inexplicable area and a struggle for your locals down there. What do people tell you and how they comment on the state of Croatian agriculture, I only think about Sinj and your surroundings down the municipalities around Sinj and can you down in Sinj, your farmers can make you at least satisfy the needs of Sinj and the surroundings by your own production? And you didn't refer to the Law on pesticides regarding glyphosate, and you mentioned it many times, and do you think that now in some way in the amendments to the law it was meant to go into some reduction and transitional period until the final termination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67902	Thank you very much. As far as the Sinj field and the Cetino area are concerned, it's a huge and huge potential. We have a river through the Sinj field Cetina, but we don't have irrigation, which is county responsibility, so in mid-litta we have drought. If someone came from Israel from another country, they'd say you're normal, Cetina clear, clear through the srid of the Sinj field, we don't have a system for irrigating the minister, that's a fact, in 2021 we have this problem. As far as agriculture is concerned, we're a farming cattle town. As a child, I carried milk, I kept cows, I milked cows, I carried milk to school, I sold milk, we lived on it, the mother was a housewife, the father was a transport worker at the Dalmatinka factory, so we lived essentially. However, the village was killed, we have a problem that we do not have an organised public transport to these villages where there was once a lot of life, cattle, now no children's salary, there's nothing. Why? Import lobbys and cheap full of glyphosate and I gave the law in the procedure. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67903	Next replica, respected Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67904	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bull, everything you've said would be credible if you'd gotten the trust of your fellow citizens to do whatever you're talking about. Put blame on the state, on the strategy, on the minister, you absolutely did not encourage anything to call free state agricultural land and give to your fellow citizens at your disposal. It's called unbelief. I am the mayor of 2017, there is a law and a day today and we have opened several competitions in the last term, I have been telling you since the beginning of this term, May 2021, tender for rent and tender for sale. Prior to that, in accordance with the Law on State Agricultural Land, the employment of a agricultural director and in the territory of Novska, 100 hectares of private parcels that have been abandoned in the last year alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67905	I'll tell you again that you're so credible and tells you and the verdict a few days ago about your credibility. So the incentives of billions, where's the money, where's the money from the incentives? As regards the tender, agricultural land in the Sinjsko field was divided 10 years ago. And now listen to me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67906	Please don't communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67907	It will be the university city of the agricultural city of Sinj because you destroyed it with politics, you beg me You're nervous, you're a little neurosis. [[We're going to move on.]] , we don't have irrigation, about it knows the former Mayor Sanader how many times he promised, the only thing we have is waste from Vrgorec and bad waste management, no cow, no diet pay, you've swept everything, you've swept the barns, you've got no cereals, you've got no grain, you've got money back, you've got money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got nothing. ... [[We're going to move on.]] [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67908	Please. The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67909	Dear colleague Bulj, I also wanted to mention that in Croatia everything seems to me by 2020. 2-2.5% of the total agricultural land used, here's the minister to correct me if I'm wrong. We were supposed to jump to the entire 6% by the end of 2020, but here it is not even filled out here by at least some reports here. But I actually wanted to ask you if you had cases like on Brač that were to buy agricultural land, so they were refurbished to construction, so some houses, villas, or actually they're like stables listed in the cathedral, and actually, when you get there, they're some kind of villas with a pool. You know what minister I'm talking about. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67910	Well, a colleague will better explain how this was done in the area of coastal cycles, unfortunately less and less people in Zagora, but I believe that this potential that we have will be a tourist potential that will be very important in the hinterland, but only for a short time would he say now, here he would answer you that agricultural land is a greater wealth of building land, we will be sure in the long run. But I would say here when I was mayor within a very short time period I shared the funds according to the competition, the public invitation of the OPG to the city of Sinj, in the area of the city of Sinj, a very short time and that we will increase that amount because it is very important to me our gastronomic offer, our arambashi, our ham. Unfortunately, we don't have pork, we don't import pork, we call it Dalmatian, we call it Slavonic, and all the less piglets, they're gone. There's nothing in the brakes, brother, and the incentives are gone. There goes the incentive of those who don't know how many cows there are. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67911	Next individual debate, respected Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67912	Dearly respected, therefore, a country that does not manage responsibly with its resources calls into question its own sovereignty and leaves itself to the mercy and mercies of world powers and corporations with very little potential to influence its own future. Such a country is condemned to be very easily controlled and thrown out by various pressures and lagging behind in the development and suffering high levels of exposure to crises. Management of agricultural land as a key, renewable, natural resource in food production, but also an important source of raw materials for numerous industrial branches in Croatia is marked by wandering and political experiments. The attempt to introduce order and transparency at the disposal of agricultural land has been halted as political furniture has changed in power. Unfortunately, we still don't know what our total area of farmland is today. The problem has been particularly expressed when entering the EU. At the beginning of the negotiations, we presented that we have 2.7 million hectares, and in the end we accepted and signed a financial envelope for only 800,000 hectares. Already, that fact is enough to say how irresponsible we are to this natural resource. According to Article 52. The Republic of Croatia's agricultural land is of special interest and enjoys special protection. However, numerous examples and the present state speak exactly the opposite of not caring for sustainable agricultural land availability. Today, we have before us a new amendment to the law, even though the existing law has not yet been fully implemented. It was already evident when the current law was proposed that it was not applicable on the ground and that it would cause an avalanche of dissatisfaction. The OPGs and small farmers who account for 96% of the total economies gave hope that they could come up with the necessary resources for life. And with large users, it caused fear of loss until then used state agricultural land. However, when the preparation and drafting of the law takes place without an analysis of the existing situation and a previous assessment of the possible effects of the law cannot expect a different outcome. Such treatment leads us to conclude that in Croatia, agricultural land is used exclusively to satisfy certain political interests by creating fertile soil for corruption and malfeasance. The productivity of Croatian agricultural production according to the European Commission data is 66% lower than the European average with a steady trend of further decline. The reasons for low productivity and poor competitiveness lie also in the fragmentation of agricultural land. We have a number of cases where agricultural holdings process several hundred parcels, which put them into the very beginning of European farmers, cost-effectiveness and efficiency. The use of state agricultural land is too difficult for war cultures to significantly affect the indicators of Croatian productivity in agriculture because of the products of very low added value. An additional injustice has been created by institutions that have been lurking for years on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Playing the economic programmes on the basis of which the land was leased, then unprocessed land but used support, then the massive bribes that have been banned by law, but because of the sublets no contract has been broken, which even the state's attorneys don't see as a problem, are the reasons why it falls on all farmers. And those who use these numbered malfeasances and those who work hard and honest on the earth. The prerequisite for all structural changes in rural areas and agriculture is a clear and defined land policy that regulates the use, ownership and market of agricultural land. For such a policy, there must be a stable land management system to support its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67913	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67914	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, this amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land has caused a number of reactions and disdain among farmers themselves because some provisions of the proposed law go to harm, and on the other hand it is favourable to certain entities. So by adding Article 3a. The most affected karst areas are because abandoned agricultural land cannot be placed in the forest economic area, but should be activated for the purpose of increasing agricultural production. And such a provision of the law makes it even more difficult and makes it impossible to survive anyway a small number of these, residents of the area whose life depends precisely on agriculture and on that agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67915	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67916	I thank the esteemed colleagues on this issue, a really important topic and an important problem, because we note that recently Croatia's forest is easy to register on everything that has grown, so it is not any forest areas, it is something that should be disembarked and put into function of agricultural production, or food production. I brought out the data from as many as a million hectares that are available to Croatian forests, and on the other hand in this karst area where it is very difficult to feed cattle, those who have livestock can't reach land, and I must mention that in fact everything that Croatian forests do, they put it in a quota in which they charge for that part of the use of greenhouse gases, so I can also mention compensation for the general useful function of the forest. These are all revenues to Croatian forests and ultimately, that's why they do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67917	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Vukovac. The structure of our agricultural holdings is such that in fact the average size is about 10 hectares, almost 70% of them are less than 5 hectares, and 1% of them extend to 100 hectares. You said yourself that most production is directed towards grains, corn and wheat, one third is livestock. You have often warned of problems related to the livestock sector and have made some kind of appeal to help the sector. The sector has now been given a major priority in this Agricultural Land Act, but we hear complaints that it is not good, that it is too much, so I would like to get feedback from you, given that you have been in the livestock sector for years. Is this, if we can say so, a privilege, or priority to the cattle sector through the system of points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67919	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. So, then, that existing cattlemen have not been able to handle their own resources for a number of reasons. I was talking about them in the previous presentation, but I'd say mostly because the cattlemen weren't here to deal with politics, so they kind of got left out of those divisions. I am also against the fact that everything has come down to local self-government units because these abuses and abuses are common. In the end, small possessions were liked by cattlemen, and that's wrong. They need easily available parcels that are near their farms, close to their production facilities. However, they cannot come to that. I welcome these changes, it seems to me that something more honest than what we've had so far, but I still think the problem is that we put the lease first. If we had put production first, then still, I think the Law would be a little fairer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67920	The following is an individual debate, Honored Representatives Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, MPs and MPs. A number of amendments to the Agricultural Land Act so far suggest that the availability of agricultural land is not only economic, but also first-class political and above the party issue, as well as the question of ensuring generation security. That is why, with the aim of stopping land productivity and strengthening the productivity of Croatian agricultural production, but also to preserve rural areas, we need to make smart and answer decisions that will ensure the viability of the Croatian village. The proposed Agriculture Strategy plans activities to improve water supply infrastructure and improve irrigation, ensure consistency between production systems and the properties of agri-environmental zones, improve the functioning of the agricultural land market, land consolidation, reduce administrative barriers and ensure sustainable management of this highly important resource. In its recommendations for the National Strategic Plan under the Common Agricultural Policy, the European Commission also stressed the importance of improving land productivity, which is currently limited by the structure of production, based on low-value cultures, mainly corn and cereals. Low productivity could result from the need for Croatian agriculture to become smarter, invest in technology and digitisation, and strengthen the system of knowledge, innovation in agriculture, better linking research practices. I therefore believe that it is also necessary to strengthen the advisory service, because today a consultant comes to 585 agricultural economies, which is not enough if we want to improve Croatian agriculture, so I welcome the announcements that, besides the State Advisory Service, private advisory services will be financed. I would like to remind you that in 2017, the European Commission adopted guidelines on the acquisition of agricultural land and European Union law following a request from the European Parliament, whose study on the scales of illegal take-up of farmland in the Union recognised the phenomenon of land concentration in the hands of a small number of owners and the purchase of land by banks, investment, pension and other funds, particularly in Eastern Europe. In accordance with these guidelines, Member States have the right to restrict the sale of agricultural land in order to preserve the agricultural community and promote sustainable agriculture, but this should be in line with EU legislation, in particular those relating to the rules on freedom of movement of capital. Croatia negotiated a moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners for 7 years, which was extended for another three years to 2023, and therefore it is important to put as much state agricultural land as possible by that deadline. I therefore welcome the provisions of this law which remove administrative barriers, simplify procedures and ensure that state agricultural land is put into service as soon as possible. I welcome and implement the revision of the contracts so far concluded and the verification of whether the agricultural land is actually used in accordance with economic programmes, and whether the support obtained on this basis is invested. The introduction of order is important in order to reward farmers who work fairly, who do responsible work for all of us because they produce food and so that they can continue to do so in the future. The system of points proposed by this law follows the specifics and strategies of agriculture, but I propose that the system be improved and balanced in order to make a clear distinction between the CAPs and crafts, as well as legal entities, and that small, young and domestic farmers can clearly and unequivocally guarantee the right to use state agricultural land. The data suggest that the average size of the agricultural holding in Croatia is 10 hectares, almost 70% are below 5 hectares, and 1% are about 100 hectares and more. As food production depends also on the ownership of agricultural land, it is certainly necessary to make efforts to make it round and through the process of selling the lease of state and private agricultural land. I expect this law to help the agricultural land allocation process be swift, transparent and fair and guarantee that local farmers are securely available to this basic resource for food production that will retain them in their homes and preserve rural areas. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67922	Replica Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67923	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Petyr, here are a few things that I think are important to be heard in this high house. You are the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, you have made an extraordinary effort not only in the adoption and preparation of this law, but in general the laws that we have passed in this year and a half and what I have gained, I am also a member of the Committee on Agriculture, and I understand that from the words of the Minister, and also from the Secretary of State and one and the other to this article. 16. perhaps which causes the most controversy in all of this, which includes those who are very important that we will definitely have until the second reading a text that may read differently than it does in this first reading and in fact shows how much the Ministry of Agriculture is interested in solving one of the Croatian agricultural problems and moving on with what we call more, stronger and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67924	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67925	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Ivanovic. Well, you also saw on the board that there are different views on the same articles of the law not only of us as representatives in HS but also of the farmers that we have involved in the work of our session to hear their opinion. I think it is good for everyone to make their views known through this debate because we all represent those citizens who chose us, and surely we as members of the Committee on Agriculture and Croatian farmers, and in that sense we get feedback from them in which they think the system needs to be arranged. It is not easy to adopt rules or criteria when talking about art. 16 which is now being solved by the score system. And you have made some suggestions and I have said them to other MPs, I hope that in the end we will get through dialogue a law that will be just and that will allow agricultural land to come into the hands of indeed those real farmers. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67926	The individual debate of respected Goran Ivanovic follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67927	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, esteemed employees of the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, maybe here's a few introductory words first. Perhaps it is better for all the Croatian public not to listen to some of the things being said here, incorrect data, to present things that are absolutely incorrect, which will essentially not improve Croatian agriculture. Croatian agriculture is something that did not occur in the 1990s, Croatian agriculture is something that exists for 100 years, 1000 years in this area and I think that it is something that we cannot take too lightly. This law or these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land are, in my opinion, an important document for several reasons, because we have to solve what has been standing for years and is not being solved. We can look for causes, they're divided. The state can pass laws, but if they do not apply, if we do not have interested actors, and here they were very important JLS and through this debate we have seen that there are JLS leaders who have implemented a programme of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, they have had no problems, but there are also JLS that have done absolutely nothing about it. Why? I don't know if they shouldn't have, if they didn't want to, but they didn't. This law significantly speeds up these processes and clearly says if you do not spend within 3 months then you will be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, but you will be left without income, or JLS. That's good, that's, we have to have a little bit of that ratio and carrots and beatings, I don't think we're gonna do anything without it. Here JLS is helping and very important, bypassing this time regional self-government or county and in the commission we have a member of the county, but we also have a subport of the Ministry of Agriculture we have a subport of the Agriculture Agency, an electronic approach absolutely yes. I think it's something that's reaching 21st century civilization, and there's no more excuse for someone not knowing how to handle a computer. I think that these are times that have passed and should be forgotten, and that will certainly be a much fairer and fairer way than it has ever been before. There's a lot of talk here about cheating. What kind of Croat cheats on his country? What kind of Croat is that? Was he a farmer, was he anything, if there are rules, if there are laws, why does someone need to take a hectare instead of 400 kilos of fertilizer, throw away 200. That instead of 100 kilos of wheat, he sows 50 kilos of wheat and completes 4 tons of wheat instead of 8.5 tons per hectare. What kind of man is that? So we can't put another policeman on every farmer to watch over him respecting the agrotechnics. A real farmer, and I really know real farmers, people who live on it honestly and honestly, don't deal with that kind of thing, but no, we want to discuss these right here. Let's forget about them. They are irrelevant, Croatian agriculture does not rest on them, Croatian agriculture rests on systems and small agricultural family economies, but also large systems. There is no Croatian agriculture without large systems, it must be clear to anyone who knows anything about agriculture. I'm not a farmer, but I live with farmers my whole life and listen carefully to what they say. Therefore, this Law, I think it is a good basis, that is, to amend this Law, and what I have said to my colleague, Marijana Petir, Article 16 of that law needs to be done, it needs to be arranged, there are still criteria that can be corrected and I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for her real participation in this whole thing. You've given her a lot of work, you've been listening to actors of which, after all, we're talking about here, and I think it's a good, good way to get us to what we're trying to do, and that's what I said that's more and more and stronger and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67928	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67929	Thank you, Chairman, colleague Ivanovic. Somehow during the debate, you looked at me the most, I'm not surprised at all, why is that so. So you said it wasn't agriculture since the '90s, it wasn't, but of course it's been systematically destroyed since the '90s. And not because it's almost midnight now, but if we were to discuss and until the day of judgment, dear God wouldn't help you to shed light on your eyes and figure out where all these great incentives went, because in many parts, where the most money went down, there's no agricultural production. But let's put it aside now, I'd like to replicate something else. So the fact is that in the system of agriculture we need a large and root reform, not only this state in terms of territorial reconstruction and a better control and control system, but we should design a system of vertical and horizontal integration of producers. Yes, we really need small ones, but we also need great ones, but this Law does not provide a basis for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67930	Time. Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67931	We'll all stay together as a small country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67932	I'm not so pessimistic, why? Because, let me spend some time with these people and see that these shifts happen, they may not be as big as we would like, but surely Croatian agriculture is starting to get those contours that we want. And there's still this stuff that needs to be done, but crying for spilled milk, that's just something that's not gonna get us anywhere. To regret that today there are no more PPK Valpos, which has no PIK Đakovo, which has no PIK Osijek, some other systems have come to this area which have been relatively well managed, which do well work, hire, food products, a lot of it goes into export, therefore, there are shortages in fact, I am not one to deny it, but I believe that here are a series of amendments to the Law, someone noticed that this, I don't know, is the 25th Amendment. Let it change every six months, if it's not good and it doesn't contribute to what it's intended for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67933	Dear Niksha Vukas, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67934	Here's Agent Ivanovic, you encouraged me, first you said it was good that it was going so late, because that was a lot of incorrect allegations, so I would ask you to say exactly what we said incorrectly, because first of all we talked about some improvement of the law and now you've said another sentence, says, I don't regret the PICs, okay if it's normal for you that the PICs ended the way they ended up, then I have a feeling that you really don't understand agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67935	Dear Mr. Vukas, first of all, I didn't say what you said. As far as agricultural systems are concerned, as far as agricultural combinations are concerned. I said we didn't have time to regret the time that was past, in which I wasn't involved, I wasn't, so I don't want to share that responsibility. I said some new systems came into place. Here the most important information was that the cow has 4 tits and we mantra here whenever the topic is agriculture, then we talk about how many cows there are tits and how much abandoned land there is in the Republic of Croatia and how many hectares we have, and in fact no one will go to the Statistical Office and see how much Croatia has at the moment hectares of a processed area, but we are talking from some of our own statistics so that someone doesn't like it a little bit. As for the late hour, there is no late hour in the Croatian Parliament, every hour here for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, either at half ten in the morning or at half one in the night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67936	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Ivanovic, so now you've answered a part of what I wanted to ask you, because you said a lot of incorrect allegations here were said. I just wanted to touch the part relating to irrigation, because we recently had a thematic session of irrigation that the Committee had initiated with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Embassy of the State of Israel, to hear their positive experiences, but also to get feedback on whether the projects were being implemented in Croatia, so the information that came from the Ministry and Croatian Waters pointed out that 17 projects were implemented or in the realization phase, and 27 projects are ready and waiting for the adoption of a strategic plan from which the implementation will be financed by priorities, and among them, as far as I have seen, the Sinjsko polje in Split-Dalmatia County, so can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67938	However, I can confirm to you, but here I have this table of 27 projects that are in the design phase and we have these eight projects that have been completed. Irrigation is one of the needs that will simply mark the future of Croatian agriculture, and there is no speech there. Climate change makes its own, and we can't put our heads in the sand, though. But we have another problem. It's no problem to bring a irrigation system to an alleged 5,000 acres, so just tell me who's going to handle those 5,000 acres? We have a problem here. Vegetables that are not exactly a favorite branch for people to deal with, livestock, warfare ok, but bringing water to the field is not such a big problem. It has its price, costs a certain million, but then Putting into function this land is already something else entirely. [[attack of Ante Sanader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67939	The next replica of the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67940	Thank you. You mentioned that we should not talk in this high house about those who cheat, however, I would like to hear your opinion about those situations that have been going on for 10 or 15 years, where ten of them would sit at the competition and share an entire atar. And then we got big, powerful farmers who had 200, 300, 500 acres, and everyone else couldn't even get a piece and eventually the ones who had to move out of Slavonia. Do you need to talk about them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67941	You should. I don't have that problem, as far as I'm concerned. Whoever was cheating, who was stealing, that's why there are institutions of the Croatian state and I have no problem here at all, but I will repeat again, this law wants to put an end to exactly that kind of practice, through a completely different approach and filling of competitions that go in electronic form this time and in another case through the credit system. So, the criteria are tightening up, I think that the maneuvering space for such is slowly narrowing down, unfortunately that in practice there was, absolutely yes, crazy would be who would close their eyes, then I say again, it won't take us, something that happened, let's watch that these things don't happen anymore, we're much smarter, we're more mature, and I think we can go through this kind of debate, especially through the discussion of the profession, we're just politicians, some other people are dealing with agriculture, they need to ask them what ways to protect those holes that just criminals can't get to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67942	Next individual debate, respected Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the last 12 years, in the last 3 mandates that I have had the honor of being the municipal head of my municipality, it seems to me that one six times has changed or passed a new law on state agricultural land, I don't know how long before some of the figures we've listened to, it's not quite as much, but it's a lot of times, it is. And this certainly brought great uncertainty to farmers, especially because their investments are long-term, and thus the return of these investments is long-term. And I hope it's finally going towards the final changes and making one stability system, I think that's what farmers need first. And it should be mentioned that recent years have taken a step forward and it should be welcomed and commended to the Minister for Associates, as a member of the opposition I have no problem with that, if what is good should be said is good. But I also expect some of our proposals to be accepted, if they are good, if they are correct for the good of the whole country and our farmers. Because I think it's in everyone's interest to raise our domestic agricultural production, and the rest of us, I think we're proving that, and we need to say that they still don't understand, because it's a lot, it's a fact that a lot of money has been invested, especially since entering the European Union, and somehow agriculture has fallen to us, agricultural production in its battery. And there needs to be more power brought in to make it right. But I'm going to focus a little now on the problems of farmers in Istria, I'm not invited to talk about other parts of the country, because I just don't know the situation, what needs to be done for farmers in Istria, it's first to determine the single prices of agricultural land according to the area and the rating category at the state level, thereby preventing mixing with the price of agricultural land and with a kind of maybe discrimination. Secondly, it seems to me that the Minister has adopted the necessary regulation in accordance with the law. I'm talking about bonites, but it's clear that because of the lack of pedological maps, it's not possible to carry out bonitation, marking P1, P2 of the land category, because simply there are no cards. So our proposal, it may not be a matter of this Law, but here you are representatives of the Ministry, to try to find out whether through yours, whether through another ministry provides funding for new pedological maps, and that those within the shortest possible time, then we will have the right, I may not know, but for now I do not know that it is in the making, Thirdly, the law prescribed the possibility that extremely valuable P1 and valuable P2 farm land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is located outside of the production technology units which are in the function of agricultural production can be sold on the basis of a public tender for catastrian land particles owned by a country of surface to one hectare for the continental area and area up to 0.2% of hectares for coastal areas. So our proposal is to increase the area to one hectare, as well as to the rest of the continent and avoid another kind of discrimination because this is about agricultural land, not tourism, not construction, exclusively agricultural. Farmers should be given the opportunity to produce on equal terms in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and let's punish the mechanics, as my colleague said. And lastly, the purchase price for agricultural land sale in accordance with Article. The 59th law shall be paid once within 30 days of the date of conclusion of the contract. Some of the farmers, especially the smaller ones, said whether it might be possible to introduce more payment options. It's not some large area, but the small area is accumulated and it may have been possible through a few wars or through I don't know until the first generation with some delay, etc., to see that they are less burdened by the buyers of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67944	Replica one, esteemed Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67945	Thank you. Here's colleague Daus, you should really point out once again, and that's what you did in your debate touched the facts of the agricultural land price, meaning the agricultural land sold by the Republic of Croatia in public tenders and its initial price derived from the e-real system. When we compare it with other parts of Croatia, we come up with incredible differences in initial prices. I wonder if you think that price is fair or is it really something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67946	Thank you. As I said before, there's a kind of discrimination and I think it's clear to me that maybe the rest of the country gets the impression that I don't know in the coast should cost more, but I repeat, it's strictly agricultural land. Absurd is actually even bigger because the Slavonic black country can feed an Istrian flash or, or some surface that we have really modest, modest soil for agricultural production. And here's one comparison to a hectare of maybe 5 tons of wheat, in Slavonia there will be 8 to 9 tons of wheat, and the multiple price is more expensive by square of agricultural land in Istria, a state pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67947	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67948	Comrade Daus, we have more and more problems with savages doing huge damages, huge problems for our farmers both on crops and on multi-annual crops, even to these measures that some are planning to give up or see no more sense of farming, and that is the topic to be talked about and, of course, to work on that problem as quickly and as effectively as possible, so I'm interested in how you comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67949	Thank you very much. Yeah, that's what I mentioned earlier in the presentation on behalf of the club in order not to be picturesque but literally express myself to, in the rural area of Istria, we've already had rabbits and deer pets, and what's even more worrying is that the big game, beasts, wild pigs, have started to enter no longer in the suburban but also in the urban settlements themselves, and that's one big problem. But what you've said since it's agriculture, that they're destroying crops, and we've really already heard from a few farmers who are seriously thinking, serious farmers who are seriously considering whether to continue farming. There needs help from all of us, both local and regional and state administrations because it's healed by all vegetation, more and more forests to the houses themselves, the game comes to its natural oasis, to the feeding grounds, to, in fact, the agricultural areas that people do, and the forests are their immediate natural cover.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67950	Next replica, the esteemed Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67951	As far as I know about pedological maps at the Faculty of Pedology there are practically, the whole of Croatia is based on the profiles that were worked on the ground, so you can ask for a pedological map for any city or municipality in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67952	Thank you very much. I didn't know that, if it's so nice to meet you. The information I have received is that it is missing yet, I don't know if all of Croatia is covered, if it is good and I welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67953	Next individual debate, respected representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67954	I thank Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Ministers together with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land defines a subject that always in itself raises tensions and makes recommendations that in the political public between us who are responsible for the adoption of the legislative framework, in the professional public, but also among people on the ground our acquaintances, neighbors, friends, agricultural producers, those we meet every day, many of those small farmers, but also large agricultural systems. In addition to the fact that agricultural land is the basis for food production, it is not necessary to say how important food production has always been and will be, of course, the basic needs and certain types of land to survive at all, and today is an even more relevant topic on the production of healthy food, of course teaching on the development of the food processing industry and its effects on the development of the economy of a particular country. In addition to this function of course, agriculture has that basic existential function in rural development, many small farmers have a basic activity to survive. Agricultural production is a first-class demographic issue in rural development and, of course, before this law is one task to balance the production of food that already passes into industry and this basic first-class demographic issue. We heard this in previous discussions, that we need to find the right balance between large systems and small agricultural producers. It's not an easy task. Of course, our agriculture should be more modern, better, more competitive but have that other function to keep small people in the rural area. As before the law, the task is large, demanding and before the minister, along with her co-workers who have done great work so far, and there is also a big job ahead of them. The proposed amendments to the law of this which was adopted in 2018 are going in a good direction, there are many things to praise, it is seen that in fact the entire team in the ministry has been closely monitoring what has been going on in these last three years on the ground, which have been a problem and how to get there, how to improve the system of governance of state agricultural land. There's a lot of things that I'd like to say, and here's a few I'll count. What is exempt from the county from the entire process of O.K. We'll speed something up. An e-rent system is being introduced, excellent, commendable, excellent. It is possible to prescribe guarantees on notified tenders, whether by cash deposit, by some kind of bank guarantee, anything in this regard. The ratio of artificial throats per hectare not to take into account agricultural land held by farmers in the lease of private persons goes hand in hand again to those livestock producers. But again when we talk about that system of score, that article 36, which is the subject of measurement. Of course, we're all looking at him somehow. I think it's generally good that we're going to the points system, but I also think there's room for further reflection on some things. So far, the owners, this is not clear to me whether they think here and those who are so to say under quotes violently or wildly once entered state agricultural land and then managed to expose their situation, whether they would be rewarded with an additional 20 points. I don't think they should be. Sectoral conditions are in order to further encourage livestock production, milk production which is somehow the queen of basic agricultural production. The residence or headquarters of the bidders, i.e. domicillivity, consider further treatment of structural forms between the OPG, crafts and the company. I don't think it's that important. It may be better to resort to a solution that now stands out in Article 36 of the Law that speaks of small, micro, medium and large producers, to concentrate on small and micro, whether they were OPG, crafts or company. I believe that a stronger score should be made for the position of bidders who are in the field of units of local self-government that call the competition, and for others practically without additional points. I think it's okay to further valorize those whose agriculture is a fundamental activity. For example, in Article 13 there, paragraph 4 where it is said that it is possible to extend the lease contract, I may not know who is making the decision whether the ministry or the city might prescribe it further. In paragraph 10, when it says in the calculation of the maximum, I hold that it is necessary to look at all the land that the agricultural producer has for use, not only after 2018 that they received from the tenders I didn't get everything. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67955	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marin Piletic. Just until midnight, we interrupt the debate at midnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67956	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister will be here 30 seconds by midnight. After all these discussions, allow me, as an incorrigible optimist, to conclude at midnight in the Croatian Parliament, not everything is so gray, and my god is black in Croatian agriculture. And according to the current Agricultural Land Act of 2018, units of local self-government who received the authority as they would receive the power and under this proposed law could and should have come out to meet their farmers, bring programmes in time and start tendering either for rent or for sale. There are some bright examples. There is a city in Slavonia which, despite the pandemic and the crowns and lockdowns so far has launched 5 competitions for the availability of state agricultural land. Through three completed tenders, 285 ha of state agricultural countries were placed in office. 160 bidders in 3 tenders, over 800 offers. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, not a single complaint. When someone says here in the Croatian Parliament that the state agricultural land is shared at cafe tables I invite you to come see how it is done. 800 bidders, no complaints. Right now they're in phase, so the procedures are two contests, one for rent, one for sale. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone else listens and hears at midnight in the Croatian Parliament of all these, then the competitions held in the city of Novska 50% of the area belonged to young entrepreneurs. I repeat, in so far-winded hectares 50% have belonged to young entrepreneurs. This year, Joseph married and lives on agriculture, Nikola quit his job in a company where he had a good salary and applied, so farming, he got land and fed his family out of it. Goran sent his first of three kids to college this year. He's been living off agriculture his whole life. It is neither big nor got land on the table, but according to all the bids so far, it has achieved its right. With all this commission and people who work in local self-government units determine differences in areas. Procedures have also been initiated for the payment of fees without the right to use, revenues both for the state and for the county and for the city in accordance with the revenues from the state agricultural land and the sharing of those assets. In the last year after the town of Novska hired a farmer over 100 ha private parcels was put into operation. Don't forget that over 60% of the former Novska municipality area was occupied, that we were freed in Blest, that in 5 years most of the state and private agricultural countries were healed, and that all that we do is do with optimism. Because if any of the farmers, from someone who thinks about farming listens to this debate ma free millions, which through, therefore, measures of rural development and through a system of incentives and through land offered no one would start farming in the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, in Novska, over 50% of the country has ended up in young farmers, people who are 20s, 30s, who are creating their families. But the easiest thing to say is they didn't get a young country, they went somewhere. Well, that's not true! The minority is gone, most of them are left, living on their grant. Of course we feel sorry for every single person who left the Republic of Croatia. Let's not get on with the floscules here. This is a very serious law, and this proposal goes towards speeding things up and making it possible for our host population to have more state-owned agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67957	We have a replica, a respected Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67958	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, at first, I'd just like to point out why there's no complaints? Because the damaged, or applicants do not have the right to appeal, there is no possibility of a legal remedy. They have the right to a court dispute that is very long-term, which requires great costs, and at the end of it all suffers from production. That's the first thing. It's another thing. I wonder what your position is about providing services and treating? We at the Social Democrats Club are aware of the facts of an ever older population still and only dealing with agriculture as well as the inability to educate. And we think it would be the smartest and best to give them help. Do not increase the costs of their production, further complicate and such a burdened system. And are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67959	I don't know what you're aware of, Comrade Nikolic, but what you said is absolutely wrong. I wish what you said was the result of the experience you had at your disposal for state agricultural land. I'm afraid we'd be devastating results if we could see how much you've advised the country's agricultural land and farmers. It's not true that there were no complaints. It was therefore possible for all our farmers to express their complaint, therefore the solution made by the Commission for the implementation of the public performance. You speak entirely incorrect information. There is a procedure where applicants can contact the Ministry of Agriculture and therefore complain about the final solution. That wasn't with us. I don't know why you use these, so rhetorical figures, and you throw yourself at flossules when that's not true. Of course, there is a legal remedy, of course, that the ministry can annul the commission's decision and the city council that finally made the decisions. Of course we can do a review. That's not what happened. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67960	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Roman Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67961	Article 238 has been injured. I'm aware of the warnings, but I'd recommend to the new mayor of Novska that he take a little walk around the area of Gareshnica and our Slavonia, so he can see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67962	Sinisha Jenkach next individual debate. Please! Here you go, buddy Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67963	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the fire in the debate, no matter what 12 hours, it's still going on. So here's the point of proving that there's still a minister present here, and I congratulate her on that. And I congratulate my colleague Marina on everything he's brought out to the state land since we don't have a lot of state-owned agricultural land in New Marof, but that's why we have a lot of small farmers, a hobby of farmers dealing with various forms of agriculture, using various pesticides, and that everyone's talking about land today, I'm going to have a little bit of pesticides just to break up the monotony. So the law so far shows some shortcomings, and here with a new draft of the law, the current shortcomings are being eliminated. The law defines and regulates the distribution and sale of pesticides in such a way as to prescribe general conditions for who can deal with those activities, then the conditions, obligations regarding facilities, premises and equipment, general conditions for the storage of pesticides, tells of the possibility of storage of other products, prescribes specific conditions and distribution facilities. The law also stipulates that all pesticide distributors are required to enter the central records of the fitness sanitary system. Also important attention is paid to informing the public, raising awareness about the use of pesticides, which is very important, because we know that often pesticide users in some way are guided by that mantra if I put a little more will be better, and normally a little more pesticides are not good and not desirable. So education is very important and desirable and it is spent every 5 years and should be spent and can be said even more quality to warn people who use pesticides about the dangers and excessive use of pesticides and inappropriate use of pesticides. The law is particularly committed to pesticides and thus to maintaining such devices, which is very important because often the devices are both old and unquality. Special attention shall also be paid to the use and use of pesticides as well as to the use of air pesticide sprays which are generally not permitted but may be exceptionally authorised in special cases. Professional pesticide users must also notify the public before treatment with pesticides and respect restrictions on pesticide use in order to protect water and the aquatic environment. The Law also protects bees and other pollinators and prohibits the use of pesticides at the time of the flowering of agricultural cultures. They are also obliged to inform professional pesticide users before each use of the same beekeepers' alliance and Commissioner for keeping records of beekeepers and beekeepers and bees' cadastres by county and bees' associations. It is also detailed how the handling and storage conditions of pesticides, pesticide management, their packaging, residues that remain behind pesticide users. So it is about improving the law and improving the legal framework of national legislation that is regulated by the use of pesticides, and I hope that this amendment of the law will improve the use of pesticides as I mentioned and draw attention to those who use pesticides to use it properly, etc., etc. I would only look at the short lines and some comments here are purely informatively working, it was mentioned in some discussions of the paying agency in agriculture. What my colleagues may not know seems to me to have been signed yesterday, and the addresses of 41 farmers came to mean 55 million kunas from the rural development measure 4, measure 5, measure 6 so congratulations to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency for the well-done work and for the realization of everything drawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67964	Time. The next individual debate was respected by Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67965	Thank you, Vice President... the question of Croatia's future is also very important for demographic revitalisation in the rural area, which is the fundamental and most important resource in food production. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] Living in the countryside and farming is one of the conditions and a transparent allocation of state agricultural land. This Act on Agricultural Land, which is in force, clearly has a number of shortcomings that we have faced during the implementation of the agricultural land available in the possession of the Republic of Croatia. The first and basic slowdown is also by units of local self-government which have not made a programme available to agricultural land, so deadlines for issuing opinions on programmes and decisions on selecting the most favourable bidders, monitoring economic programmes, all possible administrative burdens and all other circumstances that have really made it difficult for the state agricultural land to be made available. These amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act allow for an efficient, faster and more transparent implementation of agricultural land availability. One of the most important criteria for exercising the right of the competition championship is the lease. The lease is the introduction of a score system which I personally welcome as the head of the local self-government unit and as a parliamentary representative. Our cattlemen should finally reach the country's domicile OPGs and crafts, young and educated OPG carriers and craftsmen and other farmers. It is important to point out that these changes and additions are accompanied by bidders and their resources, not by economic programmes containing wishes and greetings. It is prescribed that within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act, units of local self-government must adopt available programmes and, within 3 months, public leases for free surfaces must be opened. No more maximum surface area in the programs, but units of local self-government can determine areas in public tenders. Countys are excluded from giving an opinion on programmes and on a decision to choose the most favourable offers, and this is a reduced procedure for 45 days. The electronic exercise of a tender that speeds up procedures shall be introduced. The lease deadlines are 25 and 15 years with the possibility of an extension for the same period. One of the very important provisions of the Law is the setting of bail for the participants of the competition and here we get serious and responsible bidders and thus we speed up procedures, and not like so far what has happened to some cadastral particles of example 50 cadastrian particles times 50 bidders that is 2 and a half thousand offers, never ends to be done. The newspaper is also that sales have priority for the previous owner and owner of land that borders, which is the rounding of agricultural land. Provisions on temporary use have been deleted which was not good, because they have been operated by more or less manipulaters. The obligation to deliver or develop an economic programme which is an integral part of the economic programme in the contract, and the control of the economic programmes by the Ministry and the units of local self-government, shall be prescribed. Here it is prescribed that, instead of the agricultural director, a JLS official who is involved in the job description. Penalties for the unauthorized use of state agricultural land and penalties for not carrying out an annual report on the implementation of the economic programme have also been prescribed. A lot of this is good for these amendments and the amendments to the laws are prescribed and arranged, and for the purpose and aim is to speed up the availability of agricultural land, but I also suggest that some provisions should be developed a little bit more, for example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 31st century 10. add that to maximum... the lease includes all the areas of state agricultural land that a single natural or legal person has been leased in all the previous tenders carried out, not just since 2018, so that we do not get land that already has 50, 100 hectares. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 36. in the case of the title of the public tender for the lease for St. 1. as working and employment conditions, the data for the tenderers shall be calculated by 2 or 3.g. which precedes the publication of a public tender, not that for the year ahead, because some will hire someone tomorrow, and then those bidders who are more serious and who have so far employees will be suspended. As the real championship of cattlemen, we bind them to conditional throats per hectare, and we don't commit anything to warlords. This should be considered, and also in the course of the lease, it should be installed in the provision that the applicant to a public tender should have a farm in accordance with the rules on construction or on illegally built buildings, and not to keep cattle under the clear sky And he gathereth nothing but incentives, and let the poor beast wash the rain, and roast the sun. [[Intruder: Time]] And finally, I support these amendments and additions to the laws for which Minister Vukkovic and her team spent a lot of working days and months to make enable faster and more transparent availability of state agricultural land. [[Intruder: Time]] Please consider these recommendations and suggestions until the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67966	Here's your replica, Rose Wolftail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67967	Dear fellow Zmaic, I am interested in your opinion on whether this situation that we are coming to with these changes and additions is fair now. You know that some municipalities back in the 10 years decided to sell their Ataris, so land owned by the Republic of Croatia were sold. Now they're allowed to compete in competitions in neighbouring municipalities, and that's how we're actually going to jeopardize those where the land wasn't sold, he gave it to you okay, because you're the chief I want to hear your attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67968	Well, here's a thank you, co-worker Rose, we're familiar with the problem, and you were a community chief a few years ago where we participated exactly the same thing about the Agricultural Land Act. So, the people who are currently dealing with the team will be cut off, and I hope that this ministry headed by our minister will still find a solution that these people don't stay away because there's a lot that's been sold so far, and now they're going to go on lease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67969	Next individual debate, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Ministers with associates. Here I am pleased that today we can discuss this amendment and the addition of laws that will certainly be more effective in making the land available to state agricultural land that is leased or sold, which will act as an abandoned agricultural land and that will maintain that land and allow for further land processing and its efficiency in the incomes that come from it. We believe that you have done everything to make this law as flexible as possible to those who are engaged and living on agricultural production. By reading and reading all those items, we see that from the past law only 340 JLS have only developed a program and received consent from it since 555, which is not exactly something to praise, so I believe that there is a rabbit in that bush that should be attached to the amendments and additions of this law. What I want to point out is that maybe it's good to say what I also pointed out in the replica, which is that we have certain things that are not covered by this law, and I would like them to be, until the next reading to see the possibilities and to be in art. 13th in St. 2. is placed where the programme is written, two exceptions are, in fact, from these tendering forms which are defined to be exceptionally from St. 1st of this article, agricultural land owned by the country which is intended to return and other purposes are being leased by a public tender to strictly place return and unsettled property relations on state land that remained after the failed peaks, which is an example in my county, and I can say that by collecting all of them came to 6000 hectares of unprocessed areas that they would like and would like to put into office and allow farmers to produce their products and to live on them. What might yet need to be pointed out in this law that it may not be good to bid with a price that is twice as high as offered as it was in the previous law. So, we can't go to get as much as possible, the goal is for the country to produce the best products, to be processed, processed and to bring to our farmers, but also for the natural persons, as well as for the companies to bring profits, but we don't have to compete who will give more because there are those calculators who will enter the contest and give a pointless price for land to just achieve maybe income from incentives and nothing else calculated with that land and maybe sublet it which we haven't achieved many times or our inspections or procedures to remove such illegal actions. I think the double amount of the initial price should be the limit, and those other categories you listed as dapaca. What I commended is that you included Croatian defenders who participated in the Homeland War, who created the Croatian state, their children of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, perhaps there we can raise the number of points to at least 10 and not to modest 5. Here are my suggestions that might contribute to further improving this law. These three items I have said are certainly not preceding anything but only further improving this good legislative proposal for these amendments and additions, and I have seen that there are also such ways of addressing the Law on Public Consulting in the observations that have arrived. Otherwise, I think a step has been made out of the past law, and this is an even stronger and better addition to the law that will contribute to an even better functioning of the state agricultural land which is in the lease, which is in the sale. And this article 16 that needs to be done a little bit because of these things we have on the ground. And I believe that's how he'll be perfect in his application. I think that and what you put in the county no longer gives consent They have a representative that's very good. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] All in all, here are my comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67971	Thank you. Next is an individual debate respected by Dalia Oreshkovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Final hearings. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement esteemed Ružica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67972	Thank you. So, just a second to find my end-exposure part. So, I remind you, the state land was not long ago owned by our grandparents, peasants, farmers, cattlemen. Because at the time of the former system everyone who had land had cattle. It's owned by people who lived on the results of their work, and then the former system forced them to take the land away from them, and it's now state. Although Croatia was killed as a country in a war with an unorganised market without the stock market of agricultural products, without hidden support, with a reduced envelope of direct support in agriculture, without marketable commodity reserves with very few strategic stock reserves and with all the losses of agricultural policy thanks to persistent work and the pawning of our agricultural producers is still ready to produce food for its population. It is very important to preserve the efficient agricultural economies that are the backbone of our agriculture, and these are our family holdings from the register of taxpayers who process so says statistics I Googled 331262 ha from the archod system which represents only 28.8% of the agricultural land entered in the archod system. I remind you that there are as many as 71.2% of agricultural land left outside the taxpayer's register. In modern agriculture preferred by old EU members, income from the economy is diversified to 3 levels. First and basic income from primary agricultural production, then income from renewable energy sources in the bioeconomy concept on the agricultural economy which our farmers can still imagine. And the third income from non-agricultural activities such as rural tourism, municipal works and various service activities, which is not recognised in Croatia until after the adoption. This type of income structure is necessary to provide agricultural holdings in the Republic of Croatia that are effective, i.e. registered in the Register of taxpayers. This is a prerequisite for profiling and quality restructuring of land policy, which should be consensually linked to the level of each agricultural holding, and at individual level access to functional strengthening of the CAP, crafts and micro-entities as basic functional units of modern Croatian agriculture. The share of livestock in developed European countries is 20 and more percentage points higher than Croatia. In order for Croatia to achieve a satisfactory level of competitiveness of domestic agriculture, it is necessary to increase the share of livestock production in the total value of agricultural production, as products from the livestock sector also mean products with added value, i.e. those that convert low-value products, plant production into high-value meat products and meat processing products. Furthermore, since Croatia's entry into the EU, we have recorded extremely negative levels of self-sufficiency in all key meat markets, so both beef, pig and chicken, which puts domestic consumers in an uninvited position where they depend on the wave of unquality imports from abroad. This year there was a dramatic rise in prices of raw materials on the world market, as well as in Croatia. Since the beginning of the year, cattle farmers have been running costs rapidly, and on the other hand, they sell their products below the price because they are offered at dumped prices on the common market. We know all this, but we're still leaving farms with dairy cows and loans to build these farms without available land for a long time. For the end, I would only ask all those present to support those who work, who are already producing, who are already keeping their own space, who produce healthy food, provide us with milk, meat, homemade eggs and bread from our day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67973	The final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club was respected by Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67974	Here is a respected one tonight we have constructively discussed two laws in the first reading and amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and the Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides where we have presented opinions, proposals, praises and failures and all in order to make these laws more effective. We have heard a lot about the amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act tonight, so effective implementation of the agricultural land availability procedures will be achieved, and all in order to increase agricultural production, to create greater added value in agricultural production, to put into operation abandoned agricultural land and to further maintain it. The objective of making and adopting these amendments and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act is to reduce administrative barriers in order to speed up the availability of agricultural land, place it in a function of abandoned agricultural land and of state agricultural land that is not in the function of agricultural production, increase productivity and create added value of production and better and more efficient control of the use of state agricultural land. The paper means... the electronic implementation of tendering for leases and implementation and the exemption of counties from procedures to create preconditions for faster and more efficient implementation of availability. A way is prescribed to identify the most favourable bidders in the tender for hire through points that give priority to livestock suppliers, those involved in agricultural production that generates added value. So far, owners who deal with a certain type of production to young and domestic farmers. The proposed amendments and amendments to the Law have been made to improve the application of the law, speed up availability, enable land allocation to those users who will be engaged in production that generates added value on state agricultural land and establish more effective control of the use of state agricultural land as well as of interest to the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, the system of education of professional pesticide users, distributors and advisers, distribution and sale of pesticides, information to the public and raising awareness of the risks of pesticide use, application, handling and storage conditions of pesticides, administrative and professional surveillance and inspection. The law also regulates the use of pesticides from the air and informing the public of the use of the same, specific measures to protect the aquatic environment and drinking water and the application of pesticides on public green areas and adapts to the Strategy from field to table. We of the Croatian Democratic Community Club support these two very important laws in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67975	Final debate on behalf of Representatives' Club Mosta Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67976	Good morning, everyone watching this. Comrade Djakic, he's asleep. What would you say for a minute? The law on agricultural land is important and frequent changes speak of how many years of state or something near there we have so many legal changes, which means every year we change the law. I would personally like this law to have some shift to manage state land and all the land in the Republic of Croatia on agricultural matters, but the fact is that today, when we have the collection of fertilisers, I and I don't know what 100 kilos is now, 500, 600 kuna, when we have the collection of all the energy, when an export lobby is brought in, import lobbys have led to them not being paid to hold a chicken because the egg cannot be sold domestically. Because under the cover of a fresh proper import lobby they bring on shelves and with milk, and with everything. What do we have to do? We need to revise all the investments that the state, European funds, incentives, local self-government and all and we need to underline what is happening, which is why we do not have a significant increase in agricultural products that is a key issue. Today, when we look at agricultural land, when we talk about agricultural land, about the distribution of agricultural land until we allow people to live in rural areas, then I think we're bringing something that might be complementary to something. And that's good, but that someone lives on agriculture in Slavonia... is a very small number, unfortunately very small. I wish it were different. When we talk about cereal, we also invest a lot of incentives. Unfortunately, our people need grains, and they're too expensive to produce. Why? Because we invest in the production of cereals, at the end of this grain is exported. And our farmers who need to buy imports and, of course, collect the production of eggs, milk... and that's a fact. Is there some minister's possibility that if someone is encouraged to produce cereal that they cannot export it, and the need for a domestic market? We've got that problem, too. So the possibilities we have need to discuss. I would only say in the end that 700 thousand hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, a very small number of watered fields, a very small one. More and more we have an increase that's the truth of agricultural land mostly karst pastures, more and more incentives and production stagnates, so somewhere we're wrong. If we give hectares to someone to make meat, and those cows are gone, there's no hero, so we're wrong somewhere. Somewhere we're wrong, here's so many of my few observations. I hope the Minister will at least appreciate something or give an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67977	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Marija Vučković.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67978	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like first to thank you for the many comments, suggestions, analyses that you have made and the ones that you have made here. And you won't mind if I look back at a few thesises that I have to call floscules and that don't have a foundation in any statistical data or fact, at least I didn't come across, and I'll apologize if I'm speaking wrong. Therefore, the state agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia according to all available data does not have 700,000, our estimates are that 460,464 are the last of which is guaranteed 290,000 hectares under approved programmes, and it is estimated that there are still 170,000 hectares in the processing programme. In doing so, 155,000 hectares are used under long-term contracts or concessions, 50 per temporary contract, about 50 per temporary use contract. I'll try to take a brief look at the fundamental remarks or suggestions. So Mrs Dragana Jeckov's parliamentary representative made a series of remarks within which she would have singled out, so I concluded that it was necessary to consider the fairness of the weights of the individual points, to further consider domicileness and to consider the provisions relating to the maximum. I will here confirm that the Ministry of Agriculture will certainly consider the remarks concerning both fairness and justice, and also the remarks relating to the criteria related to orderly ownership and good management, which is the minimum share of 30% of direct payments in total revenues. Just to be clear, we will consider it, but it has most of the right farmers in Croatia. Direct payments are not all income support, IACS measures are not included, and in this denominator they enter and support. I don't find it restrictive for small farmers, but we'll consider it. Parliamentary representative Vesna Vucilović made an observation regarding the identification of cultures, the possibility of determining certain cultures on agricultural land, depending on the characteristics of soil, production, tradition. We predicted it. We wrote in, it seems to me Article 31 that.../incomprehensible/... that the unit of local self-government will determine culture, that it can determine culture depending on so far, on present crops in culture, or whether it is an area under irrigation plans or covered by public irrigation infrastructure. We were very careful because it happened to us, that we could not, by some regulations, link livestock to warfare, which would be desirable, and it happened rarely to us, but it happened to us, and we do not need some cattleman to get a land where the protected vineyard is present and we prevent it from doing so by these provisions. The possibility of political criteria has also been mentioned many times. With this bill, and that is certainly his advantage completely, there is no room for discretionary decisions. Of course, the weights of certain weights are to be considered, so the law is passed. After 2 discussions, after 2 consultations and of course here between 2 readings. As for the value of agricultural production of declines and everything a lot of talk about in the public, I can only see what is documented is the Agriculture Strategy adopted in 2002 that speaks several times, find it on the Internet that agricultural production began to fall immediately in the early 1980s, the '80s not of the '90s. It's '98. I'm going to say exactly 12 billion, 198 million kuna, with 12% lower than agricultural production in '91. A year, and in '92. the agricultural production was twice as small as '91. and it is clear that the migration of the population, the destruction of war, and after that everything that has happened in certain areas has been linked to emigration, desertion, the transition to the forest surfaces having a crucial impact on that figure. But the exact figures are 30 billion and so on. Regarding the observations concerning the possibility of using digital technologies, e-rents and such by Croatian farmers, I would point out here the need not to underestimate them. First, a single request for support has been submitted for years and has been submitted by 110,000 Croatian farmers. We started the process of building a single control system, at the end of 2019 its first phase ends, we tried to release the possibility of using a digital signature with an electric agricultural card. The electronic agricultural card was requested by 50,000 farmers, some more than 40,000 of whom already took over, and in the first trial year more than 7,000 Croatian farmers used the possibility of digital signature. They are not the ones to underestimate even though their age structure is too high and this is the fundamental problem of Croatian agriculture. Mr. Bulj has repeatedly stated that the greatest potential is agricultural land. Agricultural land is a huge potential, but the greatest potential of every country is its people I want to make clear. As regards my participation in previous laws, I, as State Secretary, was responsible for the operational programmes of maritime and fisheries, the rural development programme, but I am part of this Ministry of Agriculture that developed the 2018 Agricultural Land Act. However, although I did not work on it and he brought in a number of positive shifts, many valuable units of local self-government have published tenders, and much has been done to address the situation, to address the problems of the distinction with public and water good, with the forest-economic base and I thank all those units of local self-government because it is easier to implement, based on their work, certain changes which, if we should be able to remove something that we have seen and which should be removed. As far as the karst pastures are concerned, we all know that in 2015 large agricultural areas of karst pastures in ARCOD are allowed without any contracts. It is a problem that has plagued us all these years, where there are now more than 78 thousand conditional throats on the Croatian crucible. We try to resolve this in dialogue, because we need these people, these people are the guardians of the space and we have since the first competition I announced at the Conference on Break in October 2019, when I speak to me of Croatian forests because they are responsible for it, so we have spent nine contests, 6 thousand hectares we then had under the contract of 80 thousand as much as there were in the ARCOD of karst pastures. Today we have slightly more than 40,000, and the 9th contest is being processed and there will be 12 thousand acres. And what we are doing now is a development plan for extensive livestock farming and an action plan for organic agriculture because there is a gap between assigned areas and support and between what we would like and what is related to production. It's not just me that's getting rid of the controls. This gap also removes planned investments, analyses of missing slaughterhouses, processing facilities, and we do all that, and the Croatian public and parliamentary representatives will receive insight by the end of 2021. About your remark, Mr. Bull, about the moratorium that you were looking for him, so I'm gonna say now you've been looking for him and I've done it the same way and I started doing it before you asked for him. I also seriously considered all the provisions laid down here, which relate to the situation in the Croatian livestock industry, which, besides support, needs to be dealt with in a hasty manner and with a fairer allocation of agricultural land. We try to do so by law, it is seen by prioritizing the points as they are given. And can it be even better? The debate will certainly affect the weights of individual weights. I would also single out proposals that have been repeated several times, which are related to the score of indigenous original breeds. That's pretty much it's an observation that we think is immediately pretty well founded. Not to be too long now. Here's what I'm going to look back on with all the important strategic issues. The Ministry of Agriculture recently opened a public invitation to the units of the regional self-government to run for the areas of co-operation that the Ministry will consider seriously with both experts and other institutions, especially with the State Geodetic Administration. And we will carry out our reform activity that applies to 18 thousand hectares of co-massed land by 2026. There's no back. If we can do that, we'll be able to combine other agricultural land. It's about irrigation. During this programming period, 17 irrigation projects have been financed through the Rural Development Programme. At the first competition, 9 surface irrigation projects are slightly more than 3,000 and 600 hectares. At the second competition, 8 projects for irrigation surfaces of 3 thousand and 300 hectares. Here someone well pointed out that in the context of agriculture and villages, the project does not only end when public irrigation infrastructure is built, but when the irrigation is actually carried out. So we planned to help our farmers and motivate them, the first competition was published in the updated plan in the first half of 2022 for all those who want to get equipment and conduct irrigation on the agricultural land they use. And we've also introduced certain additional obligations regarding the use of state-owned agricultural land. Someone here said we're late with the law. In addition to all the crises, the common organisation of the market, the presidency under extremely difficult circumstances, the birth of new national strategic acts, this has been brought or changed by the Ministry of Agriculture in the last 2 years or proposed further discussions on all the most important laws in the area of agriculture. Official controls have been brought into line with changes primarily related to the State Inspectorate, Veterinary, Food Quality, setting up the first national quality labelling system first used by apple producers and that is already on the market. Another someone mentioned eggs, other egg manufacturers and 10 days ago they got a positive solution. The third will be the producers of vegetables. The fourth category of meat, and the joyous interest of processors, means that they recognise that Croatian consumers, and we must help them to have enough purchasing power in their domestic agricultural land. As far as the Sustainable Use Act is concerned, there were no important remarks here, changes are not only technical at all, they are very serious about credentials, they refer to the protection of bees that are most important in this world for the concept of one health, human health, animal health, plant health. They refer to the reform of the phyto-information system in a way that we can track every user, and what we can't do now, that buys anywhere so we can track down a trail of plant protection and a lot of other things. It was incorrect, of course, if they had not respected the academic community's objections, I wouldn't say so. There have been a number of remarks in the electronic consultation on this law, with 151 or 2 being nominally corrected by my colleagues, but many of them repeated themselves. This Ministry of Agriculture adopted 29 in full, 16 in part, and 44 were not objections but comments without a concrete proposal, so we took them into consideration. As regards the relationship between small and large ones mentioned here, I will say that this is not a fundamental problem for Croatian agriculture, that we need everyone, and of course, in the context of the third strategic goal, this ministry needs to pay particular attention to every backbone in every economy, which is micro, small and medium-sized entities in this case in agricultural production, and that is what we do. We're the ones who made the distribution of locations between small and large farmers. We are the ones who are all the reactions, the first we are the ones who have all the market reactions in these crises worked so as to limit, for example, the number of throats or the number of hectares for which we supported, and we are here pinning individuals, OPGs in almost every criterion something more. But we are not the ones who are going to let a single criterion determine the course of the competition because it is then the fixing of the competition. We also encourage competitiveness and struggle here, and of course we will consider both justice and the weight of certain weights and each and every remark. What is more important is that some suggestions are also related to the damage caused by savages. It's a very difficult problem. We will again by the end of the year, or I think in the next month we will launch a tender for an insurance policy against savages. Unfortunately, we tried twice, no one answered, there are great risks and damages. If that is not the solution, we will consider the needs of a change regarding electric shepherds, we finance it and through 441 we finance protective fences. I think that last week I signed a decision to publish competitions for such that after meeting with representatives of the Primorje-Gorski County, but the problem will have to be solved with more activity it is obvious, not only with one or two. To keep you from getting tired of all this stuff that's been put out in the end, I'm going to look back on just Mr. Lenart's remarks, which is about the current 631 competition in which we're looking for a whole new mechanism. I understand the observation, but it should be said that we have spent the complete allocation foreseen for this programming period completely, that we have increased it, that the pathways of this allocation I think have been purchased somewhere around 1,000 tractors and that it has been a troubled age. We have considered, and even we are still considering the provision in a way that we allow used tractors because it is a small amount of money but with certain euro certificates, however, that we did not have regular funds for this measure but we are using the euro funds that are worth the rules of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme are required.../incomprehensible/... digital components and this quantitative contribution this has said almost and it had to be but we will see it all together because we are also aware that 15, what is EUR 15,000. I thank you all once again and confirm my intention to take very seriously all the remarks that have come to our proposal for a law which, after having been quite serious and long-term work with many stakeholders in this society, is an analysis, simulation, points, criteria, etc., here. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67979	Here, we have two replicas, the first is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67980	Thank you very much. Minister, you said space. Agricultural land without people is nothing. Thank you very much, so you said that agricultural land without people, the people is nothing I agree with. I agree with that, you did it again. You said the moratorium, that you led to the moratorium, and I asked for a ban on selling agricultural land because you didn't do anything but delay for two more years, and it'll be the same as in Hungary, it'll be a ban. If Croatians can't buy in Hungary, and the EU, why would Hungary have any sense in Croatia? The second is you said the karst pastures, that they are important and it's important in that space that people stay, but let them be authentic people from that space, and not someone who's never been there and gets them to break the pastures. That's why we have this increase in grasslands, agricultural land, and basically We don't have any results, no demographics, no production results. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67981	No more increases, but a few years of surface area, about 80, 81,000 acres, but a neat lease within those 81,000 acres is increased, first we'll solve it, and then we'll look further as we can increase. I didn't say space was nothing, but I said that people are the most valuable, that people are the most valuable resource. I forgot to say that these 27 projects also prepared the first phase of irrigation of the Sinjsko polje for 480 hectares, a project that will run for rural development programme in the next programming period. Without VAT, 25 million kuna or VAT is worth 31 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67982	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic. Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67983	Article 238 has been injured. Because I listen every 4 years, 5 always the same story. It's all started for the Sinj field. Here's a fellow Sanader behind you when he was mayor speaking that's county authority. I hope you're telling the truth this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67984	Warning, it's too late to warn. Dear Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Here I really hope that, as you said yourself, you will still respect some of the arguments of the opposition. One part of the debate focused on whether incentives and opportunities for renting agricultural incentives should be given to large or small farmers. So let me now say that we should give incentives to those who hire the most and pay the most in the state budget. You will agree with me, that agricultural land is too valuable a resource to give to those who in some way can be considered hunters of state incentives. The EU funds are indeed many, but their impact on the ground in some regions is not really visible. And I appeal to you this time and to you to make some changes in the surveillance and control system carried out by the competent agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67986	Thank you for your comments. Of course the surveillance and control system has an opportunity to improve from year to year, we try to do so. We get audit results and observations. But most of all, we get good grades. The audit system, if I understand you correctly, don't mind me taking advantage of this opportunity, we don't have any extraordinary agency audits, they're all regular, annual, same agencies. At this point, we don't have one, and we didn't have one last year. These are regular audits that we have to have and that information is not true that something else is happening now, new at the agency. The OLAF find mentioned is one for a contract signed in 2016. Years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-28-0.u67987	Thank you, Minister, and all of you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. with a statement of amendments. SESSION Interrupted at 01:00 an hour
