ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27296	--- unfortunately, it's 13.00 hours and we have to move to a position on behalf of the Representatives' Club and independent representatives. The first one is Mr. Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27297	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. A year and three days ago, Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake that instantly changed the lives of many of our citizens, especially those living in the northern part of Zagreb and downtown. Everyone who experienced the earthquake remembers personally that the first weeks after the earthquake were sleeping in clothes with shoes on their feet and a prepared bag with the most necessary things by the door in case there was another earthquake hoping that no snow would fall again that night. Yes, simple snow was then a problem if our elders and children had to come out in the middle of the night on the road as a representative from the area of the 2nd constituency that includes Zagreb's Dubrava and Sesvete I have visited many times the places affected by the earthquake. Unfortunately, after a year of rebuilding by the state has not yet begun. During the debate on the census yesterday, it was said that there would be a problem with the census to find some of the people at their addresses because the earthquake damaged their house. But the truth is if you want to find these people, just look for a container in the yard by the house because many people still live like that, there you'll find them nowhere to go. Yes, the state was already supposed to react and help, the reconstruction was supposed to go for it no excuse. We also see the problems of people being afraid that parts of buildings or houses will fall on neighboring houses or buildings, from the fact that many of our fellow citizens living in containers had to give enormous amounts for heating up electricity. Many citizens who have lost a roof over their heads despite the state’s rent subsidies find it difficult to find an apartment because some owners do not rent it because of the paperwork. In particular, it is a problem for single mothers with children who cannot find accommodation, and their home is no longer safe after the earthquake, until citizens who still pay for loans that have raised to solve the housing issue, and in their home they can no longer live. It's a bad situation. But there are also those who have restored or started building their home, of course, not with the help of the state but with the help of close people, but also by raising high interest loans. So other than returning loans to homes I can't live in, now they still have to make financial decisions to start rebuilding on their own, it's really sad. We all know how high taxes are paid by our citizens, how much taxes are to the state, and now that that taxpayer money is to be given to help our citizens in the midst of more force, everything stands. How much disappointment in the victims in the earthquake is there and how much apathy? And yet there was another devastating earthquake in the other part of our country, where Sisak, Petrinja, Glin, May village and many other places died. What people can hope for there when they see that not even after a year of restoration has begun in Chucherje, Dankovec, on the Medvedski bank, Mount Donjo or Lower and Upper Town. After the earthquake in Zagreb in 1880. within that one year, the good part of the damage has been resolved and the recovery has begun. Wasn't it in 2021? We don't have the knowledge and resources our ancestors had 140 years ago, do we have so much red tape and drive our system away that nothing can move? This should be a warning to all of us that we're doing something wrong. That's why I'm calling on the authorities to start rebuilding. They're already late. It's been said that the restoration will take 10 years, if we count this lost year, then it's about a minimum of 11 years. Some children with parents still sleep in containers, some of the people live with friends and relatives, and a good part of Zagreb is stuck with a tape of warning of a ban on passing so that some of the buildings do not fall on passersby. We show responsibility for the state and start rebuilding, we owe it to those who have lost their homes. But we owe it to ourselves as a society, we have to show when times are hard for this country to have the strength to rise above difficulties and do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27298	Thank you, too. ...a word before Mr. Domagoj Price spoke on behalf of the SDP. Now it's the Homeland Movement and Mr. Ante Pracchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Under the impression of a recent conflict between Mr. Rasdic, is Brajkovic a representative of the HDZ from Herzegovina? Barbaric, thank you very much. So I have to get involved in that debate. Perhaps my colleague Raspoudić is only a little too sharp when it comes to former Foreign Minister Pejcinović Buric, and now the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, she is simply an incompetent person, I attended her ignorance three, four years ago, in fact I watched on TV with a single ignorant like her. It was a respected SDP representative Nenad Stazic who was a great verbal juggler and when he found himself in the field who knew he was making a good impression, but when he entered the space of real politics where he needed to connect with history, he had no idea. And now I'm going to quote to you if I've memorized it, and I'm horrified by watching them argue with that occasion. When Mr. Stazic asks the minister would you say in the parliament of a foreign country that you have been illegally elected to your place, would it bother you and if someone in a foreign country's parliament said that our electoral system is wrong, would you consider it an internal affairs interference? Then he paused and said theatrely, I would. What's this about? The point is, Stazic has no idea what he's asking, and the unhappy minister can't answer. Of the 200 internationally recognised states, no two have such a relationship with each other as Croatia and BiH. BiH is a developing country. When we talked in BiH, I said here that often the picture says more than a thousand words. So, when we look at a photograph of the Dayton Peace Agreement, there are Alia Izetbegovic, Franjo Tudjman and Slobodan Milosevic, so do you gentlemen dearly remind whether it is a bit of a state secretary, does it remind you of the people's demarcation, how much of the demarcation of states? So much for that. There'll be time to process something else. Namely, counterpart Kristo mentioned this recently Rasdić, who has been doing well recently, referred to an interview that is Croatian television, this traitoric Croatian television, or Croatian television, controlled by the enemies of the Croatian people. This was sent to you by your colleagues from HDZ. I have a lot of friends among you. You have to get inside your head. So, Croatian Television and Department of Philosophy Faculty of Contemporary Croatian History. But TV journalist Dragan Nikolic is doing an interview with Porfirija and Caroline with the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Porfirija Peric. And Caroline and Rasdic looked back on it. So Caroline mentioned a complete unprofessionalness that stands. The breakup went to another detail, but they missed one and the other what might be most important. Porphyrius said at one point that he was healing Pope Francis's hand. I who did not tend to complete my hands would have whole his hand for one statement as if I had advised him what to say, and he said about how he was the Metropolitan of Zagreb-Ljubljanski and that he was still feeling nice here, that he was in Belgrade now and that he was actually the Metropolitan of Zagreb-Ljubljan-Belgrade and then he stopped, and his memories came up, and his brains failed and said it was the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. Well, I'm actually trying to prove that it is the most important element of the great heart and that of the first-Yugoslav Greaterness in the Serbian Orthodox Church. And that's why they're not listed in the religious community records in Croatia and that's why they don't have a constitution. Because if they were registered in religious communities, they would recognise Croatia's state and Croatian independence. Furthermore, they would lose the ability to transfer money from Croatia to Belgrade, as the Serbian Orthodox Church is financing 90% of Croatia. There'll be time to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27478	Thank you very much. Now, before I give my word any further, let me just say one thing. At the beginning of the speech there was demeaning, Mr. Prickin, please listen to me. With respect that you know that I have towards you, long-term work together, etc. There was humiliation in this House. But I have tied hands, I can't give a warning to Mr. Prkachin, because in the Rules of Procedure which is written and voted here, it says that I can only give a warning if you belittle or insult the president, me and the other MP and/or other MPs. There weren't any cases like that. It also states that by its conduct it deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. We should now define the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. Or what Mr. Bauk once called for otherwise disrupts the order of the session. It was very difficult to disrupt the order of the session here because there are barely seven or eight of us inside. So it should be clear what I can do here from this pay phone when, I'm not talking about you, Mr. Prickin let it be clear, when some MPs are calling for demeaning. There's been a misdemeanor here, and I think it's conscious, but it's not a representative, it's not a president. No, no. [[I'm sorry.]] Nothing, you don't have to think anything of me. Nothing to me. Let's move on. I will announce the next lady who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and the Voice and this is Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27547	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. On Monday, we entered the second year after the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the neighbouring counties of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorska. It's been a full year. More than 365 days and in all these 365 days, the entire government and state administration and the newly established fund together with the entire administration of the city of Zagreb managed to do one big nothing. No single wall in Zagreb and neighbouring counties has been restored because it has started to rebuild. All that's done is results are exclusively private initiatives of people. Instead of hiding in a mouse hole of shame, those who are the most responsible still mock citizens, such as Minister Horvat did with a man who said the documentation was required to report weights of 6 kg. I guess now it's become clear to everyone and the greatest optimists that since the renewal with a law like this, with a fund like this and with a government like this, there'll be nothing. Unfortunately, I said that here in the Parliament when I first saw the law. It was quite clear that he was inconclusive. I also said that because I voted against the law, not for some political reason, because it proposed a government or anything like that. I voted against it because for professional reasons it was clear to me that there was nothing since the renewal under that law, and that there was a fund whose boss is having a public argument with the minister whether or not a memo arrived or not I'm not going to waste a word. What's the emergency to do? Zagreb must finally start to rebuild. There'll be another winter, people still living in containers, and thousands of families are out of gas. First of all, it is urgent to change the Law on Reconstruction, since that dead letter on paper is of little use. He's not carved into stone, everyone has to admit he's really inconclusive and change him. We need to make it as easy as possible and shorten all procedures. At the same time, the Reconstruction Fund should simply be abolished. He doesn't serve anything, and the work he's supposed to be doing can be done by the ministry and the APN. The other thing to do is separate the renovation by category. Public buildings, more residential buildings and family houses. We didn't even need any special law for public purpose buildings, and that's when I made it clear. Their restoration could have long gone according to the laws we have. In addition, 680m euros from the Solidarity Fund came from the EU. That money is on the bill of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No one mentions him anymore, but what's not mentioned is that there's a deadline to be spent in. The renovation of more residential buildings and family houses should be taken over by a huge Zagreb administration that has enough people and capacity to do the job. The city of Zagreb has more employees than all municipalities in Croatia who together have twice the population of Zagreb. Well, here's some work for those people. It is particularly important for property-legal relations to be resolved in parallel to the renovation, not for them to be another brake. The city needs to be divided into blocks or moves and made an accurate plan and a programme to rebuild a single block, or move to make it clear what is done, when it is done and how it is done. The whole story should finally be introduced by a system, an idea of what we want to achieve and how to get there. Because this isn't a big deal right now. And I don't understand how Plenkovic, Horvat and the rest of the team are not ashamed to make statements about the whole and long-term process. They didn't do anything. In the end, perhaps most important, the reconstruction of Zagreb must not be just the recovery of the damage and the patching of the holes. The reconstruction must be the development of a new city, some parts of the city need to be completely transformed, and now is the opportunity to do so. Our beautiful white or white Zagreb City has long not been called that, it is not only because of the need but because of the long years of neglect. Now is the chance to change that, and if we don't take advantage of it, maybe the second chance will never come to us again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27548	Thank you. Ms Anamarija Blažević will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will respect the order of the session, I will not belittle anyone, and I will start on another topic that we often mention, and therefore we all know that we are all familiar with the support for the preservation of jobs for which I am glad to continue in April, which is for employers who have been affected by the economic activity due to the coronal virus and earthquake disaster. Like I said, we often mention that measure for this pay phone, so I don't want to talk about it anymore. But I want to talk about active employment policy measures in 2021. I will start with a new, or redesigned website www.mere.hr and say that since the beginning of this year the entire information, login and data processing process will be implemented online and fully digitised. In fact, we all want to reduce administrative and bureaucratic barriers both the users of a service and the service providers. If something like this has taught us about doing business, it can certainly be digitized using the new technologies that are available to us. That experience I hope we will pass on even at a time when the covid is no longer among us. So on the redesigned page you can find a series of content that will facilitate users’ applications and their first entrepreneurial steps. There are indeed a number of active employment policies there, but I want to highlight the improvements made in 2021. The most frequently used measure is self-employment support. Over the last two years, over 12 and a half thousand people have been used and around 800,000 kunas have been paid for it. It was increased to 130,000 kuna in 2021, and the novelty is now scaled and can range from 55,000 for service activities to 130,000 for processing activities. If two persons are associated with the same business entity, the aid may also amount to EUR 200 000. Another improvement is the introduction of a fixed and variable part of acceptable costs, and the promotion of innovation in green and digital transition activities through a new system of points. The fixed portion is predetermined for the initial costs of registration of a business entity, the costs of a full-time employee, and the usual running costs for the first few months of business such as the cost of bookkeeping services, the lease of space, administrative costs, advertising and the like. This fixed part is up to 40,000 for the registration of flat-rate trades, i.e. 55000 for the registration of all other business entities without the need to justify those amounts from the costs. I mentioned that system of points and in a series of elements there is one element for which you can get up to 10 points. It depends on the local self-government development index in which a business entity is established. I stress this element with pleasure because it promotes even development in our homeland, and we talked about it last night or this morning in the Croatian Parliament until the small morning hours. This is another indicator that this government is taking care of my Slavonia as well as all parts of the Republic of Croatia that need help to achieve the desired development. The next measure I want to draw attention to is support for business expansion. It shall be granted to a business entity which has already obtained support for self-employment and extends existing operations in the form of a new business unit or the development of new services, products or activities. This support for the processing industry will amount to 100 000 kuna, while it will continue to go from 55 to 75. Here is the fact that I still have limited time to mention the training measure of the workforce that is very much needed today and here is a lack of market interest, and this measure certainly has the objective of ensuring the labour force that is missing from our economy. It envisions about a billion kuna for this year for all measures and is projected to include around 25,000 people. For those who decide on their own steps in entrepreneurship, I personally want a lot of success and full-scale performance of their business plan, let their business idea become a business opportunity, and let the active employment policy measures be one of their financial resources for business. Good luck to them!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27654	Thank you. Mr. Blažević spoke on behalf of HDZ. I don't know if I said it at first in the debate that was before the pay phone was cleaned. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u27721	Thank you very much. I know that the topic of the earthquake in Zagreb is very important for our citizens of Zagreb and all of Croatia as well as everything that happened in Banovina and it is a huge problem and we need to think about it every day, give solutions because there is no movement. But I'll mention here and look back. to the short speech of the ruling HDZ club, the largest where they talked about a number of measures, entrepreneurs, the development of entrepreneurship, investment, investors, digitisation, but I hope that some of it will be and that it is not just the pre-election standard folklore that you repeat every four years as if you swallowed an old tape recorder. It's always the same story, same mantra. I would talk here about a project this government has promised through all these promises very important, and these are traffic verticals for Dalmatian Zagora. I know that the earthquake hit Zagreb, but that attitude towards and it is a disaster relation to the Dalmatian Zagora has caused much more serious damage than the Zagreb earthquake. The political relationship, the relationship of promise, the relationship of banishment of young people, here they mention the digitisation here that you gentlemen have loved from ruling to digitization we would today have an additional electronic vote and similar important things that should normally be introduced here we see and why, because of the covids. However, you simply have no intention or will do so. The key project of the blood vessel for the Cetina region, I repeat again, the most perspective area from Savudrija to Prevlaka for life. In the vicinity of Split, there are 50,000 inhabitants of Sinj Cetinski, I repeat, more than Ličko-Senj County, Cetinski Kraj, larger per area than Međimurje County. The project stopped to make some road from Vučevica to Kozjak tunnel in the roads in the Croatian road plan. I repeat again there Vice President Sanader knows where it is, there's his drills, made a four-way road of 40 million kuna and put Sinj on his tail, always on his tail. The most perspective area, the area that is the suburbs of Split with a little better infrastructure and much nicer for life than the lack of living and more pleasant life, the better living conditions just to give a little will and return at least something to that area. It's not enough to come to the Alka and the Great Lady, it's not enough and it's not enough to paint there. With very little investment, with the fast road merger project that deserves the end, it will be the most prospective area and the best for life, I repeat from Savudrija to Prevlaka. The other day, I expected it to come out whether, however, it would come out to build that road, the road of life through Dicmo, the Dicma bypass, but I'm surprised only in Dalmatia is working. in Split-Dalmatia County this roadway from Vučevica exits. If anyone was, there are no more residents, people are gone because of the difficult conditions. There's a way out of the highway, there's no one, very few older people. And now all of a sudden, Anti Sanader thought of doing a four-way road to the entrance to the non-existent Kozjak tunnel. And here the Cetinski end of 50,000 inhabitants nothing. So do you know how we live? It's like feudalism, like Franjo Tahi Ante Sanader, Boban and the team. But Sinj and the Cetinski end don't deserve that. We know the loud voice, we're not mutated, but I'm sending a message to that Butkovic, so he gave so much of a listener to Andrej Plenkovic and Ante Sanader? Is Oleg Butkovic so obedient, Ante Sanader? Whoever's holding him for something, I don't think I can believe this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u38564	Good morning, esteemed MPs and respected MPs. Before we move to the first point of the session, I would like to welcome the lady present here. Tena Shimonović Einwalter. On 19 March 2021, a secret vote was held at the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament, following a public call, with 115 votes, and a new ombudsman, Tena Šimonović Einwalter, was elected. In accordance with Art. 13. The Law on the Ombudsman's staff, before taking office, is sworn by the Ombudsman before the Croatian Parliament. The oath shall be given in a way that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath after which the Ombudsman shall rise and pronounce the word ‘I swear’. I will now read the text of the oath, which reads: “I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will do my duty justly, honestly and consciously, in the best of my citizens.” Tena Shimonović Einwalter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u38565	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u38566	I congratulate the occupier on her oath and wish her much success in her work and that she performs her honorary duty professionally, responsibly and consciously on the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. [[Applause.]] And we will now continue to work, as we have announced, first item: - Annual report on implementation of the Strategy and the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019 Carrier: Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia The holder is the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 15. Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia and the government delivered an opinion. I would ask the proposer's representative to further explain the report, with us is the Secretary of State of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Zvonko Milas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42288	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable parliamentary deputies, parliamentary representatives. Allow me first of all to welcome you on behalf of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and since I have submitted this report for the first time, a few words about the office founded in 2012 following the adoption of the Strategy and the Law on Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The central authority of the state administration is responsible for contacting Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia and co-ordination with state bodies that in their portfolio have co-operation with our compatriots outside Croatia. It is this connection with our compatriots that has been achieved through government policies that are being upgraded through policies through programmes and projects, as well as other activities that we carry out in order to achieve as closely as possible with Croats and descendants from Croats no matter where they live but not just the connection with their homeland, but the connection between them with each other. Given the legal regulations, living conditions, political opportunities and other circumstances in which they live, Croatia is seen and co-operated with them as members of Croatian national minorities in 12 European states as Croats of emigrants in European and overseas states and Croats in BiH as a constitutive people. BiH and the equal position of Croats are one of the foreign policy priorities of the government of the Republic of Croatia. The real shortcomings in the constitutional legal framework and different interpretations have a very negative impact on everyday life in BiH, so in 2019, in addition to all the policies of a strong advocate for the constitutionality and equality of Croats and through the policy of programmes and projects, we continued to support them in order to improve as best as possible and to improve what will contribute to the better and better life of Croats in BiH. Co-operation through programmes and projects with Croatian associations and institutions in BiH aims to preserve the national identity of the Croatian people and strengthen their remainder. The selection criteria are long-term strategic importance, local community involvement, territorial equality and through the Central State Office selection process, the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health participate. The projects are many, those who design them and report exactly to the Croats from BiH, which is an indicator of interest and desire for progress but above all wishes and feelings of belonging to a nation. In order to strengthen institutions of strategic importance for the Croats in BiH, we continued to support the University of Mostar, the HNK in Mostar, what is the importance of these institutions and what is important for the survival and prosperity of Croats in BiH, it is immeasurable, from educational to identity, from cultural to economic and each other. Strongly representing the importance of supporting young people, we continued with the student scholarship programme in the academic year 2018/2019. and we have secured 400 scholarships for students studying in BiH and thus encourage educational, scientific and other co-operation and we want these potentials to remain in BiH. For those young people who continue to study in the Republic of Croatia, I would say, what may have gone through our ears, without any echo, free national graduation, so on the Office's initiative through the Ministry of Science, and I would say that this is very important for all these young people who come to study in the Republic. Successfully working with the political representatives of Croats at all levels of government in BiH, with numerous associations, associations, institutions and institutions in the fields of culture, science and education, but also an initiative aimed at establishing cooperation with representatives of the executive government in BiH where Croats do not have representatives, such as Bihac, Travnik and that is recognised as a significant shift in the face of current practice and will continue to do so. When we talk about the Croatian national minority, it should be pointed out that during 2019 the Central State Office continued to be strong, I would say, professional and political support to the institutions and members of the Croatian national minority in all European countries in which we live and support the continuation of the activities of Croatian communities in achieving and strengthening minority rights, i.e. the preservation of Croatian identity, language, culture, education, science and everything else that will contribute to the preservation of all those values by which they are recognised as members of the Croatian people. In 2019, funds for the programmes and projects of associations, institutions and organisations of the Croatian national minority amounting to 5 million kuna are also provided and thus support the activities of those I spoke about, as well as the development of minority media or the activities of minority institutions as well as other projects that will satisfy and improve the general public needs of Croatian minority communities, as well as their protection of rights and interests. The position and status of members of Croatian national minorities is different in certain countries, but when we talk about the Croatian national minority, with a lot of understanding and respect for all others, special place are taken by Croats in Serbia who are in the permanent focus of the interests of the Croatian public and Croatian institutions. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the important step of the government of the Republic of Croatia is to support strategic projects of the Croatian national minority in Serbia launched in 2018 by buying land for the headquarters of the Croatian Press House. The same was continued in 2019 when support was given to two strategic projects, construction of the Croatian House, a house that will unite the most important institutions of the Croatians in the Republic of Serbia, so the Croatian National Council, the Institute of Culture of the Vojvodina Croats, and just the Croatian word, that is, the news and publishing institution. The project of support for strategic projects was continued last year on a special budgetary activity, and I believe that we will continue it in 2021. Although this report is for 2019, I cannot say a few words about the decision of the city council of Subotica on the adoption of amendments and the town statute that would be included in the official use with Serbian, Hungarian and Croatian, so on. It's a rebel language. The importance of this issue is exceptional, with possible far-reaching consequences for the Croats in Serbia, and the decision is unfounded, in legal, professional and any other sense. The adoption of this decision violates the bilateral agreement between the two countries concluded in 2004 and further affects... Croatian communities are causing fear, uncertainty, especially today, at the time of waiting for a census in R. Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The institutions of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs have made numerous activities, of which I will mention only some, such as the reference of the diplomatic note of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the statements of top officials, but also cultural institutions, academic communities, with the aim of reviewing and withdrawing this, for many reasons, the disputed decision. Unfortunately, the debate over this mistake, including the embarrassing decisions of the Subotica City Assembly, which comes quickly after the propaganda film, i.e. the movie war of Dar from Jasenovac, is also marked by numerous threats to Croatians, especially representatives of Croatian institutions, such as the Croatian National Council and its President Mrs. Clear Private. There is, of course, a reaction of R. Serbia, but we point out that the government and how our Office continues to stand by our community, supports everything they do and is meeting the satisfaction of the Croatian community in Serbia, which is a very good connection between the communities of Croats in Serbia and the homeland. In order to improve the situation and define the status, I would like to say a few words about the Croatian community in Slovenia. There are more than 50 thousand of them, they are indigenous, especially in the white province, and the Republic of Slovenia, from its beginning, so 30 and more years, to the day of today, in no way recognises the Croatian community in any form whatsoever. In 2019, together with the Croatian Cultural Society Union of Slovenia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Central State Office established the Committee for the Question of Croatian Status in R. Slovenija. We held two sessions in 2020, one in Zagreb, one in the Embassy of the Republic of Ljubljana, the situation is not easy, but some shifts are visible and I will point out only one example that for the first time, in the new Slovenia in the last 31 years, we have received a monument to one Croatian giant, Ljudevita Gaja, who was raised in the northern park in Ljubljana, which speaks of a really great activity of our community and we hope that it will be innate, we will do everything in this field to gain the status of the Croatian national minority. A few words about Croatian emigration. In 2019, we had opportunities to be, so almost in all Croatian communities around the world, when we had no idea what could happen to health, mobility and security, and it is good that it is, I would say, the activities of the Central State Office and Croatian emigrants who, in great cooperation, have, I would say, been well connected, defined by the objectives, so affirmation of Croatian emigration, protection of rights, all in order, I would say, strengthening Croatian identity around the world. I think it's important and if we had approached these goals, I would say, systematically and structured, and I'm going to mention just a few good things, I'm holding for them to be good, which happened in 2019. One of them is the adoption of amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, where together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, as the holder, we worked on amendments to the law, a law that was turned to Croatian emigrants because of the most complaints about the length of the duration, the difficulties in obtaining or applying for Croatian citizenship. Today, this law is said especially in terms of Croatian emigration, very simple and I believe that after the end of this pandemic, we will soon have results or we will see how many Croatian emigrants or Croats or their descendants applied or applied for Croatian citizenship, which is why I am sure that the connection or the first fundamental link with the homeland will do everything, all other upgrades through everything we need not only to preserve the identity but to take advantage of the former weakness of Croatia, so a large number of Croats around the world, by gaining citizenship, I think we can really through all areas of life, whether it is education, economy, culture, therefore, anything, business, I think that we can raise to a higher level and that it will contribute to the welfare of both the Republic and to the preservation of what we want to last, therefore, Croatian identity throughout the world. I will mention two programmes, one programme of Roots, which was started in 2017 in Vukovar, is intended for primary school students and today we have 6 networks throughout 24 schools around the world, so where we are trying to strengthen our awareness of the membership of the Croatian people regardless of where they live. In August 2019, it was, in a way, completed or culminated in the Summer School of Croatian Identity, where young people, therefore, our countrymen, their parents, teachers from Austria, Vojvodina, Slovenia, BiH, were gathered in Vukovar, after video conferences held during the year, and where we said in another way, we presented very well everything that Croatia is and what it is trying to do. Also with the Association of Croatian-American Experts, support was continued in the organization of their 4th conference in America and the preparation and realization of the Summer School of Homeland in July 2019, so it is an educationally experienced programme aimed at young descendants of Croatian emigrants designed on the basis of their needs and the needs of communities of our people in emigration. Of course, again in order to strengthen the identity, belonging to the Croatian people, I would say networking in all areas of life, culture, scientific cooperation, so young people from Australia, Canada, Argentina, Peru and South Africa and the United States, through a 17-day journey from Ilock Ko Konavala, they have learned about Croatian history, natural, cultural goods, business, Croatian universities, the possibility of studying on them but what is most important, they have met each other and have learned that regardless of where they come from, where they live, d but it is Sydney, Vancouver, that Croatian identity is a fundamental part of them, to bring them together and to shape their future. I must say that the reactions to this project have been exceptional and that as soon as the health or epidemiological conditions are granted to us, we will continue. At the Office's initiative with the support of the Ministry of Science and Education, a special quota was continued in the academic year 2018/2019, and I think that all universities, from Zagreb, Osijek, so the University of Zadar, the University of Vukovar, the Croatian Catholic University, the University of the North which also opened the door for young people outside the Republic, contributed to, I would say, the best possible way to connect with the homeland of their ancestors. In cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education and the Agency for Education and Education and the Croatian Emigrants organized workshops of Croatian languages and culture in Australia, so Sydney, Melbourne, Geelong, provided professional and financial support to the organization of the international scientific conference on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of Croatian Studies at the University... In Sydney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I want to highlight is the Croatian language learning programme in Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, Croaticum, which has a special importance in terms of fostering and moving Croatian language and culture that is held in 4 universities, so in Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, which encourages the return of descendants of Croatian emigrants, there are conditions for their easier inclusion in the economic and social life of the Republic of Croatia. In 2019/20, so we're already talking about the pandemic, it was assigned about 250 scholarships through the programme. We continued with an online, open-label course in the Croatian language of A2 level, which is of great interest and has so far been approached by more than 7,000 users, and I must point out that in collaboration with HRT, we have launched new shows such as Global Croatia, which deals with the topic of Croatian communities in countries where Croats live in a larger number but also processes bilateral relations with these countries. In November 2019, the 3rd session of the second meeting of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia during which we considered all that needed to be done more closely, in order to further link the relations between Croatian peoples outside the Republic of Croatia, Croats in BiH and members of Croatian national minorities to be as firm as possible and more networked, we discussed the situation in BiH, the vote of Croatian citizens, so the adjustment of the programme, what really matters and what they problem in their daily lives. I would say that the quality of the Council's work enables us to connect exactly with all the heads of the state administration's body, so from the President of the Republic through the Prime Minister and everyone else in a way that we build a partnership and try to really build a common, I would say, global Croatian future. Finally, as the head of this body, I must say that I am pleased to see this visibility, at least by what I am talking to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that it has indeed become visible and I expect that cooperation and community will be strengthened in the coming period, that we all continue to ensure the protection and preservation of the national identity of all Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia and therefore I ask that, regardless of party membership, we try to achieve the greatest consensus of all in the Republic of Croatia, of course, at the benefit of all our good countrymen living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42289	Thank you, Secretary of State. We'll go with the replicas. There are 21. He's a colleague of the Bulls first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42290	Thank you very much. The Croats in Vojvodina, Serbia, were left at the mercy of Chetnik Vukic, where he was deprived of all rights to the Croatian people. They have lost opportunities, have no representatives in the Serbian or duchy parliament. You mentioned the agreement and this government working for the Croats in Serbia. Croatians in Serbia have absolutely no rights at this time, while in Croatia 37 times more is invested for representatives of national minorities, the Serb national minority, which is commendable, however, you mentioned the 2004 Agreement, while in Croatia we have 3 parliamentary representatives of the Serb national minority, countless state secretaries, 12 mayors, 40 mayors and head of security in Serbia because you left everything to Vukic, the HDZ coalition partner in the European Union Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42291	Thank you very much. Just before you answer, please for one thing. So 3 MPs, or 2 MPs, and one Bridge representative, signed up as if they were in the assembly. ... Yeah, yeah, but we can't do that because now you're all registered under parliament hall, so you can be in that hall, then it's a different order. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's no big deal, but I'm asking you all to stick to the line, 'cause then big parties can do it, so everybody's gonna be there. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42292	Thank you very much. I thank you for asking, Mr. Bulj. Shortly, I said, I would not say everything I should say because it would take a long time and a special debate, but I really should go there and talk to Croats living in the Vojvodina area and in general the entire Serbia and see what they are doing and how they work with the Republic of Serbia, with the institutions of government, with the Central State Office. When they have the hardest and when they are well, we are always there, it is true that they have not, therefore, not lost, never had a representative in the Serbian Parliament, but we will not give it up and there is a way to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42293	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, who? Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42294	Thank you very much, President. He's been injured. In 238, I didn't, not only is the answer incorrect, but a series of false things have been made. Croatians in Serbia are forgotten by the Croatian government, and this was confirmed last year by the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr. Zigmanov. Left in awe, while in Croatia, the Serb national minority and Pupovac work well with you and it is commendable, but the Croats were left to Vukic On a tray. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] You left them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42295	Comrade Bulj, this is a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, so I'm giving you a heads-up and please don't do that. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42296	Dear Mr. Miles, I am aware of the weight of the task that lies ahead of you in strengthening ties with Croats outside Croatia and in doing so you have my full support. I would like to ask you something about the elections held in Croatia at the time of the crown crisis. At that time, due to various epidemiological measures in different countries of the world, many Croats outside Croatia were unable to access or access polling stations in a quality way and thus exercise their right to be guaranteed to them. 45 The Constitution, which questioned the illegality of the elections itself, thus our places here. In that sense, since your Office is in charge of protecting the rights of Croats outside Croatia, I wonder what your knowledge of how many Croats outside Croatia have failed to achieve their constitutionally guaranteed right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42297	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42298	Thank you very much. Thank you for your support. I don't know how many Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have not exercised their rights. I believe we do not even know how many Croats within the Republic of Croatia have not exercised their rights. The pandemic is unfortunately something that we cannot talk about through politics, but we all need to fight it together as well as the whole world and do everything that Croats like, I said, several times, members of the Croatian people exercise their rights. In what way, we should take this, I'd say, all together to discuss and reach a consensus on what we're going to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42299	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42300	Thank you very much, President HS, Mr. Miles. I know that you, like me, would like the Croats in Serbia to have the same position as the Serbs in Croatia. The sin Serbia is making towards the Croats, and these last moves are in the category of difficult, and if this continues, surely diplomatic notes will not be enough anymore, nor will Serbia be able to continue its European path. Your Office is working on great projects, one of them is also a pilot project of the Register of Croatian Subjects outside the Republic of Croatia, as a digital database and communication network, according to my information, by the end of 2019 more than 4100 users were registered. Can you tell us more about this project and whether the intention of this project is actually to connect our emigrants with the native Croatian homeland, encourage them to invest, but also encourage them to return because many demographics think it would be one of the great demographic measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42301	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42302	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs. That's right. The registry, among other things, wants to encourage our Croats to return, but first of all, it wants to connect them to a global Croatian family through different areas of life. So, no matter where they live, whether they live in the Republic of Croatia, in Vancouver or in Derventa. In this way I believe that through the central, or through the Registrar I can get to know... I would say the same, I would say, interesting stories through the areas of life based on which they can be found, exchange experiences and do all the things that we seek, therefore, as best as possible, and then this will certainly result in Croatia coming and discovering all of the potentials that Croatia offers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42303	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42304	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia, linking and strengthening relations with Croats in BiH, preserving their equality and strengthening Croatian identity. In your presentation, you said a lot about the support and the projects that were in 2019, you said they had financed with the largest amount so far. I am sure that this support will be these for all of us challenging and difficult 2021 because more than ever, Croats in BiH need our support. We must not get tired, give up the issue, nor seek a solution for the Croats in BiH, but we must also not forget all Croats around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42305	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42306	Thank you very much. I thank the esteemed MPs. Of course, support for the programmes or projects of Croats in BiH has been and will be and I hope it will grow stronger and better, with me saying that, I find it difficult to talk about funding, I want to talk about cooperation, about partnership. As many Croats in BiH need the Republic of Croatia, so many Croatians need the Croats. So, I repeat, we are members of a nation, we live by BiH as a sovereign state of friendship, with 1000km of borders, and we really don't need to think much about what all links are and what the Croats in BiH mean for the Republic of Croatia, but also the Republic of Croatia for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42307	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42308	Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to see that this Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia was established in 2020. I hope that in due course you will become a separate ministry because I believe that Croatians need a ministry like this, since unfortunately there are more outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia than within the Republic of Croatia. Here you would particularly refer to the situation of Croats in Vojvodina where we were once with 109 thousand inhabitants in '81. In the year, we fell to only 57,000 on the last list, where we were once from cities like Subotica, the most Croats on the globe of the Earth, from Petrovadine, where there were Croats over 98%, burned only on tracks. I wonder if we will succeed as the official state government to stop the introduction of the rebel language in the area of Subotica, and what else would R. Serbia do if we, in addition to the Serbian language, offered some Bani language, the Korduna language, I think that the whole of Europe would rise to its feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42309	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42310	Thank you very much, Agent Pavlichek. It is true, all these allegations that you have stated stand and it is true that Subotica was once the city with the most Croats, and of course the official government in the Republic of Croatia stands and will stand behind our Croatian community, the Croatian national minority in Serbia, and whether it will succeed in something, and look, in order to create the Republic as an independent and sovereign state, we had to enter the war, there was no other story. I don't want to talk about war now, but I'm sure we'll do everything we can to protect our countrymen and all the values they live by as Croats in the neighbouring republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42311	... Comrade Stier, come in. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42312	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I welcome this message of yours that you said you were looking for a consensus or as much consensus as possible with the efforts in collaboration with, especially with our emigrants, but of course, with the Croats in BiH and with the Croatian minorities in the EU. When we were in Buenos Aires in 2019 at the 5th meeting of the Croatians from South America, we could hear such messages from them. The second thing we heard was also commendation to this, the change of the Law of Citizenship. However, of course later Covid came and with the great interest of our emigrants, now there was a problem that a lot has been waiting for us to get an appointment in our embassies, even 2 years. How do you see synergy with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Ministry of the Interior, on resolving this issue, digitalization and services have been announced, as you see in the next period of synergy of your Office's cooperation with these institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42313	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42314	Thank you, counsel Stier. Indeed, the law on, or amendments to, the Law on Citizenship has indeed contributed to an increasing number of requests. As far as I know, I regularly hear from our embassies in Argentina, or Chile, the demands by 2023 have already been filled. The fact is that the pandemic is, the fact is that we need to strengthen consular departments in our diplomatic representations and most importantly, we need to digitise as much as possible the work of diplomatic consular representations in order to really make it easier for our compatriots not only to submit requests, but everything possible that is related to their homeland, from issuing birth certificates and everything that is unfortunately still pending today. So I believe that through such synergy we will succeed in achieving what you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42315	Comrade Mažur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42316	I thank the esteemed president of HS, distinguished state secretaries, personally I have witnessed the importance of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, above all the Croatians in BiH, the visit of institutions, associations, individuals, from Posavina, Central Bosnia to Western Herzegovina, certainly that this importance of looking at hundreds of projects that are funded by the Republic and creating preconditions, I would say first of all the remainder, but also the return of Croats to BiH, however, I believe that it is more important than that an unbreakable link of one nation over two borders that are shown to daily activities, I believe that the government of the Republic and in these COVIDs will continue to finance, above all, the assistance of the Croats in BiH but also through inter-resordinary cooperation of all state bodies, to create further preconditions for the rest of the Croats and better life as a constituent nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42317	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42318	Thank you, Mr. Mazhar. Indeed, we have had the opportunity to work together on several occasions in BiH and through the work that you have done several months or days ago, to work together in the best possible way to work with our countrymen in BiH and to ensure that projects that they themselves consider priorities, for important co-operation with the Republic, we still need to continue not as a means of funding because the money we have is never enough but as a form of cooperation of people living on two sides of the border, they really belong to one people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42319	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42320	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome your efforts in bringing our people closer to Croatia. I know very well the opportunities especially in North America, but what worries is that our diaspora is still growing, our people are leaving mass, we already have so-called. The new diaspora and what causes surprise in our people is this persistent refusal by the government to facilitate their participation in the elections. I don't think that should be disputed today, we all agree that we should make integration into Croatian life easier, so if they are still out there, they participate in all possible ways in what is happening in Croatia. What is your office's opinion on this, why has the possibility of a letter or an electronic vote not been introduced so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42321	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42322	Thank you very much. I appreciate the question. So I'd say that's the question of voting, the constitutional category by which I would say, before we put an ad hoc on the table, we should really all look in the eyes together and talk, or a little bit, in the Republic of Croatia to strengthen the awareness of Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. So whether it's BiH, the Croatian national minority or the emigrants. What I was just talking about as part of my relationship with Croatian emigration in the context of the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on Citizenship, let's say that it was the first step in order for a man to vote, he must be a citizen of a country and I think it's the best platform on which we can all sit together tomorrow and see how we can make the best solution for all people living outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42323	Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42324	Dear Mr. Miles, I'm happy that there is your office and I respect your work as well as the work of your predecessor, Mrs. Poirot. Daria Krsticevic. You are working in accordance with the powers that the office has and with the means at your disposal but unfortunately, today you will hear a lot of criticism about things that you are not directly responsible for because you cannot, with these limited powers and means, correct the damage that the Croatian government is doing with its inaction and some things, by direct destructive action. First of all, about Croats in BiH, Serbia-Montenegro, which will be heard later. In this sense, you will get a lot of fire today and for something you are not responsible for, but what you will do is you will be in such a position, and you will also be responsible for the actions and inaction of the ruling ones. One brief observation of what you've been doing, I think it is necessary to refresh the media content of the Croatians outside of Croatia, young people under 30, 35. Let's just say they don't watch TV and TV programs for the elderly they're looking at Croatian channels anyway, portals and so on, I think we should call some Programs That Will Call for Contemporary [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Internet and modern media content, facilities for young Croats outside Croatia. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42325	Thank you, colleague Rasdic. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42326	Thank you very much, Agent Rasdic. I thank you for not running away from the criticism, and neither I nor my colleagues, and we don't want to... So here we are, giving initiatives if nothing else, if we don't have the resources or anything else to solve things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is this part of the media that you are talking about, so for Croatian emigration there is an Internet platform, so the media through which I would really say in the most modern way are to look at those products of HRT that we have and I mentioned earlier that these are some even new platforms like Global Croatia, which really speaks of people's lives of Croats in, say, countries where Croats are a number of emigration, there is a view across the border and let's say there are similar shows and there are all those platforms that, of course, need to be upgraded, they should be in line with technological achievements and coordinated, but that's not all so black, it's not exactly like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42327	Thank you. Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42328	Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, surely that full support to the Central State Office and to you on your work and above all, everything you do in both cultural and all aspects of life, with all our communities Croatian in the world. Here's one, especially this partnership you said, the Croats of the 1990s not only from BiH but from around the world, Canada, America came and had the courage to put on the Croatian uniform. Surely their children are on this partnership today and I believe that the state office but is not, but through the state office that this partnership can be done as best as possible by these cooperations such as their fathers, strengthen this one homeland love that is connected and certainly from this place full of support for our Croats in Serbia and I believe that this is what you do best and that the Parliament will make quality political decisions that the Croatian people in Serbia will strengthen themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42329	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42330	Thank you very much, Agent Deur. ...of course that one in line with the possibilities and what we can do as an office, we try best and right, you're right, so since '90. I would say to today, young people from around the world come, I don't think I have a lot of time but a lot of examples where entire young families come, even from North America, there are a lot of them coming to Croatia to start a new life, to create a new business, and we must never forget all those people who came with us first, to stand on the first line and fight for independent and modern Croatia and to their children everything that's left behind, we should really present Croatia as it is, not to call them, not to tell them, to bother them, but to present Croatia in its fullness, with its people, which is most valuable and I believe that in this way, we will encourage them to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42331	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42332	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, of course, welcome any assistance to Croats outside of Croatia, the projects never enough, but I have never seen enough money now for the female-dobe canton which we have quite close to, in 2013 at the Zenica 8200 Croats, before the war almost 23 000, now the question of whether there are 6 000 at all, in some 5 parishes of Catholics are gathering. Now most of the old population is left, and the rest of them are unfortunately relocated. I watched the projects that Croatia co-financed, few of them, meaning in Zepč music school, pupils' home, elementary school, Zenica mentions the mark of members of HVO and only one meeting with representatives of Croats in the women's-dobe canton. Do you think Croatia could do more? So more meetings, more cooperation with associations, more homes for older and powerless, etc., investment in health care because I'm afraid There'll be even less of them. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42333	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42334	Thank you, esteemed representative. Well, I could agree with you never to cooperate like this, never to school, never to go home, never to do anything that people need for everyday life is enough, but you mentioned the Jeopardy, you mentioned the Zenica. So, with everything we do, with everything we can do, I think we have very good cooperation, especially with Chief Zepča, so I think that this cooperation has given us a lot of results, so also through the office that used to be led by Representative Mažar, so it might be best to, we will work hard and strengthen our work but then when it allows us the circumstances that are around us but maybe we should also here in this very place, the Croatian Parliament, try in some way to get to these people and see what they live and how they live, or what kind of cooperation they need to be, so maybe we'll come to say some common corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42335	Comrade Prickin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42336	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, my replica refers to one of the details of your preface. In fact, you claim there have been three successful meetings, both international and intergovernmental, mixed, and you mention three of us neighbouring countries, actually Sj. Macedonia is not. Actually, the replica is more of a question. Whether bilateral meetings, one with Macedonia, one with Serbia, one with Hungary or a joint meeting were held, and in my speech, I will explain later why I am asking the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42337	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42338	Thank you very much. Indeed, therefore, there are institutions of intergovernmental and mixed committees that exist to protect the rights and interests of national minorities, therefore with Sj. Macedonia, Macedonia's minorities in the Republic of Macedonia or Croatia, also with Serbia and also with Montenegro, and also with Hungary. And through this kind of cooperation we try therefore through the recommendations that we make there, so together as part of the Croatians as part of this mixed committee, to facilitate the work of governments in the context of all that will be made as executive decisions of all parts of life, therefore concerning national minorities. So it's being held separately, it's being held once a year, once in Hungary, for example, once in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42339	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42340	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, but it was already about the anti-zatonite, the anti-statutory decision of the Subotic City Council in introducing a rebel language that decided not only to undermine the position and position and status of the Croatian national minority in Serbia but also to have implications for bilateral relations between the two of our countries, and from that the Government and you and the ministry should insist on all possible legal mechanisms in order to amend such an illegal decision. What I want to say to you and why I have actually given the replica was, in my time, recommended that the counties in Croatia help families and members of Croatian national minorities in other countries but, above all, to the Croatian people in BiH to improve their status and above all, the housing issue. In this sense, my Dubrovnik-Neretva County allocates significant funds each year to help a family living in Stolco Do you have any knowledge of whether or not the other county is still watching your office? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] and implements such... [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] in the area of other counties? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42341	Comrade Bačić, thank you very much. Please, let's just stick to the weather. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42342	Thank you, Agent Bacic. Of course, I did not mention it, but I mentioned it in my previous reports, and it is not irrelevant, however, extremely important especially when we talk about the Croatian national minority, so here we can be specific about Croats in the Republic of Serbia. So, a lot of counties, I would say even, the county community if I wasn't wrong, a year ago, before the pandemic was visiting the Croatian national minority, so the Croatian community, the Croatian National Council and a lot of counties, especially Slavonian, Southern, not to help but systematically say, help the work of institutions in both Montenegro and Serbia and BiH, and in a certain way and the municipalities or cities are helping concretely, I will not call them a project but a concrete opportunity in terms of improving the everyday lives of people in order to really stay in the areas where they were born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42343	He's a colleague of Bilek's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, unlike some people who have said that you will be criticised today, I believe that you will perhaps be unnecessary but also on the other hand, I will say that I think that the Croatian Office is doing a great job, not only in our surrounding countries here in our nearby environment where the Croats have a large number, especially in BiH, where the constituent people are but also in Serbia and Slovenia, but also in our smaller communities which are both across Europe, where here and in the Czech Republic, Croatia will soon be completed and the Croatian House will finally be institutionalised both by the Croatian minority and there. He also might not agree that the Croatian government is not working on the work because I know that not only the Government as such but also when we were with the President, the former President. Kolindom Grabar-Kitarovic, then the topic of foreign political meetings in Europe, is precisely the Croatian minority and status of the Croatian minority, both in Bosnia and the surrounding countries, and here in last week's visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Percic here to the Republic of Croatia from the Czech Republic, Mr Gordan Grlic Radman [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Also one of the main... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42345	Comrade Bilek, thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42347	Wait a minute, state secretary's colleague, damage to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42348	238, insult and demeaning. A fellow representative now held BiH first, collokitally called Bosnia and then said the Croats were a minority there. The Croats are not a minority in BiH, but are a constituent people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42349	My colleague Rasudiæ, I did not understand my colleague that he said that Croats are minorities, it is generally known that the constituent people, so maybe I did not catch them, would have warned that they were, but here's a colleague Bilek himself will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42350	The same article. 238, my excuse for the name, so BiH, I apologize. As for the Croats in BiH, I said the constitutional people, I stand behind it because that is exactly what foreign policy is about, to be explained because some countries in our area are still, perhaps not clear to them and in BiH, Croats really are a constituent people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42351	Okay, here's what we've explained, so please, Secretary of State, respond to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42352	Thank you. Dear Representative Bilek, thank you for these words. You know, here's to your encouragement and in cooperation with the Government or the Central State Office, we'd say, on the way to reach an agreement with the Czech Republic on protection which we hope to inaugurate as soon as possible and thus contribute to cooperation on the protection of national minorities, but I would say in another dimension in the overall relations between the two countries. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42353	Now it's my fellow Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42354	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, I share concerns as well as I believe all my colleagues and colleagues who spoke today about the issues of Croats in Vojvodina and Serbia. So I would ask you to tell us if, in any way, it is possible in the time you are scheduled to answer, where do you actually see the biggest problems in institutional cooperation with Serbia? So, as you stated, numerous meetings have been held, meetings are being held, but this relationship goes a little further and a little backwards. So why are we not able to make some constant progress in improving the status of Croats in Serbia and Vojvodina? And here, I'm saying, what do you think and, of course, the institutions you're working with on these issues, the biggest problems, and what should we actually work on more?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42355	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42356	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you were also an official in the government during President Z. Milanovic and I would say that you have experience regardless of what was not your portfolio but in collaboration with the Republic of Serbia, with the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and with all that is experienced by the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia. So, for good things as well as for bad, it always takes two sides, and we really won't get tired of everything we have to do towards the Croatian community, but above all, according to the institutions that must ultimately bring what they have signed and I guarantee that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I won't say it every day, but I know that once a month the Prime Minister is meeting with representatives of Croatian institutions from the Republic of Serbia and that we will certainly continue this path with the support of course, all of you and the entire state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42357	Comrade Chichak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42358	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to know how much the Central State Office for Croats outside Croatia has done in that part of the Bosnian Posavina, in the part where, the work that Posavina is in the RS, but certainly in the part where the Federation, of Odjak, Domaljevac, Orasja, we have both our representatives and our commanders and Croats there, I know how much your office or our office means to them, and that is why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42359	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42360	Thank you very much, Agent Chichak. So, in short, Posavina by herself I believe that many of the Posavina of the 1990s remember and in some ways admire those people who are there, who are left behind and who have no intention of moving from where they were born and in this context, I will only talk about the mandate in which I run this office. I said a little while ago, I don't like to talk about money, I want to point out that we are the means that we are meant to cooperate through projects and programmes increased twice as much as they were until this government's mandate and through this cooperation I think it's precisely those minimal civilization achievements for all the people who live there, so it's hypocritical to invite them to stay and not give them the possibility of staying. So that creates infrastructure and health care conditions and schools and all that people need for a good life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42361	Comrade Barbaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42362	President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I believe that this report is very good and precise, the numbered projects, a brief description and amounts, and it is understandable that you end up and fully review this report, it is not possible, therefore different comments. It is also clear that this report does not include a number of assistance towards Croats, such as a water economy project in border areas, cross-border cooperation projects financed by EU funds provided by the Republic of Croatia, or, for example, one assistance from this government and the Ministry of Defence to the victims of war, members of the HVO. It is also understandable that we want more, better, do you agree that we should all make a contribution through the involvement of other ministries and institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in these forms of assistance? So, I'm not talking about the necessary financial assistance, so we'd be worth the same thing as so-called. ... help through transfer of knowledge, experience and learning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42363	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42364	Thank you very much, Agent Barbaric. I agree with everything you've said. So, you're the same witness that, and in this sense, cooperation is spreading, I think we were just in the Western Herzegovina area with the culture minister, ma'am. Oblished, a meeting is being prepared soon and with the Minister of Agriculture, I would also like to say to all those areas where the Republic of Croatia can contribute or contribute, I would say even better and stronger progress for all in BiH, or for all those areas where we can work together, whether it is a matter of agriculture, a question of tourism, an economy. We finally know how much trade is between the two states, so we can say here that there is no man who doesn't know what makes it so big, and I hope that we will also expand cooperation on the welfare of everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42365	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42366	Thank you. This report therefore shows that the central office is working and providing support mainly for programmes in the fields of culture, education and science, health care, and somehow it seems to me that economic cooperation has been kind of neglected. If we look at part of the report concerning economic co-operation, you say it is responsible for a number of questions from Croats outside Croatia. You have supported several possibilities of cooperation, data are collected for the business register of business entities. However, it seems to me, in addition to national identity, that we should really work to connect successful entrepreneurs and provide them with opportunities to invest and develop the economy. What do you think you're gonna do to fix that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42367	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42368	Thank you very much. It's not just that it's just about culture and education, although I keep education one of the most important areas in which we have to work together in some way to process the administrations of the youngest we need to focus on, but on the other hand, if you read carefully, you could notice that the Podravka factory, therefore it's in this area that builds a fruit processing plant, vegetables, which I would say, a wider story which, if the epilogue were good, and I expect it to be, can be tied up by more than 10,000 people, so through various types, so direct work, suppliers, anything that means agriculture, in this context, that we're working on it. So there's all the larger companies in the Republic of Croatia and we're talking to these people who run, with administrations and we're trying, in accordance with our capabilities, but that's why we have meetings and everything else that can contribute, so to strengthen the economy and economic ties. I mentioned what a trade exchange is between the two states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42369	Thank you. My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42370	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, my personal opinion is that we should all be concerned about the situation of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that this is certainly a matter that exceeds the parties, exceeds the policies, exceeds the government, that is something that we should worry about continuously and I believe that the Republic of Croatia has institutionally shown that this concern exists. What worries me very much is that in our public space, among people we still do not make the terms of Croats as a constituent people in BiH, Croats as national minorities in neighbouring countries or Croatian emigrants. It also seems to me that we don't even understand the real and real needs of these people and what those of the Republic of Croatia expect. Therefore, very brief co-chairs of 4 mixed intergovernmental committees, I will not be able to say or say, I would like to know what we will specifically do to make this reference year, 2021, which should be declared by Croats as national minorities. on your lists... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42371	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42372	Thank you very much. I agree with you, therefore, that it is certain that the public in the Republic of Croatia should so in some way raise awareness and understanding of what and how Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, that it is not the same as being Croats in Sydney and Croats in the Yearbook and that through that I would say the difference, I can understand in which way little or all of this cooperation can work. So, intergovernmental mixed committees or government recommendations, I think it depends on a lot of things, and I finally believe Mr. Jankovics will talk about it more, but what can we do about it? So we can do that through such mixed committees, through cooperation, through conversation with the most responsible people of other countries in which our countrymen live, we appeal that as now the Republic of Sj. Macedonia, finally recognises Croats as a national minority, as an identity, so we have achieved that on this census in Sj. Macedonia, Croats can plead as Croats. It's not much, but it's something to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42373	Comrade Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42374	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I thank, above all, for the very comprehensive presentation and, of course, welcome all the activities and projects of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia which aim to strengthen ties and protect interest and improve the status and position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Activities aimed at Croatian emigrants also include young generations. The roots are primarily directed at elementary school students while the Homeland is focused on group 18+. My question is, do you have any kind of programme planned to include high school age to round up the system of measures and support for young people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42375	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42376	I thank you, esteemed representative Balic. You are right, we have and are preparing a project that will be related to Croatian descendants, high school students, so 16, 17, 18 years of age. He should be complemented with special registration quotas which I believe are a very good thing, so the possibility of direct enrolment in Croatian universities, or Croatian universities, where I think that we can achieve the best link with these young people, show them Croatia as it really is, so we should say, not only a consensus of all of us, but rather a promotion of special registration quotas, so, that way, that kind of education, so that we would really interest these young people, to come to Croatia, because otherwise, to theirs, I would say, The land of their ancestors. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42377	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42378	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, I think you know that in 2011, in fact, there were just over 57,000 inhabitants in Serbia, specifically Croats. So today it's much less, I believe that this number, as such, is known to you. Tomislav Zigman, president of the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina, warns of violent decroatisation, ethnically motivated provocations towards Croats and strong hate speech, and on the other hand, it is evident that Milorad Pupovac, as a member of the ruling majority, who often calls the Serbs in Croatia victims, speaks of this wisely. In BiH, in 2019, it was actually found by the list that the Croats were slightly more than 11 thousand less. I commend the effort, specifically from the Central Office, but is that enough? After all, can we even do more as a state if we are unable to stop the emigration of Croats from Croatia? Can we end up protecting Croatian interests outside Croatia if we are unable to protect and preserve the interests of Croats in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42379	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42380	May I? Thank you, Mr. Kujudzic. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, here you go.]] So I, I would disagree that we cannot protect the interest of Croats in the Republic of Croatia, as well as that we cannot protect the interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, many things say otherwise. In R. Serbia and everything that has happened to the Croats, we have been talking for 30 years, so since the beginning of the war in the Republic of Croatia, I dare say that I may know that area better than you, I know both the Gibarian and the Kukujevci directly, I have been through these villages many times, which today have neither, nor any Croats, and we know very well how and what they face in everyday life of the Croats. But that's why both the Prime Minister and the humble Office, so in accordance with our capabilities, we're really doing everything we can and I repeat again, we'll never get tired and we'll get through it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42381	Okay, well, thank you, pretty secretary of state, you can go back to your seat now. Now we'll see if the committee reporter will take the floor? Yeah. President of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia Zdravka Bušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 5th session held on 11 March 2021, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia held a discussion on the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019, which was delivered to the President of the Parliament by the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia on 4 September 2020. 89 The Rules of Procedure of HS, the Committee discussed the report as a parent working body. Reporter State Secretary Zvonko Milas, present here, informed the Committee about the results of the work from the central state office's work. In particular, he stressed the importance of connecting with Croats in BiH, i.e. support, return and remnant in BiH and preserving their equality, which is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. He presented programmes and projects in the field of education and science, health care, social care, culture, as well as other areas such as the construction of municipal infrastructure and housing facilities. He particularly highlighted projects of long-term value for Croats outside Croatia, particularly those in the role of preserving identity, language and culture, such as schools, hospitals, theatres, cultural homes and other institutions. The emphasis is also placed on the efforts of the Central State Office for as close as possible relations with the Croatian national minority in 12 European countries, as well as with better cooperation, I hope, which we are achieving with Croats around the world. After the debate was held, the Committee proposed that HS accept this Annual Report, and that this report be discussed at the plenary session, it came unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42383	Thank you, too. Now we'll open the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most and the esteemed colleague Nino Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42384	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Miles, associates, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Posavec Krivec warned very correctly that there are 3 different categories of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who have, who live quite different realities and have completely different problems that require 3 basic different types of approaches. The first are the Croats in BiH, who are at least a formal, constitutive people, who, above all, need political support, political support, which is unfortunately lagging behind these intervention measures, are nice to help and help healthcare and education and restore some fence of the parish hall in the return parish in Posavina, all this is good. However, without political support from Croatia, Croats in BiH will disappear, and with this political support and resolution of their status they do have the economic capacity to handle all these matters on their own, and one day there will be support for the Republic of Croatia. And that's key, political aid. The second category is traditional Croatian minorities in the surrounding countries, some of these countries are EU members, some aspirate to be and in this sense Croatia should primarily insist on the same level of minority rights of Croats in those countries, at the same level that minorities exercise their rights in Croatia, and some minorities that experience as parent countries in which Croats are minorities, Croats that I speak of. The third category is Croatian emigration. Yesterday, we had a debate here about the census where we had defeated demographic figures, about how likely the census would show that half a million of us were less than 10 years ago, and the question is how fictitious that list was since 2011 or that it was a working-age population in '91. in Croatia there were 3 million, and now there are 2.5 million. What we can turn to and as a demographic resource are Croatian emigrants. What I hope will one day be the wave of emigration of these Croatian people or descendants in the second and third generation of Croats who have evicted, who hopefully will one day recognize the Republic of Croatia as the best place to live. They also need to help strengthen the identity and feelings of Croatia and ties with Croatia. What I mentioned in the replica is not an accident. When I talk about modern content, none of the Croats in the second and third generations under 35. Surely they won't look at any television content because young people don't watch TV. In this sense, to open some kind of competition for contemporary content, some successful Tick-Tok, a clip that will present something interesting to them around Croatia, a 15-year-old in Sydney, Chile or Los Angeles will be much more important than some boring and old-fashioned TV program he sees, his grandmother on cable TV. So these are completely different realities and completely different kinds of problems. As I said, it is good that this office exists, but the office cannot fill those gaps that leave insufficient Croatian foreign policy and should be highlighted. This specifically refers to the situation of Croats in BiH. Here's an example, a very modern one with one exclusive regarding the relationship between Croatians and Croats in BiH. A month ago, I met the Croatian public with the fruits of what Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic defined as Croatia's greatest diplomatic success in candidates for international institutions and attestation as Plenkovic says of Croatia's strong foreign political position today. It is certainly about the election and work of Marija Pejcinović Buric as the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. I will visit that at that time, because of my speech, there was a statement by unselected bureaucrat Christophe Poirel, head of the Human Rights Administration and the Council of Europe, who said after a 5-day virtual visit to BiH, quote: It is time for BiH to move to a different and modern system in which there is no discrimination and which is not based on the constituent peoples. And the constituent nations are the foundations of BiH's constitution. So, an insignificant bureaucrat came down on fire and increased already broken trust among Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs in BiH. Of course, the statement that questioned the constitutionality of the people met with the enthusiastic approval of another Bosniak member of President Zeljko Komsic, who pointed out that she had historical significance and that it was time to establish, quote, a civil state which Mr. Bakir Izetbegovic, a civil state, has been talking about for the last few days. And we all know or should know that such a civil state is de facto synonym for a Muslim state in which Croats will be a minority. So, at times when we read in the media that Croatia at EU level is taking important diplomatic activities for BiH's well-being, its future and the future of the Croats in BiH, which this office is eminently dealing with, which I hope will bear fruit and why the ruling one will always have our support, the Secretary General of the Council of Europe Marija Pejcinović Buric is silent and does not deny, does not deny that the views of its subordinates are also the views of the Council of Europe. What's this about? The Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, which I referred to as Vice-President at the beginning of this month, was a letter with a concrete inquiry by Marija Pejcinović Buric, interested in whether the views of the bureaucrat Poirel were also the views of the Council of Europe and its views, and could it confirm that Poirel really said that the time for abolishing the constituent peoples as the foundation of BiH? Yesterday, we received a letter from Marija Pejcinović Buric in which there is no answer to our questions. On the contrary, we have received a letter in which Pejcinović Buric is giving us a lecture and interpreting the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and what the Council of Europe has done so far. So, even today after we received her letter, we don't know if Secretary General Pejcinović Buric thinks that in BiH he needs a system that I quote is not based on constitutional peoples. And we're talking about whether to give, I repeat, for some parish court, a football club in central Bosnia or in Herzegovina some kind of event. I wonder if Croatian foreign policy is actually coherent, unique, patriotic today and does it have a common direction? Maybe our foreign policy has two faces. What is the real face of Croatian foreign policy? Is it the one that forms empty bureaucrats and chats, which sends various Maria Pejcinović Buric and her assistants to international institutions so that the ruling pirates can fill the space and talk about their successes, that in turn they will not even want to answer the questions of the parliamentary representatives and the parliamentary committee, of which they have recently asked for confidence in the behaviour of the ministerial function, or is decided by a single Croatian foreign policy whose diplomats put the state above all and who, for example, will someday convince other EU members that Serbia cannot become an EU member until the problem of missing, for example, is resolved. Or the status of minorities in Serbia in the opposite of what the situation is in neighbouring EU member states. Or that there is no progress for BiH until the equality of Croats with other constituent nations is ensured. I wish this were another thing, but how can I be sure when Pejcinović Buric was presented to us as Croatia's greatest diplomatic success in recent years? So two decades of "catization" of Croatian diplomacy obviously leaves a mark, and the result is that in the Council of Europe, I repeat, we have a person who does not directly answer the question of Croatian parliamentary representatives representing the people through whom the main secretion has reached that function. My colleagues and colleagues, in order to avoid confusion, we support every action of our diplomats in favour of achieving all important strategic Croatian goals, especially those relating to improving the position of Croats in both BiH and Serbia and other countries in the neighbourhood and relations with the Croatian diaspora. However, Croatia is a member of the Dayton Agreement and as such we must not deviate from our rights. We have the right to raise our voice when that Agreement is broken. We will not be silent about the eclative examples of "catism" of our services, and especially when they arrive at us by giving us instructions of empty answers, people who were present until yesterday as great patriots and professionals, and today they act as citizens of the world by means of New York, Strasbourg or Brussels. Later in an individual speech, I will look back on the situation of Croats in Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Slovenia, which is in many concerns, and as an announcement, I will only list Nikola Selakovic, minister of foreign affairs of Serbia's Croatian protest note for the threat of death to Croatian representatives in Serbia. According to Selakovic, I quote, it is one of the stupidest and most pointless notes we have ever received. Our foreign minister's answer to that is the villages, the villages, that it's terrible, that it's outrageous, as Selakovic replied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42385	We're going to another debate. National Minority Representatives' Club and dear colleague Robert Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42386	Dear Mr. President, esteemed secretary of state, esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives Club has very carefully studied the report, which is our agenda point today. So the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia as the main institutional link between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is extremely important for the National Minority Representatives Club and indeed, if there is a club that has always supported the work of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it is my opinion that it is us. In this Report, if in the first part of their presentation they can deal with these 4 points that I considered particularly important to highlight, so 6 programmes that are most important in the Report of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that is, support to the Croatian people in BiH, support to the Croatian national minority of 12 European countries, so these are the countries of Serbia, Hungary, Slovenia, Montenegro, the Czech Republic, Italy, Austria, Kosovo, Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia, then the programme to support Croatian communities in emigration. Then we have special importance, I consider the funding programme of special needs and projects of interest for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia because it is clear that especially in the light of all these problems, which we hear here, clearly some very important projects cannot be implemented either through public calls or through public tenders, so were the Croatian House in Vojvodina, as well as the headquarters of the Croatian Word in Subotica. So this, there is a very important part and it is very important for the future of relations, it is a program, so a scholarship program for members of the Croatian people, with a special emphasis on the increased number of enrolment quotas for these students at Croatian universities and a programme for Croatian language learning in Croatia for Croats outside the Republic. So these 6 segments that include the foundation of what the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia does, I consider to be a good and excellent foundation, especially knowing the personal majority of colleagues working there. When we look at the second important segment of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, this is finance, indeed, in 2019 about 70 million kuna, only through the Central State Office, for about 240 projects, 90 in BiH, 150 outside BiH, so it is clear that the progress made compared to previous years is visible, clear, financial I can add, my comment that with these amounts is another zero, Mr. Secretary of State, then we would also support it. I therefore believe that the progress in funding is good, however, there is certainly room because knowing the Croatian communities around, I know there are a lot of programmes that would deserve even more funding. As for one of the offices of the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia, it is the Office of Welcome to the Croatian Returnees, which in 2019 helped the new 88 Croatian citizens, which is an extremely important undertaking. What may be particularly important to emphasise, here in previous discussions and replicas, is therefore institutionalised co-operation bilaterally between the Republic of Croatia and the countries with which bilateral agreements on mutual protection of minorities exist, there are 5. For now, we're hoping there'll be six with the R. Czech Republic soon. So this is from 1995 with Hungary, 1996 with Italy, 2004 with Serbia, 2007 with Northern Macedonia and 2009 with Montenegro. I think the five agreements signed so far influenced both Croatian rights in these countries, of course always with difficulty but it can't, but also on the rights of those minorities here in the Republic of Croatia, one of which is my, therefore the Hungarian minority and we really believe that in the past 5 years, the adoption of operational programmes for national minorities, that from 2016 to 2020, as well as the new ones from 2021 to 2024, has really affected the better understanding of the needs of national minorities here in the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that we have more space, even for progress, but we consider it an extremely important message to the surrounding rights of Croatians in those countries, that it can also be that what we are trying and doing here in Croatia is all we can, institutionalising that support, so that we also ensure that Croatians who live in countries with whom Croatia have signed a bilateral agreement. I consider it necessary here, given the rather negative context of the previous one, to point out that I may best know the Croatian community that lives in Hungary, here I think it is good for the entire atmosphere to stress that the Croats in Hungary according to the list 10 years ago have 26 774, they are unofficially hard, I am and personally good with them is the Hungarian community in Croatia and the Croatian community in Hungary for decades provide excellent relations, I believe that there are many more, but as such they did not write on the list of populations and annually only for 2019 is the central organisation of the Croatian community in Hungary which is called the Croatian State Self-Government in Hungary, therefore approved by the Government of Hungary for their programmes 48 million kn normative and all goes through Croatian self-government which has founding rights over schools in Croatian, which is called the Croatian government in Hungary, here for perhaps those who do not know about their programmes 48 million kn in the Croatian community, then the Croatian institutions in Croatia's capital, so that they are located in Croatia's capital, the Croatian institutions in Croatia's capital, so in Croatia's capital park, so the Croatian center of Croatia's capital, Croatia's capital park, Croatia's capital park, the town, the town of Croatia's capital, the town, the town of Croatia's*. So we're talking about an extremely well-organized minority that the Hungarian government is very, very generously saying, normically, 48 million kunas were in 2018 and I don't know, I haven't received data in the last two years, it certainly isn't less. I also find it very important to point out that the issue of the HNK in Pečuh, which was built in the value of some 3 million euros and opened in 2019, seems grand indeed, I call on all those who have the opportunity to go to see it, we have succeeded through the operational programme for the Hungarian national minority in Croatia 2019, which is also an important role, so... So the national minorities in Osijek in the educational cultural centre of Hungary, open a student home, how important it was that the opening was, that both prime ministers attended, so also our Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Orban. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important is that we may point out another problem that we cannot solve for the Croatian community in Hungary, so here, let me be their lawyer today, so this is the object issue, using the Vlasici facility on the island of Pag where every summer very important education is conducted just 6 so that the learning of Croatian language, Mr. Milas of course knows every detail of this, so I call on the Central State Office, oh, forgive the Ministry of State Property to help solve this problem by Croats in Hungary. As for the legal and political problems raised with neighbouring countries, I would like to stress that the National Minorities' Club and the problems of Croatian people and Croatian minorities feels the same way we feel about the inequality of the Croatian people in BiH on the issue of the special election of their representative in the presidency, where Bosniaks choose Croatian representatives, the issue of the particularly current problem of the rebel language, so far only in Subotica, I hope nothing further than that, and I hope that we will also manage to resolve this by political means, i.e. the special non-recognition of the Croatian minority in Slovenia, although progress with the possibility of declaring as Croats on the upcoming census of the population is a very important improvement and I congratulate everyone who participated in this. Where can the Club of Representatives of National Minorities or I personally possibly be able to, Secretary of State help? I ask you to address us and the least we can do is support this report and please just move on bravely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42387	Thank you. We are going to the third debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42388	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Croatians have one of the largest diaspora compared to the number of inhabitants, similar to that of Ukraine, Poland, Ireland and according to all statistics, there are more of us outside the Republic of Croatia than in the country itself. Unfortunately, in the last 30 years, the razor of the Croats has been reduced both in the country and in the eviction. And despite the fact that the last 10 000 Croats left Croatia with a bread belly and settled Western European countries, the number of Croats in the global emigration has also decreased. The reasons may even be simple, clean assimilation when you live somewhere for 50, 100 or several hundred years, and that Croatian national minority is no exception to other national minorities, as far as assimilation is concerned over many years. However, here I would like to highlight two problems, which is the problem of the Croatian people in BiH as a constituent people, where unfortunately we failed to resolve the main issues, is the issue of the election of the Croatian presidency member, we failed to resolve the insurance of the Croatian television programme in BiH and the number of Croats in BiH after the Homeland War has dropped dramatically, especially in Central Bosnia, where we literally fell to the national minority level and I am afraid that our descendants will only learn in books that the Bosnian cradle of Croats is if this trend continues. Another problem is Croatia's problem in R. Serbia, more specifically Vojvodina. At one time, in 1981, a population of 109 thousand Croats lived on the list in Vojvodina. Today, according to the last 2011 census, the number of Croats has been reduced to only 57,000. It's about an area where there's never been a war. Let us remember the 1990s, the large Serbian policies of Slobodan Milosevic, the human migration conducted by war criminal Vojislav Seselj, where nearly 40,000 Croats left the area of Srijem. Let's remember places like Gibarac, Kukavci, Khrtkovci, Slankamen, Nikinci, Golubinci, places where the Croats used to be 30, 50, and somewhere even 90%. There's only trace of them today. Let us also remember Subotica, as I have already said, in the early 20th century, the city with the most Croats on the globe of the Earth, even a few thousand more than in Zagreb, let us remember the Petrovadin where the Croats were once over 98%. But as if that wasn't enough Serbian politics either, they decided in the 1990s to crush the National Croatian Corps by offering next to Croatian nationality, another nation, so to speak. The last nail in the coffin is happening, here, the last few weeks when the procedure was launched in the Subotic municipality assembly where the rebel language should become the official language in addition to the Hungarian, Serbian and Croatian languages so far. One fictional, conditional language, one dialect of Croatian language, and all linguisticists and Croatian and Serbian, this is confirmed. However, Serbia's official state policy, as well as their representatives, primarily the Serbian Progressive Party in Subotica, continues to implement this policy. Croatia has sent a protest note, Serbia's state policy has literally laughed at that protest note, and if we allow the rebel language to become official in the area of Subotica, no one should ever put in our mouths that R. Serbia is a friendly country to us. Friends don't do that to each other. What would Alexander Vukic and R. Serbia do if the Republic of Serbia offered in national mixed environments, such as Banish as the official language or the Cordunese or the Vlachs? What would a colleague of Milorad Pupovac do? The whole EU would probably know about it and get a puck right away and be smaller than a cat's grain, not even thinking about what to do. Unfortunately, R. Serbia continues to implement its policy of tickling and crumbling the Croatian National Corps in Vojvodina. I really think that, Secretary of State Miles, you're doing a good job, but I also think that simply this office must have much more power. I expect that in due course you will become a ministry because Croatia needs an emigration ministry with a much larger budget, with much greater powers, where you will be able to gold Croatian villages in Vojvodina with only a few dozen million kunas. You today in the 21st century have in the vicinity of Subotica, for example in Žednik, Tavankut, paved roads. You know what they are? These are your ground roads with no asphalt, no fucks. The whole of Croatia knows that there are villages in Croatia that have no electricity and that is the shame of this country. It is also a shame for Serbia's predominantly populated Croatian villages to have their way around. So if R. Serbia won't, let's do it. Let's secure more resources in the state budget for the state, Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, let's gold these villages with only a few dozen million kunas and preserve the Croatian community in Vojvodina. We can often see ourselves here in R. Hungary in the way they protect their national minority, in which they help their national minority, encouraging measures by craftsmen, farmers, all those attending Hungarian kindergartens, Hungarian schools and that is the example that Croatia needs to go to, only this Central State Office needs greater powers and what is even more important more financial resources and then we can preserve what little Croats are left in the Vojvodina area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42389	Mr. Ante Pracachin will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, before I look back at what I read and heard from you, Mr. Secretary of State, to look back at the exposure of my two predecessors, young Croatian talented politicians, and remember the time when I was like Pavlovich for one 35, six years, so if I spoke before someone older, and told a part of what he was planning to say, then you would say you ate my discussion, you and Rasputic ate me a little discussion, but that's nice to me. I can adapt, so don't repeat what you two did well, but I will, well, when I commended you two, I must thank the two colleagues of the Homeland Movement Club here, Mr. Bartulic, the president of the Representatives' Club, also the president of the Homeland Movement Mr. Skorri who honored me and my trust is to speak on this subject, and they've prepared the two and they've prepared good speeches, they've prepared good speeches both of them and they've given me a chance. When I saw that the Strategy was inside, and it might have been a reason for them to trust me because that Strategy was through the war and through the military was something closer, so I first asked Mr. Secretary of State for what I heard and read, to see if we had a strategy that would protect Croats outside the Republic and I didn't find it in the preface, and I didn't find it in your presentation either. I found something on the first page, here's to be authentic, which is very interesting, and that's why I asked that parliamentary question. You say, three meetings of the intergovernmental mixed committees on the protection of national minorities with the Serbian, Macedonian and Hungarian delegation were successfully held, and so I asked whether what the Bosnians would say was held in the dwarves or with each one, so this is what, since it was held with each one in particular, I prefer it much more. Even though the fact that I'm upset with two decent, friendly states, I mean Northern Macedonia, and that's what I think about Hungary, how much time I have, I can devote, through history, we've been hanging out with everyone, the least evil we've ever had in the common state were Hungarians. So, with two friendly and decent states, the third one is completely irrational to us hostile Serbia, and then I get a little distracted by this story, or in the text, reports that successful sessions have been held. Now, if I were a cynic, then I'd ask what it means to be successful? Were those scheduled on the agenda as God commands or were some success after these sessions? So do we see what's going on in Serbia? So, it is successfully carried out over the Croats ethnic cleansing as well as best colleague Pavicek said, by introducing a non-existent rebel language, it also goes with the complete annulment of the Croatian entity. That's not an accident. It's a project. The project started 3 years ago, I think it was 2018 when it was their famous exhibition in the UN, and then the movie went on afterwards, and then Jasenovac came to visit. I understand that you enter Jasenovac in the 8th month. When that camp worked, I understand that it enters Jasenovac at 4. I mean, but what they had was the newly elected patriarch of Porphyria, the papal bishop, is this episcope or the archbishop, I don't know, what they had to do in Jasenovac? And be careful, they came to visit the monastery in Jasenovac. Well, I studied those Serbian monasteries. Have any of you heard of the monastery in Jasenovac? By 2000, I was looking for, by 2000, it was a little church that was turned into a monastery for political reasons. I don't know if you know that the Serbian Orthodox Church is buying a lot of land after Jasenovac. Do we know he's preparing a mausoleum on the other side of Sava in Gradina? It all has clear political messages, it has clear political goals. And this demonization and dehumanization of Croats, it is with the aim of having an ordinary Serb, one or another, mad at us Croatians because all of that, I said 15 days ago, crimes, and there are Serbian world champions who did in the Balkan wars, who did it in II. svt. The war, all that they did, and it was well described by Dimitria Tucovic and other European writers, they attribute it to us, and it is normal for that half-written Serb to hear something like that to go wild and then suffer the pressure of that unfortunate minority of ours, and it can't be explained to people that, so the Croats in Serbia and in the historical Croatian country, when the hour of history comes we will see when this Vojvodina became theirs, when Belgrade became theirs. In the historic Croatian country, the Croats did not look at the Serbs with the wrong eye, and they slaughtered us in the Homeland War... Watch out, I'm reading the other day, 75 victims in Baćin, and look, victims of the Homeland War, and look how many Croats were killed in this Bacin for II. svt. The war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we must, Croatian politics must at all times be able to convey what is most important, and that is that it is a Serbian crime and rationalism of the historical category, but I do not want to waste time, I have to hurry to something else. The largest kiks of Croatian politics lately, actually two are kicks. One was signed in 2002 with the Serbian Orthodox Church, and another was complete political illiteracy when there was no idea what was going on in Montenegro. The Montenegrin Parliament has 81 members. You know who ruled? We in Montenegro had the power of the most friendly country in the environment we had in Montenegro. Instead, a team of those who shelled Dubrovnik came to power, who destroyed Konavle, who committed slaughter in eastern Herzegovina and in Dubrovnik's hinterland, and because of Croatian non-chalantism and political illiteracy. If Croatia had conducted the right talks and contacts and communication with the Croats because the Croatian vote has ruled, the Serbs, the Serbian agent has inserted its agent to break up the Croatian electoral body instead of having a member in the Assembly before, we do not have it now and therefore the situation in Montenegro is as it is. We, on the other hand, must really enter into the history of Serbian-Montenegrin relations, so half of the people think it's a Serbian story, that Montenegro is Serbia's Sparta. Croats have been fighting Serbs for one 80 years, and Montenegrins have been fighting Serbs for eight hundred years. The first battle was in 1042, the famous Battle of Tudemil when Duklja was left alone and became the first state. And let me tell you, I'm not going to make it, there are three states and three history in the Balkans, these are in the first place, Bulgarians, Croats, and then the Montenegrins come. So, what's going on? In 1042, as the Byzantine vases, the prince of Hum, the mayor of Rashan and the Bosnian ban attacked Duklja, who is self-resisting, Duklja managed to stand alone. Only later, Stevan Nemanja, 1183, with a sword of fire, destroyed Duklje that the Turks did not come. Between Montenegro, later Montenegro and Serbia would be endless wars but I must take advantage of the opportunity, be careful what they do, Montenegrins? 26. 11 when it ends, 26. 11th of the end of the I. St. The war, the so-called war. The podgorical congregation where C. Gori takes the state, they take the congregation, they take the nation. After that comes Christmas uprising, the massacre of Montenegrins was committed by Serbs, worse than by any other people. It's something to know, such stands should have been held in C. Gora, so explain to the Croats what this is about, here's my slow time running out, but I think I've said the most important things. So this strategy, Mr. Secretary of State, the war strategy... how many weapons, resources, etc., this strategy, needs a history for it to see where we are, what we are and how we are, who we have in the environment and then bring one strategic plan after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, I'll probably say one more thing in a single speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42391	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42392	Grazie, vice presidents The relationship with Croats outside Croatia would be characterised as occasionally positive, but mostly unconstitutional, insufficient, dominant towards the HDZ in BiH rather than towards the Croats in BiH and rather anakron in terms of and concept of our emigrant communities. [[Intruder Radin: Prego, prego.]] First, I'd focus on what we consider positive. And that primarily refers to cultural cooperation and academic cooperation. The reconstruction of the house of Ban Jelačić in Petrovaradin and Ljudevita breed in Ljubljana certainly contributes to the emancipation of our Croats in their homelands, just as academic cooperation and numerous scholarships do. Yet, more than criticism today would like to open some questions. First of all, there is a question of relations to that part of the evicted Croatia that is sometimes called the new diaspora. The current policies towards Croats outside Croatia are based on political and traditional identity building and connecting traditional evicted communities with Croatia, which in itself does not have to be bad, but it is unambitious because modern Croatia is much more than traditional and rural culture. Croatia is both urban and modern, too. Moreover, normative approaches to identity simply do not correspond to the reality in which we live. Croatia continues to build its modern identity in all its aspects. In that sense, we understand the orientation towards tradition, that's the part behind us, which is mostly unquestioned. However, the move away from embezzling our collection in relation to Croats outside Croatia is simply unambitious and unimaginative. These unambitiousness and orientation towards tradition, especially come at the expense of the relationship to the new diaspora because they are people who do not have to meet our culture and customs. These are the people who left their homeland recently, and they did it for different reasons than our old diaspora. This is also the subject of a series of research carried out over the last few years. One of the frequent messages we hear from politicians is that it's a lot of work to get these people back to Croatia. This approach certainly does not contribute to that goal. Messages such as that of Minister Tramišak, who recently said that EU funds will be used to return to Croatia for the new diaspora, can only cause ridicule in these people. Justified. These people only partially left Croatia with bread. And much more since life in a country that ignores its deep social problems such as widespread corruption and unbearable social tensions has become unacceptable. In other words, they left more because of politicians and politicians who think that the EU funds are some kind of panacea for all evil than because of lack of love for their country or low wages, which are certainly not a small problem. With all the messages about the desire to return to the new diaspora, this government does nothing to make it happen. First of all, because the new diaspora refuses to understand. As things stand, there's nothing you can do to convince these people to come back. And frankly, it's best that you don't even try because you could get the effect opposite of who you want. The next question I want to ask concerns the obvious politicism and asymmetricity of the policy focus towards Croats outside Croatia. It is clear that the focus on the HDZ's attitude towards the HDZ in BiH is not on the entire Croatian community in the country. You can also see this in the gap between the reality that the government is trying to paint when it tells us about all the funds invested in the well-being of the Croatian community in BiH and the sums that in its comment were painted by fellow Kujundzic, namely that despite everything, Croatians are leaving BiH. They rarely do so with Croatian passports, and while some of these people come to Croatia, a part just like Croatians from Croatia, extends their journey to some other countries. To avoid confusion, we do not deny anyone the right to travel with our passport or passport. We obviously consider the failure of the policy towards BiH problematic. With much authority, my colleague Rasdic spoke and I would only add to his words what we disagree on, which is that Croatia's policy towards BiH should build on the inclusion and idea of a civil state rather than nationalism that has proved so toxic and unsuccessful in the last 30 years. The civil state does not mean a Muslim state and will not mean that if Croatia engages in equality of the Croatian community in civil BiH. Finally, I would like to highlight another problem that contributes to Croatia's failure to protect the rights and status of the Croatian minority in other countries, which is the lack of systematic, integrated approach and foreign policy based on data on problems. We closely monitored how the government reacted in recent examples of the silently approving relationship between the official Serbia and the attacks on the Croatian community. And I'm very sorry to have to say that he is exclusively reactive and with rare exceptions in the field of culture, almost never proactive. The political doctrine of Vuciceva, points out that Vucic's Serbia does not step forward in protecting our minority or in finding missing persons until they have no direct benefit, as they did when negotiations were to be unblocked several years ago, so one person was convicted of war crimes, found conscience and decided to discover the location of a mass grave in Sotin. If we want to achieve steps to protect the rights and status of Croats outside Croatia, in the future we will have to build our policies and approach to one other than now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42393	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Zdravka Busic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42394	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to begin this presentation on behalf of the club on historical circumstances. In fact, historical circumstances and centuries of migration have done, we have heard this several times today, indeed made Croatian people one of the few people who counts almost equal numbers of people in and outside the country. And that is why it is extremely important that we take care of the work of that Croatian people beyond its borders institutionally. And I don't think that in this approach, we really shouldn't be pouring out the bile somehow, that we should have a little bit more understanding, and I would say almost totally one consensual approach. In order for the strategy of these concerns not to remain unrealised and to ensure one quality, I would say a platform that will address these different needs of members of the Croatian people throughout, the activities of this Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia is indeed I would say of a very exceptional and great importance. In 2019, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees special care and protection to all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Office continued to work towards achieving and achieving the objectives and tasks defined by the strategy and the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Equal attention in this work is also devoted to all our communities outside the Republic of Croatia, given all their specificities. The Croatians in BiH are the strategic interest of the Croatian Republic, which we point out permanently and will never stop stressing, such as connecting and strengthening relations with Croats in BiH, preserving their equality and strengthening Croatia's identity in the country. As the report submitted by State Secretary Zvonko Milas shows, a significant shift has been made in terms of more concrete and continuous support for both strategic institutions and other major programmes and projects in BiH. This support is visible not only through enhanced funding but also through visible engagement in the BiH area, wherever the Croatian people live. This is especially evident through direct cooperation and regular visits by members or representatives, I would say to all governmental authorities of the Republic of Croatia. such a direct insight into the current needs and difficulties facing Croats in BiH is the best basis for long-term conditions, for quality sustainable stay, but also for the development of all areas of life and all areas of life for Croats in BiH. We continue to support projects from the area as we have already pointed out, here it has often been highlighted several times, the area of the highest education, science, culture, infrastructure, etc. Today we build schools, kindergartens, roads, health homes, hospitals, student and homes for elderly and powerless people. And of course, there has already been a lot of emphasis on how important support is, especially recently, to the media in Croatian. We particularly welcome the support of projects that enable the creation of new jobs, and this has been highlighted several times, these are areas, projects in the field of tourism and agriculture, which, in line with the natural potential of BiH, can indeed be drivers of the development of the whole region, here I am talking specifically about Posavina, Herzegovina and central Bosnia. Nearly 100 joint projects from these areas are guarantees of the long-term survival of Croats in BiH. Education as the fundamental prosperous future of one nation is one of the most important areas that is continuously and systematically supported. And the secretary of state stressed that, and I agree, we absolutely agree that education is one of the important and the first things and assumptions. By building these, as well as by setting up additional equipment for existing schools, student and student homes and sports halls, young people are actually provided with appropriate conditions for learning and studying in the environments in which they live, which motivates them to stay in their home country or BiH. Significant support for the remnant of young people, we see in the programme of scholarship of students, Croatians studying in BiH, it was also discussed, every year, now, meaning it rose to even 100%, there are 400 students studying in BiH. All with the support of the Croatian government. Through the support of various cultural projects, the strengthening of Croatian cultural identity and their actuality is being passed on to young generations where the unquestioned belonging of this... identity of one European cultural circle and space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The need to build children's kindergartens, which the Republic of Croatia strongly supported, is also a living indicator of the Croatian wishes in BiH that they see their future in BiH. Projects of transport and other infrastructures needed by Croatian returnees are supported and those who want to return what is particularly important for Republika Srpska where they rarely get the support of local and entity authorities for their projects. It is known that there is a deficit in the Croatian language in BiH and we know how important the media is in terms of further democratisation of society or public sensitisation of certain issues of general good. We have therefore provided support for the Croatian portal network and better technical equipment for Herceg Bosnia Radiotelevision. I would like to remind you that in 2019 the signing of a contract with support users was held in BiH at the premises of the Franciscan monastery of the Blessed Virgin Mary in... 6 September 2019, whose renovation is also supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This practice took place a year earlier in the Knights in central Bosnia. Finally, through all these programmes and projects and in fact co-operation with BiH associations and institutions is being realized, the government of the Republic of Croatia is indeed showing one unconditional and persistent concern for all Croats in the BiH area, and I would say, indeed, not all of them as partyly as we have heard here. As far as the Croatian minority is concerned, strong support is visible to the institutions and associations of the Croatian national minority in 12 European countries, which is characterized by their own systematicity, and I really think that we can be proud that this Central State Office is working on the subject. In cooperation with Croatian ambassadors, the Central State Office held a public tender in 2019 for programmes and projects of associations, institutions and organisations of the Croatian national minority in 12 European countries through which they were granted a total of 5 million kn, which is a 67% increase compared to 2016. With this competition and activities of the Croatian community... [[I am, thank you very much, ma'am.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42395	Mrs. Zdravka, they're giving me a sign that you've been through half a minute. ... Thank you very much. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you, sorry, thank you very much. [[/Intruding Busic: Okay, I'll move on. Thank you very much.]] My bad. Thank you. It is now up to Mr Arsen Bauk to present the opinion of the SDP Representatives' Club on this report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42396	Is there a bigger paradox, colleagues and colleagues that we are discussing the project Slavonia, therefore, about Croatians in Croatia at a deaf time of night and we are discussing the report of the Croatian Office outside Croatia in order to put it in Croatian, in prime time? I think that's enough for an introduction. So, apart from the annual report of the Croatian Office outside the Republic of Croatia, a similar debate is always repeated when we talk about the implementation of the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. So, this is one such regular analysis of the foreign relations between the Republic of Croatia and its two neighbours, with several more free characters, where we mention a new diaspora, where we mention Croatians in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Macedonia, etc., but most of the debate applies to Croats in BiH and to Croats in Serbia if there is an incident situation, and usually this is how it happens. So in this, in the debates of clubs we started from the Battle of Tudjemil several hundred years ago between Duklja and Serbia, and we ended up in chitism, a good expression of Nino, so on the behaviour of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, who was recently Minister of the Republic of Croatia, as regards Croats in BiH. So, a very wide, very wide diapazone and really for 10 minutes is not this enough. So I will remain on three topics, so the Croats' position in Montenegro, Serbia and BiH. When we talk about it then we must be aware that those we talk about are also Croats in Montenegro, BiH and Serbia, but all citizens of those countries love to hear what we think of them as we follow what they say about Croatia and react to it. So when we speak in this sense, it is not enough to address only the Croats, but also those most dependent on them, and that is the government in those countries, whether the position of Croats will be better or worse. So, as far as Montenegro is concerned, I am very pleased that Mr. Prkačin has described the authority that advocates quoting, civil secular and anti-fascist Montenegro as friendly Croatia. That is one thing, I am very pleased with that and I am glad that Mr. Prkachin also sees civil, secular and anti-fascist Croatia as a friend of the civil, secular and anti-fascist Montenegro and of Montenegro I will not go on. Yes, so the Croats needed HGI or their rival party to receive 0.35% of the vote to join the Montenegrin parliament. The one term could, but mathematically he would not take it because he would take the DPS to change the parliamentary majority and today the government in Montenegro would be different. As far as Croatians are concerned, HGI has been on the DPS list so far, entered Croatia, into the Montenegro Assembly, and now it has come out on its own and has not received enough votes, something was missing, some decimals. Serbia, in Serbia's power is the SNS which is a member of the European People's Party, joined, so colleagues from the HDZ are yours. And the Democratic Union of the Croats of Vojvodina entered the assembly on the list of the Democratic Party of the Associated Party of the European Socialists, therefore ours. Right? That's what the facts say. Croatia should strongly condemn all aggressive acts against members of the Croatian minority in Serbia and any aggressive acts against minority members in Croatia of all nationalities. In that sense, counterpart Glavasevic mentioned certain cultural steps, so this house of Ban Jelačić, some things have been improved there, but I believe it is because it is in the interest of the government in Serbia. As far as the Bunjevci story is concerned, the situation is interesting. I even see one crisis of the identity of the Croatian right. Namely, part of Croatians in Croatia claim that they are not Croats but Yugoslavs, although they plead as Croats. And for a part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not declare themselves Croats, they claim to be Croats. What a paradox. Now, if they are Croats, that's their matter, their declaration of freedom. Namely, 7.8.2018. The Bunjevac Baba Alliance has asked to be declared a zero act in 1945, which all Bunjevci consider to be Croats regardless of their personal statements. Namely, May 14, 1945. The main National Liberation Committee of Vojvodina has adopted a declaration by which the Bunjeci and the Shocks must, be careful to plead as Croats. I must admit that I am quite surprised that the foreign policy of an independent, sovereign, independent, democratic Republic of Croatia has returned to the trail of communist authorities since 14 May '45. It's another paradox to which we witness when we talk about others. I'm also not sure that we know what was going on at the western borders of our former common state in May of '45 and after that on the crossroads after May '45. with the Croats. So it turns out, and with other of these collaborationists, regardless of nationality. So, now it turns out you're careful that in the west, the number of Croats has been reduced violently, and the number of Croats has increased in the east violently, and that's not how it works. The story of the Bunjevci is a story long before both Vukic and Serbia and the former Yugoslavia. If anyone wants to, if someone claims to be a Croat, why would they care about him? Why would the Republic of Croatia care about him? What is interesting is that some of these Bunjevac leaders, according to Croatia, received Croatian citizenship because they pleaded as Croats, and that should be reconsidered. But if you're going to be rebels, be if you're going to be Eskimos. As far as I'm concerned, we will take care of the Croats if you say you are not Croats, why should Croatia care about them unless there is an aggressive policy of forcing someone to plead otherwise from the country of origin. But then we're not talking about the rebels, then we're talking about them directly. But it's not from today, it's 100 years old if not anymore. So it's a part of the Catholic population in Bačka who doesn't want to say for himself that the Croats are special, they're not Serbs because they're not Orthodox, but they want to, okay, and, as a matter of fact, their representatives sometimes charge those who plead to Croats not enough to protect them from Ustashaisation. And in the end of BiH, two minutes and I'll be very short. I consider my colleague Rasudiæ that Zeljko Komsic is not the second but the first Bosniak member of the presidency, the second is the one who received fewer votes. So he is not less valuable because the Croat is to be the second Bosniak member of the presidency. However, the issue is interesting, for example, of the situation of Bosniaks not in BiH, but in Croatia no one spoke of it. The Bosniak national minority is the second in number of its members, so the Serb has 180, Bosniak 31, and then Italians and Albanians by 17 thousand per census. And the Bosniaks in Croatia do not have the right to choose their own representative, they do not have a representative in the Croatian Parliament but they choose, interesting. Why? I don't know. The story of BiH's internal structure, therefore in every democratic one, and how those from Sarajevo would like to tell the normal state, fate is determined in the country's elections. And everyone is aware that the fate of this country is the most determined in the elections in other countries. In doing so, I don't think of neighbors anymore than these great powers of the world. The greater expectations of a part of the BiH population have been since Joe Biden's election as president of the United States than of any of the three BiH presidency members who should manage as they should. So the story of BiH is very complicated, any word and expression can have these incendiary consequences, and very few words can have calming, dying consequences. In 12 seconds, it's very difficult to say a lot of words with dying consequences, so I would like to say that the SDP Club takes note of this report and we will propose such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42397	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42398	My colleagues and colleagues, after this general insight into the speech on behalf of the club about the unfortunate situation in which the Central State Office for Croatians is located outside Croatia because it has limited powers and resources, and must be responsible for Croatian foreign policy failures, I will move a little on to concrete examples. I said that Croats in BiH need political support first and foremost. Political support in defence of constitutionality, equality, which stands on the basis of the BiH state, more specifically the Annex 4 of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is being established as the constitution of the neighbouring state. They don't need charity. Wrongly, in the Croatian public, it is constantly interpreted that Croats in BiH are exhausting through this assistance of the Republic of Croatia in reality is quite different. BiH is the only country with which Croatia is achieving a truly serious surplus in trade. And if we look at the few ways of this trade scale, a good part of it is being placed through Croats in BiH who in some things went against both interests and their own and their own counties and the state of BiH with the interests of Croatia and HEP, for example, the Busko mud that I do not go on now. It's not an incompetent people who need charity, here's a couple of examples I can think of, you in Gruds have a printing press in which books are printed for French schools. So, in the international competition, they beat all French printers and in Gruds, part of the French school textbooks are printed. There's a factory in Shiroki Brijeg that manufactures aluminium profiles for German trains. We have this man from Kresev in a few years after the war we had a miracle of economics among the Croats in the enclaves in central Bosnia, in Kresevo there were no unemployed, none, no unemployed man was in Kresevo. The collapse and political rights in BiH have also led to economic collapse. Of course, that part of responsibility has both a corrupt part and part of it and an incompetent political elite of the Croats in BiH does not gather it, but the main problem is, for example, the distribution of funds collected by tax and unfair coefficients. It is something that affects not only the Croatian landscapes in BiH but affects one Tuzla or Bihac compared to Sarajevo that I am not getting too into these topics now. What am I saying? That the political support of the Croats in BiH, so where they will be safe by changing the electoral law above all, will be able to influence the laws and distribution of tax funds and other things, and not that we are coming to the situation that two Bosniak members of the presidency of Komsic and Djaferovic wanted to suspend the international lawsuit of building the Pelješka Bridge, so Milorad Dodik saved us from some ties and trades with it, he vetoed imagine and the veto passed by the Republika Srpska Assembly, a veto on the decision of the two to block the Peljeski Bridge. That's our situation. So without legitimate representatives of Croats in BiH, Croatia is at risk both economically and geostrategically. The Croats in BiH need to repeat, above all, the political support of the Republic of Croatia, and here is the example of our Dick staff, Marija Pejcinović Buric, who, a few months after going to the head of the Council of Europe, forgets who she is and what she was saying, and we see her party doing so. As for Serbia, Croats there do not have a guaranteed representative in the assembly. Once elected through civil lists, this time in the last elections there is no such thing, so there are no representatives of Croats in the assembly. I agree with Arsen Bauk that there is no coercion on identity. However, the atmosphere in Serbia needs to be seen. So, if the constant exorcism of Ustasha spirit from the Croatian government in Serbia, here is Dara from Jasenovac and this last defamation of Stepinac and everything else, you are all Ustasha, and is offered to this endangered Croat in Vojvodina the possibility of him expressing himself as a Bunjevac and will probably slip away towards that rebellion. So, in the normal atmosphere, of course let him plead if he feels that the Bunjevac is not a Croat, he is a Bunjevac, all right. But let's see what kind of atmosphere this is going on in and what we can do from Croatia to fix this atmosphere. They laugh, Serbia's leader makes fun of Croatian diplomatic notes. I will repeat, says Selakovic, that the Croatian note after the death threat to Croatian political representatives in Vojvodina says it is one of the stupidest and most pointless notes we have received so far, so they communicate with us. So imagine that the beating is in their hand, not in ours because they want to join the EU, we can set some vetoes there. Of course we won't because the Muti Merkel has ordered you to hug and make out with the Wolf, he's good now, it's not the Wolf anymore, you have to, who, who, on the playground when two kids make themselves hug and kiss by force, it's our political reality. It doesn't have to be, mine isn't, Plenkovic obviously is. And there are no representatives of Croats in the assembly in Montenegro after these elections. It is unfortunate that the government of Mile Djukanovic would not be happy if now the Croats of Montenegro determined that it would be Milo, had a man his political history and history and aggression on Dubrovnik, everything that happened later and should not be forgotten. I find Kosovo problematic, Janjevo and the Yearbook. In Janjevo a few hundred people remained, in the Yearbook a few dozen, mostly old people exposed to constant and physical attacks and criminals and so forth. So can our great friends from Kosovo who we so support provide at least the safety of those dozens of elders in the Yearbook and a few hundred people in Janjevo at least from these criminals to defend them? Here's if we can remind them, so do something for these people, protect them. In Slovenia, Croats are not recognised as a national minority. What can we do about the fact that there is a category “Croatian” on the list? We cannot blackmail them by entering the EU, but perhaps in a different way I think we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42399	Thank you, thank you. Stay because you've got replicas, Mrs. President. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42400	I would refer to this scandalous ignoring of the Assembly Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia, or your question and answer to Mrs. Pejcinović Buric. In that sense, my question is, if we accept the fact that it has detached itself from this country and has led such important institutions as the Council of Europe and there implements a policy that is at least declarative to the Croats of BiH contrary to what our authority is nominally responsible for, should we expect and if we have the right to expect a reaction from the competent authorities in Croatia and to refer to the diplomatic note of Mrs. Pejcinović Buric for this kind of treatment, as well as the actions of the person mentioned earlier in this context, who participated in the work of her office?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42401	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42402	I am sure that at the head of the Council of Europe there is a person from Bulgaria, from the Netherlands or from Italy who has made it clear to this question whether what Poirot has declared to be the official position of your Council of Europe in order for people to answer us "is", "is not", "is not entirely" and the rest, and Mrs. Pejcinović Buric, for whom all Croatian diplomacy for her lobbying has been extended for half a year, gives himself the right not to answer that question at all, but to give us a statement on the European Court of Human Rights rulings as if we don't know it. But that's good to see, especially here are three representatives of BiH's HDZ, this is the first time most of them depend on you, the three of you can knock down this majority, you can make them run a policy that will help the Croats in BiH. You should come back tomorrow among those people downstairs and look into their eyes. Here I publicly say to the Croats in BiH, the Council of Europe is directly seeking to undermine the BiH Constitution and abolish the constitutionality that is the last defence of the rights of Croats in BiH. This defends the HDZ's position at the head of the Council of Europe, the HDZ's representatives hold most of yours, that's what I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42403	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42404	Thank you very much. Kola Rasudiæ, Vucic's party that basically does everything to erase the Croats from the Vojvodina area, where we have no more representatives, the Croatian people have no parliament in Serbian, nor in Vojvodina, regional and smaller parliaments. So it's all done to suppress itself. It is inexplicable to me, too, if you can explain that HDZ is together in the popular party with Vucic's Chetnik party, as it is called at all insignificant, he is a apprentice of Chetnic, that they cannot establish contact with him and that they finally agree on the 2004 Treaty, is in this way good or you say that they have bad relations with Serbia, they do not water, Vukic and Plenkovic are watering and this government, and they have a good man who is Milorad Pupovac who often goes to Backo Palanko for the days of "Storms" to celebrate at that Chetnic party. What do you think is the solution to the Vojvodina Croats?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42405	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42406	We have recognised each other as a state with Serbia, so I recognise the existence of the Republic of Serbia and the authority they chose to rule there, but I am not obliged to call them friends. Vukic is not our friend, he has a political past, we have footage of his speech in Glina where this poor people are trying to fight their own state, in the end he goes to Belgrade, what happened to these people? He was the right hand of Vojislav Seselj in the Serbian Radical Party. At one point he was at least formally washed, became a favorite above all Angela Merkel, but also another part of the international community, and we should now consider him a friend. A man can change, he can evolve, but apparently from their policies that this evolution has not occurred, that it is the same man with the same attitudes as that of '95. when he's giving a hen's speech in Clay. So there is only force and pressure, and we can partially achieve it because we can condition them the EU's accession path, and this authority does not do it because the muti does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42407	You don't have any more replicas. Ma'am, it's Mrs. Neelix's turn. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, State Secretary, State Secretary and Associates. First of all, I would like to commend the efforts of the state office and the secretary of state in care and care reflected in the Croatians living outside the Republic of Croatia. A lot of useful and important projects have been done. You spoke of them as state secretaries, they are also written in the report, they are spoken of by the Croats I meet, but they will obviously remain a little in the shadow of all other events and problems that are ahead of us and that we need to solve today. Therefore, these discussions should not be taken as insufficient perhaps support and valorisation of the work of the state office because I think we all agree that great efforts are already being made as our expression of concern for further what needs to be done, and in which perhaps we can all contribute together. In order not to interpret that only we here have certain objections to the introduction of the rebel language as official I would quote Saturday director Zoltan Siflis, who is otherwise Hungarian. He said it is difficult to accept another finding except that the rebel language as an independent non-cell, could not be the subject of debate that there is no acceptable grammar or normised spelling and that so far no state academy of science, nor other relevant scientific linguistic institutions have declared rebelling as a specific language. The only thing that's close to the truth is that he's just one of the dialects. The end of the quote. So, this is not, of course, the only problem that Croats in Serbia especially in Vojvodina face, and when I think about them, I would say that on the one hand they should be given credit for courage and strength, and on the other hand, I have mixed feelings of sadness and anger over the life that Croats in the Republic of Serbia still live to submit to daily discrimination and hostility. I have repeatedly reacted to these problems using instruments that I had in the European Parliament and when there was a problem with language, culture, education in native language and when there was a problem with shutting down Radio Subotica, physical violence against members of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, a constant speech of hatred and insults that came from even war criminals and representatives of the Serbian Radical Party Vojislav Seselj sent to representatives of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. I have submitted amendments and sought to point out the many problems facing Croats in Serbia, and also to the fact that criminal charges filed by the Abianovic Brothers Fund have been rejected and that this is just another indicator that the Serbian prosecution will not prosecute crimes against humanity committed on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia against Croats. I also opened the question of the so-called question. The law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in Serbia's war crimes proceedings, and given that the then government of Zoran Milanovic did not want to make a legal analysis of the law, I organised it to be done by the Croatian Academy of Legal Sciences, in the end that analysis was both internationally reviewed and used for the amendments I wrote, and the analysis said that in fact, Serbia took the role of the small Hague and that, in theory and in practice, there is no such a formulation as they did in international criminal law. I met the state structures at the time, but I received a clear answer from the then foreign minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, that in opening EU and Serbian negotiations, Croatia will not put any obstacles. So, we're out of chairs if that's how we can say what I'd like to say to the current government if it's going to be at that opportunity and the stage when Serbia will bring its negotiations to an end don't let these negotiations end. until these problems I've been talking about are solved. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42409	Thank you very much. Mr. Shimičević, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42410	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, here you have said that the office is doing enough and I also think it does, but it can always be better and more because the incomparable love of Croats outside the country for their homeland and we should appreciate it. You spoke of Croats in Vojvodina, they are now going through major crises, we must do everything to protect them. And my question to you, does the Serb community in Croatia make enough for the Croatians to subport since they enjoy all rights here in Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42411	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42412	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević, for your question. I wish the Croats in Serbia had the same rights as the Serbs in Croatia, that is unfortunately not the case and it seems to me that Mr. Zigmanov warned that perhaps a number of problems could be solved if they had their own and representatives in political bodies because then they shouldn't solve these problems on the street since institutionally this is not possible. So I would also consider your replica as one appeal to the Serb national minority in Croatia to show solidarity to the Croatian national minority in Serbia and to help Serbia respect what it has taken over in 2004 through interstate contracts, and so far it has not been realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42413	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Ivana Posavec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42414	I will repeat my apology once again, the Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, State Secretary and Madam of the Central State Office, it is my special pleasure that today we can discuss the implementation of the strategy and the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and not only declareatively, not only as a consideration of reports for the past period but as a detail of the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the area where we live, in the wider area of South East Europe. From this point of view, it is also very important for me to open the issue this year, as I have already said in the replica, of the reference year for the population list in these countries where Croats actually live as members of the national minority. Here we are talking about Croats as members of the national minority in 12 European countries, but unfortunately in the smaller part of the countries with which we have a bilateral agreement on the protection of the Croatian national minority, or with which we have an intergovernmental mixed Committee on Minority Protection. Why am I saying that? Because it seems to me that, regardless of the number of Croats in some countries, their protection reaches a full higher level precisely in countries where we have bilateral agreements because it is certainly the leverage of the country of origin in this case stronger where the foreign and European affairs ministry's diplomacy is directly involved in relations with minorities, especially when we speak from the point of view that the Republic of Croatia is an EU member, and that there are also countries that are still not in which the issue of relations with minorities is an extremely important issue in the EU accession process. And I believe that in this one we can call it bilateral and direct through and the personal involvement of our ambassadors, the ambassadors in these countries can contribute to a better position and understand the needs and positions of the Croatian national minority or Croats. Here I am specifically considering three extremely important countries for the issue of Croats. These are in any case the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, but also Northern Macedonia. I am therefore pleased that after 20 years in northern Macedonia, there will be a census, and I think it is an extremely important political issue, and it is very good that, along with the rest of the recognised national minorities, we have managed to reach out to the Croats in this census and that this will help and strengthen the position of Croats. What further delights me is the fact that a number of successful negotiations and efforts have been realised, but I will also say the promises that determine the position of Croats in neighbouring countries, concerning cultural and national identity, concern issues of language and publishing. At the same time, I am certainly saddened by the fact that our national minorities are aimed at project financing and that their projects often in publishing and that this actually ensures one uncertainty and in this sense we should perhaps try to find a model to provide them with one firmer support so that their projects are not questionable over a year, two or three, but in order for them to develop over a longer period. As far as the position of Croats in Montenegro is concerned, I am pleased to have a new bishop in the Kotar diocese and that this is on the trail of the efforts and demands of the Croats which I think will also contribute to their further statement on the Catholic Croats and that we will, in fact, help all together with our engagement to make the Croatian national minority on the list that follows these or perhaps because of some delays and next year in all these listed countries as many as they declare to the Croats, that they do not have that obstacle and that, in fact, by working together, we are all disabling their assimilation into society or country. from which they come. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42415	Stay, Mrs. Selak Rasdic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42416	Dear colleagues, you mentioned that our embassies should be activated, which are often used exclusively as some kind of institutions that are used to verify documents or obtain them. Do you think the embassies are working enough to raise awareness and promote the rights of Croats outside Croatia, which they could do more and how they can connect with this office, and to benefit from our citizens who do not live in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42417	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42418	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Selak Rasudic. Well, right on track of what I said at the beginning. I think our ambassadors are truly true ambassadors to countries where we have direct communication with national minorities or other governments. When we talk about ambassadors and embassies, they are representatives of our country in another country and they communicate directly with other governments. And when we have a bilateral co-operation agreement, and hence the intergovernmental mixed committees, that cooperation is far, far more intense. And when we talk about the personal engagement of the ambassadors, he is important, he is recognized, here you can see just that, for example, in Slovenia where we have certain steps since the ambassador worked intensively to cooperate and improve the position of the Croatian national minority, but the same example is also in Montenegro or even in Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42419	And Mrs. Vesna Nadj, don't, just stop the chronometer moment, after that replica, we'll have 10 minutes break because it requires protocol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42420	Thank you. Dear colleagues Posavec Krivec, do you think that care for Croats is outside of Croatia and access to consular affairs, so to speak, the Croats from San Francisco have to go to Los Angeles, for example, to verify the power of attorney. It's like we from Zagreb are going to verify the power of attorney in Dubrovnik. Do you think there's anything you can do to make them trust the institutions of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42421	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42422	I will agree with you that the network of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in the world may not be deployed as we would like from each position, but the fact that this network is extremely wide and rich relative to the size of Croatia, to its possibility and strength. And when we look at it, it is aimed exactly at positions where the largest number of Croatian emigrants is, or where the largest number of Croatian minorities are. So, along with our embassies in large countries and overseas countries, as far as possible, they are accompanied by general consulates or from places where exactly this consular office can be executed. In order for this to be better in some cases, certainly there is a model, there must be a model in this eSystem that we often talk about where we can actually meet Croats in dislocated areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42423	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. To clear the break by 12.25 hours. MEETING AT 12:13 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:26 AM]] We'll wait a second to see. Thank you very much. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42425	My colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about two things that have not yet been discussed today, which I also consider an important issue concerning the Office for Croatians outside Croatia and even the rights of Croats outside Croatia. The first issue is the held elections which may not be in accordance with the Constitution, since not all Croats outside Croatia have been able to exercise their right to vote, which is guaranteed to them. 45. The Constitution. I would like to remind you that during the election call, the elections that were called in the middle of the pandemic were aware of the problem and that various issues were raised, mainly from Canada, and later Ireland about the possibility of joining our citizens' elections. However, there was not an adequate response, this proposal was ignored at that time, and some alternative solutions were sought, but that was not enough, as access to polling stations and otherwise to a large number of Croats outside Croatia was difficult, and in this situation it was almost impossible for them to all, according to some kind of constitutionality, although not improved protocol, to exercise their electoral right. It's not something we can ignore, it's not something we can push under the carpet. By leaving such questions aside, knowing ourselves that we are involved in perhaps an unconstitutional assembly of the Parliament, we leave our current actions questionable and if someone decides to comb it legally in the future. I think this question should be answered and I'll be in line with my recommendation. You have, in your report, had the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia in 2019. which also dealt with the issue of voting outside Croatia. You have also reached two conclusions concerning the introduction of a written vote and timely delivery of information to facilitate the vote of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. On this trail, I believe that even now it is necessary to hold a session of the Council again and to open this issue to see how many Croats outside the Republic of Croatia were not allowed to have access to the elections because you and you need to protect their interests and their rights under the law. The second thing to talk about is the latest amendments to the Law on Citizenship that took place in 2019. I believe that it is necessary to provide this Parliament with clearer information on how many new requirements have been made for the past time since then on the basis of the new conditions from which those countries have arrived. A fundamental issue of this kind by facilitating the acquisition of our citizenship while all countries are trying to protect their country by making access to their citizenship more difficult, which is not without reason, the question arises, are we really going to the Croats outside of Croatia? Are we allowing me to get a housekeeper or someone to get a passport? Let me remind you, for example, that since 2013. when Croatia entered the EU until the last report if we can see it on 31.12.2020. Nearly 80,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia requested Croatian documents. The reasons are probably different, from easier seasonal work to a route to Europe that enables the Croatian passport. Few such reasons are indeed related to what made such reliefs happen, which is to bring these people back to Croatia. I'll remind the office that there are 178,867 of our voters in the Election Register that are unknown locations. This means that their documents are stuck in the system or have not checked out the residence, residence, etc., that is almost a fifth of our total number of voters outside Croatia. I think the office should see where these people are stuck in the system and resolve, help resolve their status in order to have a clear situation with voters who can exercise their rights outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42426	Replica, first Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42427	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic. The key problem in BiH is the Electoral Law, which is unfair and Croats as such do not have the possibility of representing or representing their member in the presidency, as is clearly evident in the last elections. Croatia should make certain efforts and peer pressures to get a fairer Electoral Law in BiH. But how legitimate Croatia is and how many doses of hypocrisy Croatia should have to go to change and pressure changes to the law in neighbouring BiH, while in Croatia it is worth an unfair electoral law that goes hand in hand to the ruling ones. If we add to that that we are unable to carry out any referendum and evaluate the results of the same, I think it's tragic that we're going to change things somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42428	Answer, ma'am. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42429	I don't think it's anything that's excluded. It's something that needs to be turned on. Care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and for the Croats in BiH should be complete and that is our obligation, given that we who have in the past determined their status within BiH, I will remind, as a constituent people. A colleague, Bauk, in the Coroner's "Antic Tragedy" manner, took one position a moment ago, is now missing, where he tried to explain that it was tragic that yesterday we talked about Croats in Croatia in, under quotes, a porn term, and that now in this primary term we are talking about Croats outside Croatia. We can't let ourselves be divided like that. It is tragic that yesterday we talked about Slavonia late into the night and it should be changed, not thrown into the sealed issue of Croats outside Croatia, under quotes, so that we can deal with our problems, which we will also not do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42430	Thank you. Mr. Detachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42431	Dear MPs, we talked a lot today about the Croats in BiH, the problems of Croats in Serbia and Montenegro and in some other countries, we were at least talking about this real diaspora, about emigration. What I learned 10 days ago, two interesting things I learned by staying among the Croats, our old emigrants in Canada, two things. First, they told me as soon as someone got a lot of stalemates, they knew that you'd put her in because they were interested in other things and problems, and secondly, that they were all the time from the '90s from Croatia instead of feeling this, that their country was always attracted to them, that it was always this and the harder to send money, and leave your wits to yourself. It seems to me today that the exact situation is the opposite, that no more money needs to be sent to diaspora, but that we need that mind, I mean, the experience of life and work in organized states. No one should be persuaded to come back, we must fight to create this good business environment, business tax stability. Croatia is always best in Croatia if it can work under normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42432	Thanks, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42433	At a time of globalism, there is no longer that desire for a country that can be easily compensated for different promises or any going abroad where, under quotes, ours would be happy to see a Croat at all and that would be enough for them. Today, most of those living outside Croatia come to Croatia at least in the summer. But Croatia needs to create a framework that will offer them something more than a beautiful shore that they like to boast about. Therefore, Croatia needs to focus on the problems they point out as necessary, give them adequate help to easily resolve their documentation, provide them with different benefits on the labour market that will increase and bring their investment. If we settle digital nomad status, I don't see why we don't think about it, and why don't we think about how we'll make it easier for our diaspora to return to Croatia and about education to allow quotas that will be appropriate for their expectations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42434	Thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42435	My colleague, my biggest surprise here is that the ruling majority doesn't have any attitude and clubs, e.g. The SDSS which could be very helpful, mainly in Croatia's Vojvodina and other areas where Croats and Serbs live. The silence of Milorad Pupovac and his club is terrifying on these topics, frightening, even morbid. Part of the ruling majority that has everything as a national minority in the Republic of Croatia are the majority as in the assembly of Croats to his community, the Serbian National Community, which exercise all the rights, which achieves the secretaries, the 3 parliamentary MPs, collected numerous, guaranteed, so that Milorad Pupovac does not have. How do you describe it? In fact, the stone that would be a merger, about it is a stumbling block, its silence is morbid, mainly towards the Croats in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42436	Thanks, time. Answer, ma'am. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42437	We have the right to demand reciprocity in minority rights and we need to fight for it. In 2004, the agreement established minority rights at the level of a bilateral agreement between Croatia and Serbia, which are now not respected. The basic thing we can learn from this report is that they are compared to 2018. Croatian rights in Serbia restored. So, not that they remained the same, not that they improved, which is one of the conditions of accession negotiations and something that we can and should insist on to show that we are really fighting for the Croatian minority in Serbia, they have resettled. So that's what we need to be worried about. We see that already in 2019, and what happens is just culmination of the process that started then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42438	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Nevenko Barbaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42439	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing this report on the implementation of the Law and the strategy on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019, given the importance that the Republic of Croatia is committed to them and given the importance and importance of the Republic of Croatia to all of us who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, it imposes the need to discuss and extend this report whether or not they want to do so. As we recently held a report from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs on the declaration and position of the Croatian people in BiH in the assembly, then the report on the implementation of official and development assistance to the Republic of Croatia abroad, and BiH and Croats in BiH are an important part of this report, I believe that some comments and findings and views will be repeated in this debate too. Who are Croats outside the Republic of Croatia already had the chance to hear. Why the law, strategy and declaration? How many, then, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? And finally, what is the strategic interest and goal of the Republic of Croatia? The answer to these important questions can be read carefully by reading who wants this report from 6 programme areas to a series of office activities listed in this report. For... time I will comment on part of the report concerning the Croats in BiH. It is important to reiterate that the law, strategy, declaration, and documents of a newer date such as the National Development Strategy are unequivocally saying that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the survival and survival of Croats in BiH. In order to survive and stay apart from equality, we need a developed economy, new jobs, quality living conditions, better health care, education, protection of rich cultural historical heritage, etc. All of this is embedded in the government's assistance programmes for the Croatians in BiH, making a significant contribution to the improvement of the Croatian people. The report, in my opinion, was made correctly, precisely with a list of approved projects, short descriptions, amounts. Clearly, the report is not possible to fully and fully look at the important support, so there are different opinions, discussions and criticisms. For some, this amount is unnecessary, too much, others say too little, crumbs. We cannot do it ourselves, without the help of the Republic of Croatia as a nation, we have a question of survival. Yeah, it'd be nice, more, better. I ask, who else is helping, is standing with us except for the Republic of Croatia? The report does not list projects from the water economy, water supply projects, border areas, water protection projects, flood protection, water-based systems in border areas, all of these are not in the jurisdiction of the Central State Office, neither are they in the report, but projects are being implemented and are equally important for our citizens on both sides of the border. The report does not include cross-border cooperation projects, they are implemented by European means, and they are secured by the Republic of Croatia. There is no contribution in the report to help the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence and to help the victims of war, members of the HVO. The contribution of the Republic of Croatia to building a health system or, say, the university is immeasurable. I agree you should strive, try harder, more content. The form of assistance does not necessarily have to be financial, for example in the areas of agriculture, tourism, the most useful form of assistance at this point would be through the transfer of knowledge, experience and learning that I have already talked about. And finally of the crucial humidity is our firm position of the Republic of Croatia in protecting the full equality of the Croatian people in BiH, and it was not always that way. For this Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, the constitutionality of Croats in BiH is the most important foreign policy issue, is the issue of the survival of Croats in BiH. To conclude what it looks like when you run for office on the other side, financial assistance is certainly important for every project, believe me, it is equally important for us to have a sense of belonging to one Croatian people, a sense of security and support. And for that reason, the Secretary of State Milas and all other officials who come among the Croats in BiH are happy to see and welcome. And here after this brief debate realizes that the dilemma remains too much or too little, I truly thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42440	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac has her first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42441	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected colleague, it is certain that there is a problem and it is certain that the principle of reciprocity in relation to national minorities in each country should be a fundamental principle, so it seems to me that this is not the case and that those rights that have national minorities in Croatia do not have the basis of this principle and Croats in our neighbouring countries, and for that, it certainly needs to be fought by political means. However, what is also important, and it seems to me that this is also from history, so today it was the Church in Croatia that kept history and also everything that is important for the cultural identity of Croats especially in BiH. I'm interested in your position, is there enough help in this segment of Croatia and can it and should it be more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42442	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42443	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. So there is no way to compare the status of Croats in BiH as constitutional, one of the three peoples in BiH. The Croats in BiH are guaranteed the Dayton Peace Agreement, the BiH Constitution. So the status that Croats have in Montenegro or Serbia or in all 12 other EU countries is not the same as the Croats in BiH. We, according to the Constitution, are entirely equal to the other two peoples in BiH under the Dayton Peace Agreement. And when it comes to support and projects through the Croatian Office, but also through other ministries that are listed in the law or strategy or declaration, it is important to us, accelerates development. It is especially important for us to preserve cultural and historical heritage and preserve identity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42444	Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42445	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Barbaric. The report is visible, and good cooperation of the Central State Office with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, of course the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 10th said the Republic of Croatia is concerned about the protection of Croatian peoples in other countries. This government and the Central State Office systematically support the Croats, and I will look back on the Croats in BiH, I said we see through this report, and we see this through projects that allow new employment, especially in tourism and agriculture, creating new values contribute to the survival of the Croatian people in BiH. Croatia also supports the institutions of all levels of government in BiH. How much of these institutions respect the will of the Croatian people and tell me what is with the legitimacy of the Croatian people, is it threatened?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42446	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42447	When it comes to helping her out for a long and wide discussion and debate, I can from the position I was in until yesterday, and I emphasized that in the report, she always means a lot more than the financial part itself. Belonging, feeling of belonging and unity of the Croatian people means a great deal to us. Of course, you need to solve more, as I have pointed out through this debate, there are still a whole series of institutions and ministries that are listed in the law, and so far we are expecting both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Tourism if not a financial blow through the transfer of knowledge. With regard to the constitutionality of the people, I have recently also been in the debate, and part of my colleagues used this pay phone to warn about the threatened constitutionality, namely the legitimate representation and equality of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42448	Mrs. Devereaux. Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42449	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Barbaric, as a representative of the Croatian people from BiH here at HS, you are familiar with the subject but also with the problem of the Croatian people living in BiH. From you means we can always get information firsthand. Do you have any knowledge of what the citizens of BiH and our compatriots of the Croats think about the amount, quality and direction of the assistance coming from the Republic of Croatia to BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42450	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42451	And in my debate, I stressed that for some it is too little and nothing, the other part is very grateful and satisfied. So, the fact is, and I am doing this through my political action and in the place where I used to speak constantly, in which I have worked constantly to point out that Croats without stronger relations with the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with local communities, with counties and without more co-operation become questionable and difficult to achieve. So, the only thing that we have eyes on and who we can rely on all these years is RH. Don't forget, I'll repeat, it wasn't always like that. 2000. When key changes occurred in the Election Law and the Constitution of the Federation of the Republic of Croatia, we were instructed to go and solve the problem in Sarajevo. That's when we lost what the Dayton Peace Accords guaranteed us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42452	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42453	Thank you very much. My friend Barbara, you were talking about how difficult it is to satisfy a human heart, some think it's too much, others think it's not enough and it's kind of logical. But it sounded quite powerful to me, your sentence, how important it is, in fact, that aid coming from the Republic of Croatia for the survival of the Croatian people. Of course, cooperation with BiH is important to Croatia, but we also care about how the Croatian people live in BiH as a constituent people. We are witnessing that, in fact, the Dayton Agreement in that segment is not respected and implemented in action and that sometimes the Croats are citizens of the second order in BiH because they cannot achieve all the rights that should belong to them as a constituent people. So I'm wondering, do you think the solution can be found in the Dayton upgrade to correct it or do you need to take some other steps?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42454	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42455	Croatians gathered through the Croatian National Assembly, various institutes, and the academic community offer solutions. So we're looking for a return to the original Dayton Peace Agreement and everything we had back then. Therefore, the amendments, the amendments imposed, which is very important to note, in 2000 by Bergi and by High Representative Petris in 2002 as regards the Electoral Law, have led to absurdity. It has already been discussed, not only a member of the presidency, an illegal representative has been elected three times. An even more absurd situation is the choice of envoys in the House of Peoples where Bosniaks have 15 out of 17 representatives in the Bosniak club, 12 out of 17 in the Serbian club, 5 out of 7 in the club of others and 5 out of 17 in the Croatian club, and no matter what election results they control, add that not half the majority of each club but 1/3, add to what a colleague said that 5 out of 17 is not difficult to understand in what situation we are in the election law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42456	Thank you very much. Mr. Detachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42457	Dear Representative Barbaric, you have spoken well and I agree with everything you have said, but I am puzzled by the fact that you are maintaining the majority of Andrej Plenkovic, who has extorted, who has lobbied, who pushed Maria Pejcinović Buric at the head of the Council of Europe, who is now explicitly working to eliminate the constitutionality of the people in BiH. Are you sure how schizophrenic your position is? To whom Barbaric to believe, to this who says that Croatia should firmly defend the constitutionality of the Croats in BiH or the one who maintains Plenkovic's majority whose Marija Buric perjanica sends us a shameful response in which she has not answered our question at all is that Poirot said that it is necessary to obtain the consistency of her and the Council of Europe's official position? You have been elected from the 11th electoral unit with the majority of Croatians' votes in BiH, you have responsibility for these people. Go to the Croatian side, don't be part of this machine, which is the definitive undertaker of the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42458	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42459	My dear colleague, you are not nearly correct when you perform by calling us the 3 o'clock in the 11th constituency. So, you were on the board and you consciously ignored the response addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and here to the state secretary who informed us of what the official Croatian policy had taken. Personally, I would also like the reply of the said Secretary of the Council of Europe to be more correct and more content, is not. I was elected to the 11th Election Unit on the HDZ list and no matter how hard you try and part of the media to banish our work now half a year after the election or the year or whatever we are... reasoned which of us has contributed more to the survival of Croats and which of us is more responsible for the position of Croats in BiH. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42460	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42461	Injury. 238, insult and demeaning of MPs. Mr. Barbaric, I have been doing business for 15 to 20 years at my own expense in the Croatian public, which you five and later the three of you were supposed to do in the Croatian Parliament. You have been silent, now you are silent when the constitutionality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is directly undermined. You are part of a machine that supports Marija Pejcinović Buric, which obviously supports such a policy of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42462	Thank you very much. Mr. Rasdic, you know very well that on 238 it does not say such a thing. Shall I read it? I think you all have it, and that's why I have to give you a heads-up, and Mr. Barbaric was also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I believe it will be an answer to what was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it's up to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42463	Thank you. 238, article 238.Reputed Representative Rasdić demeans me as a representative. Mr. Rasdic, I spent the entire time in BiH, spent in the war on the first line while you mounted the monuments of Bruce Leea I was doing a memorial for the dead and injured members of the Croatian Defence Council, coming to the Republic of Croatia, standing up for each project and realising millions of amounts through projects of cross-border cooperation and other projects for the Croatian people In society, that's what I do for Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42464	Look at the expression of opinion does not mean to belittle. I must give you a warning because this does not apply to Article 238 and to any other article in this Rules of Procedure. Would you like some?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42465	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. Bruce Lee's monument in Mostar which we worked as young people, as students is a world-wide positive story for both Mostar and Herzegovina, and your structure has not been able to complete the monument for 20 years to Croatian defenders at Rondo in Mostar is your problem. And a million marks a day comes to Herceg Bosnia and later, to today 2021. They held a stand of policies that directly dodging the constitutionality of Croats in BiH. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42466	Thank you, Mr. Rasdic, you know that's your second warning. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42467	In the absence of arguments of insult, the Honorable representative Rasdic uses expressions that are not suitable for this House of Commons. I'll just repeat myself, so I'm someone who's spent his entire working and life in Ljubusko unlike some other people who hold and sing what's supposed to be and how it should be. You should live and feel that people and needs that are down there, not philosophizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42468	Thank you very much. Second warning. You can reply to the replicas if you want to, but we need to hear the replica before. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42469	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I think that Marija Boric will not determine the fate of the Croatian people in BiH, but the Croats and my question to you is whether the election law is fair in BiH at the moment, since we have a representative of the Croatian people who is actually a disgrace to the Croatian people and he can't really represent us. And it is good that the Croatian government does not accept him as a representative of the Croatian people. Since the Croats in BiH have made an immeasurable contribution to the creation of an independent state of Croatia, do you think the Election Law is unfair to the Croats, or is the Dayton Agreement respected, and is it embarrassing that those who created this Dayton Agreement do not respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42470	Thank you. Dear colleague, we care about the position of the Secretary of the Council of Europe, the far more important official position of the Republic of Croatia and the official Croatian policy. So much for that. As far as your second question is concerned, the Electoral Law therefore violated the constitutionality of the Croats through two, through equality and through the legitimacy of representation. The legitimacy of representation, therefore, is being won in the election of democratically elected authorities, is being won in the elections. It is also denied to Croats on several occasions through the election of members of the presidency. Even more absurd through the House of Peoples. When it comes to the second part of constitutionality, it is equality, so it is manifested through legal institutes, through equality, through veto, through all the protective measures that a nation should have and which we have lost by the loss of this, we also lose constitutionality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42471	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. I will repeat my opinion once again does not mean to belittle. It is known what it means to be disdainful, and I will, so I have made warnings, Mr. Stier, unfortunately it is 13.00 hours and we must move to a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. Now it's your turn, we're back to the report, and it's Mr. Stier's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is enough already on this subject today, I will try to concentrate on only one segment of this report, the one relating to Croatian emigrantism and I will return to 2019. Since we are discussing this year's report and in this context mentioning what I mentioned earlier in the replica, which was the meeting of the Croatians from South America who took place in 2019 in Buenos Aires, where I was a representative of HS, the State Secretary led the delegation, was also a colleague of Busic at the time in front of the MVEP. What we heard back then, I'm only going to single out some messages, which seem relevant to me for today's debate. One was the need to say that when we talk about the co-operation of the native and evicted Croatia, as we know, that it has an extra-party character, that the State Secretary said something in the opening words, but also later some MPs also stressed that the greatest consensus is needed for such a single policy that it is then sustainable in time that it can also be effective. Of course, we respect, respect our emigrants the plurality of our political scene, that's what we wanted to have multi-party democracy, but that doesn't mean that we can't achieve some state policies a certain consensus, I think that the relationship to Croatian emigration is worth it. The second message was related to the Law on Citizenship, mostly or in fact we could fully feel the support of our emigrants for the changes that were introduced into that law. They were introduced precisely in this way to meet the very Croatian emigrants, because in some previous discussions certain issues, dubiosis who would benefit, when you read what these changes were, was indeed directed towards Croatian emigrants. But as we did before, and the secretary of state has given some explanations now in this next phase, it takes even greater synergy and central state office and MVEP, I would also say to the MUP especially about digitising services in order to meet our people in order not to be in our consular departments such a large waiting list. The second message was very important about education, "Croaticum" may be the most famous programme, but it is not the only one, so it is a broad cooperation with the academic community in Croatia. As far as this 2019 is concerned, The one we are now discussing 250 scholarships and mainly users are Croats from South America, if I read the report correctly in the first row Argentina, so Chile, Peru, Bolivia, Venezuela, etc. So when we look at a wider period from 2012 to 2020, there were more than a thousand participants. Many of them later stayed in Croatia, so it may be the best, most concrete investment, and also in the framework of demographic policy. In the framework of this same policy, I might, if you would allow me in these last few seconds, looking towards the future, perhaps stress, perhaps develop forms of strengthening the position of women in Croatian emigrantism because it seems to me that this investment also returns three times later. They mainly play a prominent or prominent role in the maintenance of language, and through language and then Croatian national identity and as regards programs already funded by the Croatian language learning office, but generally in the work of our communities. Once again support this report and the work of the state office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42474	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maximchuk's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear fellow Stier. In your debate, but this report also shows good co-operation of the central state office with communities and organisations of Croatian emigrants, and in order to establish even stronger cooperation. I'll list some projects, and you've looked back on them yourself, it's the Summer School "Domovina", project "Roads", program of learning Croatian language, scholarship of students, platform for on-line learning Croatian language, I'll look back on the special registration quotas for enrollment on our study programs and of course what's very important, and you've mentioned yourself, it's a simpler acquisition of Croatian citizenship and it's certainly a formal good connection of our emigrants with our homeland. How important is this unbreakable link to Croats outside Croatia, how much can these projects help in how important it is for the preservation and care of Croatian identity or the integration of Croatian homeland and eviction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42476	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42477	Thank you, colleagues, for that. If you allow me, I will be personal because in my own experience I can testify that it is perhaps the most important segment or one of the most important segments in the work of the state office now. Before I was a beneficiary of these scholarships in the 1990s they were given for learning Croatian language, for coming back then the University of Zagreb had such a program, it was before, but only the people of the Yugoslav clubs only got those in the '90s who were in the Croatian institutions in emigration we could reach such scholarships and they were exactly that channel that you could meet with the homeland and eventually later and stay as was the case of me, my wife, later my family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42478	Thank you. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42479	Thank you. Dear fellow Stier, the fact is that since Croatia's entry, here you are focused on the topics of evicted Croatia and South America. We talked a lot here about Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But here I am interested in your comment since Croatia's entry into the EU, the number of Croats who have moved to Ireland has increased 10 times. According to some estimates today, about 20,000 Croats live in Ireland, of which 10,000 are in Dublin and 60% of those aged 25 to 44 are young. Why do you think that is the case and why attempts to set up traditional clubs are failing in Ireland, so there's no way that community can be organized in any way? Why is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42480	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42481	Thank you. It's only hard to talk about in one minute. When you look after EU accession, unfortunately the most demographically lost the Baltic countries, some even over 20% of their population. But, of course, that's no excuse for us. We have also lost, or in some ways, a large number of those people who have been since 2013 but before. You also see countries that are not EU members in Southeast Europe today, but are also moving towards Western Europe. It seems to me that, by joining the EU, we now have the opportunity to develop better, to open up more of our political and economic institutions, better integrate society and, of course, that our citizens can realise their perspective here but it is up to us to build it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42482	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42483	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Stier. Of course, the consistency of the Croatian people in BiH is the priority of all priorities, but on the basis of your presentation, it is specifically about our emigration and in South America that I am pleased and glad that one of the programmes implemented by the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, where young people from all over the world come. Here they were, specifically, from Argentina, Peru, Bolivia, they went from Ilock to Dubrovnik through the Knin fortress. Not only did they meet the Homeland in one way but they decided to stay. So one part of them stayed immediately in the Republic of Croatia, the other part unfortunately because of the crown is not able. But these are indicators that we should go in the direction of returning and enabling first of all the second, third, fourth generations to return to the Republic of Croatia. And one example in Vukovar is that students from Vojvodina are now studying at the University of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42484	Yes, something very interesting is happening in the emigrant communities thanks to the work of the State Office and of course Matica hrvatska, so a number of institutions in our system, and also in the work of communities people sometimes appear from the fifth, sixth generation who may not have been so active in the emigrant communities. However, Croatia met, and some also through sport, through the football championship or tourism came and then began to discover the roots that maybe their great-grandfather, the great-grandmother of Croatian origin or were Croats, so they wanted citizenship and then learned Croatian. For example, as far as South America is concerned, Croatian language courses are being filled in far more than those that may be children or grandchildren of people who have moved out of Croatia. Therefore, the projects should continue to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42485	And finally Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42486	Dear Representative, you were once at the head of the foreign ministry, you have a safe experience in cooperation with our emigrants and with Croats outside Croatia, so I would ask you a question about Bosnia and Herzegovina to leave out Hercegovina here, given that the Croats there are in a specific position compared to the Croats in this part of Bosnia. When we leave Slavonski Brod via Derventa, Doboj, Zepče, Zenica down to Sarajevo, then we actually see what actually, as the picture changes, what it looks like all together as people live. And when you stop talking to them, they actually see help in terms of finance, rebuilding schools, rebuilding cultural homes, helping them financially. My question, your thinking, is your position whether and to what extent is it really possible to help politically through action in some bilateral co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42487	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42488	So politically, of course, by respecting Bosnia and Herzegovina as an independent state, and when you look at the geostrategic and the Republic of Croatia and BiH, they create one and geostrategic whole, one energy whole, one economic whole. In many aspects, they are so connected that BiH's stability is the primary interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's also our national security issue. And so much of this stability at this time depends on the concrete changes that are necessary, which the EU has also pointed out are necessary, acting of course and Croatia as a member of the EU, among other things, or if you want to do so, is a more just electoral law that will allow legitimate representation of all the constituent peoples and citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42489	Thank you. You don't have to go for the army, but okay. Thank you very much. And I thank you for your precision. Now it's Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42490	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I told you before that I am in principle in favour of the efforts of your office. When I came to Croatia, he was almost 30 years old, there was no state office, and you certainly make it easier for many to return and stay here. However, he would look a little wider in exposing the work of our institutions as a whole. So, not just your office that has this particular homework, but otherwise what the public administration looks like and works for us. The results are unfortunately quite modest. So, if we agree that the greatest national wealth of people, that these are our people, Croatia must be losing the race. So, as my parents went to North America a long time ago, we still have people leaving today, we're all smaller, now unfortunately this new census has been delayed, but soon we'll know to what extent we're actually demographically threatened. And this is true for the Croatian people in BiH as much as it is spoken of with the right to help them and similar results are modest. They're still leaving, vital interests are at risk. Otherwise, I think that too much, too much of the role of the state, and public administrations, and that kind of bothers and prevents development. So often, at all levels, we have different regulations, regulations, and so on, and our people who live here and are born here are hard to cope with, let alone those who want to come back. However, in this matter it seems to me that there is an excuse that the state is doing more, not less, but more. That goes for our diplomatic network in the world, but also here. On the board when we had a discussion about your report I mentioned various cases of our returnees, personally I know of many who simply cannot come up with reliable information from whether something property is legally clean any land or facility that wants to buy or to invest in other data. They just don't trust each other and there's a lot of noises in communication. That's why your office could be just one reliable place for our people where they know they can get the right picture of things from the field from any part of Croatia. I think that would be the best way to actually make it possible for them because I'm going to say it openly, I had to come by and fix my language a little bit and so on, but many come and speak very well Croatian, and yet somehow in our public administration they find it hard to manage. I'm not going to make specific cases here right now, but there are a lot of them. My example may be even more of an exception than a rule because many come here for a while and then come back from where they came from. Now, in this crisis and this pandemic, it seems to me to be giving us another possible chance, it is difficult not only here but also in other countries, and if Croatia were better organised, but not only to lamentate about the need for people to return, we might expect some shifts. Because when I listen to these statements from various officials that funds should be used for emigrants etc., it seems more like a rhetoric to our public, but in reality there won't be too much concrete movement, unfortunately. So, generally speaking, public administration needs to be less present, have a smaller role, but in this case, I think your office that is here has a shorter time chance of showing that a state like that in Israel, for example. which very well integrates its people from all over the world can show by example and by working that something can be done for our people. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42491	Thank you. The first replica, Mr. Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42492	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bartulica, do you think that we as a state can help the Croats in BiH at all when we cannot help ourselves. There are currently no more than 300,000 Croats in BiH. About 400,000 Croats have moved out of Croatia, the media is starting to buy managers from Vukic, we cannot even inform our people in BiH about the real situation, let alone help him. Please tell me if it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42494	Yes, I thank you for the replica, and that's a very well-known question. In fact, I said that the results are very modest, no matter how many disadvantages there are in other countries, however many manage to attract people, have immigrants for decades, have very good economic growth, and we unfortunately would have said no. Our political elites have failed and we can best see for the consequences. So, the results are gone, the situation is not good in BiH, neither is we. So, I know a lot of people who've gone over the last 10 years, I'm sure they'd rather start a family and live here where they're grown up and still go. So we have to be honest and look the truth in the eye and just set things up the way they are, that the elite had a chance but they failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42495	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42496	Here, I'm going to try to get away from the issue of Croats in BiH again, I think there's a lot of talk about it, and very little talk about this so-called. the new emigration created by EU accession. As I said just before, the fact is that 10% more people have moved after EU accession specifically to Ireland. And here's Mr Stier didn't answer my question specifically, nor did he give me any opinion as to why you think the Croats who moved out after they joined the EU actually came into those countries and didn't want to organise it, so there were attempts to organize some kind of traditional clubs, etc., they just don't want it. Here's your comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42497	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42498	I am not familiar with the circumstances specifically in Ireland, I know that many of our and younger citizens have recently moved there, but in principle I will say that they leave with bitterness, with a sense of bitterness, often cite these clientelistic relations, do not want to participate in how Croatia works, from public tenders further, if you are not a member of the ruling party or its partners, you are, unfortunately, a second-row citizen. You don't have an objective chance. People who have and self-respect simply and do not want to participate in this way are leaving. Although one is a demographic, they vote for legs. It's a clear message, they vote the legs and unfortunately still when they're abroad, they have the restraint to gather it together, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42499	No more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Madam. Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my individual discussion, I'm going to look back on a little more positive side of this story. Namely, what this central state office does and what it has done and achieved just this year in 2019, before the pandemic did its part because I had the opportunity to participate in a program of a summer school called Homeland, which I mentioned little. And I was with, personally not only satisfied but I was really proud. Proud because as a state we recognized the needs of our young people from eviction and organized a program for them that I would not, I would say freely, and Mr. Bartulica, who left, mentioned Israel, who would not be ashamed of Israel, which we often mention as a really good example of how and in what way he collects and invites his young into the kibbutz, we all know that, here. And that's really something like that done by this Croatian state office. For young people from the diaspora programme, most of whom have never even been in Croatia, such a journey was actually of one crucial nature, it was crucial to build their Croatian identity, I would say. They all live in countries with strong, believe me, with strong integration and assimilation policy, I have lived for many years, over 25, so I know what it does and, of course, it shares you a great distance, a language barrier and everything else. They often have one parent of Croats, the other is Czech, Slovak, Italian, Irish, Scot or whatever, but those of their grandmothers and those of Croatians are really listening to those stories, and romantic stories that they fall in love with themselves, and here they now have had the opportunity to actually come here and build that identity and experience what their parents or grandmothers have told them. In conversation with these young successful people, let's say from Australia, Peru, South America, said Mr. Stier, we were together in South America and should really get to know these people, feel them then really all a little different conversation because that feeling that the Croat has out there, believe me, I've lived here half my life there, half here, it's quite one without demeaning anyone, quite another feeling when you have that love for your home and something in German called... No, it's the pain of home, there's no pain, believe me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. A student from Cleveland, she told me I had to come see my grandmother's land, who kept telling me about her, and she told me, of course, in English because she doesn't even know Croatian. The young and successful manager of Saint Louis right away, even during this project, he began to organize his life here in Croatia and remained, some went directly to the Croatian language course, one young and a student from Texas, I remember that she immediately enrolled the Faculty of Agriculture here in Zagreb, several of them met them, signed up dentistry, so that we have such beautiful stories, they all heard of all the opportunities Croatia provides them with, and it was all done by this Croatian state office that we can really be proud of. Those who do not have citizenship immediately sought citizenship but most importantly, they all became aware of their Croatian identity and only then understood what it is to them, what they often heard in the night before bedtime from their grandparents and others. They got their own experience of Croatia, they created their own emotion about Croatia and the emotion that is now inherited from these parents, and now they have achieved it, that emotion is achieved and complete. And that is the key, it is the foundation, giving them the opportunity to realize that emotion and to experience Croatia, to experience Croatian beauty and beauty and people, to experience Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42501	He wouldn't stop you, but now you're going to have replicas and then... Mr. Barbaric, here you go, replica. [[Intruding Busic: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42502	Dear colleagues, you've been as... at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, you are now chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The topic put forward, a statement by the Council of Europe officials, the Secretary-General's reaction, we have discussed it twice on the board, can you explain more precisely what this statement means, the reaction of our committee and the foreign ministry to our public, above all, to the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42503	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42504	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I am sorry that this question has actually been raised which is not really the subject of this debate today. Of course it is part of the situation of Croats in BiH, I absolutely agree. I'm familiar with every letter and mark in the letter because I sent it, but also the letters that came in late last night or night. I am sorry that this has caused such a kind of misunderstanding and I am sorry that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has not quoted the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole quote from that verdict. I, I hope I have a chance to say, but he's not whole, he's half-assed, and he actually has that other part where actually where those two things settle down. Reconciliation means what every resident needs to have [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That is, every citizen who does not belong to the majority of the peoples, and they are, too. [[Thank you very much.]] Constitutive Forgiveness, Constitutive Peoples Who Are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] All right, all right. [[Intruder: Time Mrs. Busic, time unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42505	Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42506	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bušić are listed in the report areas of action helping Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is education, science, health, social care, culture and also municipal infrastructure. What do you consider as a representative of Croats outside Croatia to be a priority for future activities which would raise the quality for our countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia as much as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42507	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42508	Excuse me, Vice President, can I finish this? That would, I mean, I've got a lot of this, I could talk for an hour, but I'd like to finish this. So, I'm sure your colleagues are interested. So unfortunately this was in the letter quote from the verdict itself was here that I have here in English and I'll try you, I'll try you, I'll actually try to tell you what it says. So he says the verdict of Sejdiu Finzi is always mentioned and we all know it. It is said that it calls for the abolition of discrimination against BiH citizens who are not members of the constituent peoples that they too can choose and be elected to political positions, such as a member of the presidency. Well, my God, if they choose, they choose. However, the verdict itself also confirms that the abolition of this discrimination should come in fact cannot and should not come by abandoning the mechanism for these three constituent nations. [[Intruder: Mrs. Busic, again you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42509	I've got to stop you again, you've got a lot of replicas, so you guys can put on a replica, you can do whatever you want. Mr. Mazhar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42510	Okay, I'll keep going, and I have to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42511	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Busic here is since you would say the living example of perhaps most of the work of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, since you have roots from BiH, you have spent a long part of your life in overseas countries, you eventually return to the Republic of Croatia when it was most needed, so you have one look inside, outside and back, so here's a clue of that if you arrive after you're going to read what's left, you might say a few words about it too. And since it's important that what you've set out for public interest and if the truth were known about this important issue, here's what I'd ask you to finish it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42512	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, that's a lot of really nice topics and things and stories that we could do here, well I say I apologize because the story is being told, but also things that we really needed to discuss. And I think it's good that this is being maintained and I'd like it to be more of an interest, of course, for all the points of the agenda, not just for this, so I wouldn't share it as well as belittled, let's say that in any way. And what you said, that I should really like to feel all of us, feel it either, or be evicted Croatia and then have a little bit more empathy I would say according to all of their needs and problems, and also have more somehow been brought together because of that love they have for Croatia. And don't be afraid it'll never stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42514	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42515	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Honored Representative Busic, you spoke of language and culture as the fundamental workers of the national identity for the survival of the Croatian people as an important and adequate health care provided to BiH residents. The 2019 report lists 12 programmes and projects, we are mostly talking about health care, which is logically the first thing on our mind, the Hospital Hospital in Mostar, but we also have the County Hospital in Livno, we have a Croatian hospital in Novi Bilo where without help from the Republic of Croatia the equipment and modern diagnostics would not be available to Croats and Croats living in the BiH area. And I would dare say that the provision of adequate healthcare is also important for the survival of the Croatian people in BiH's premises. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42516	Dear Representative Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42517	Thank you very much. Yes, fellow Cellic this is absolutely one very important question and an important, important point to which we should look a little bit more closely but in this short one. The new Bila Me, here is a man who is not polite to speak but I am in this project from the very beginning when from the promise to the last lamela of the sixth that ended and I really think that the Croatian state can be proud and all of us what we did and how it was helped to the Croatian people because believe me, they wouldn't have stayed in central Bosnia if it hadn't been for that hospital. I'd like anyone who's two to go with me to see that. So that's about central Bosnia. As for now, of course you couldn't be held or the University Hospital in Mostar if it wasn't for the help of Croatia because it is necessary. And besides, it was far-sighted to start a medical college in Mostar, and it's an honor to meet you, I was a participant at that very beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42518	Thank you. The next replica is respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42519	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Bušić, you are the chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the country whose member I am. And I'm sorry to just have to say this right now, but that amount of pathetic that you had in your exhibit was embarrassing, really embarrassing to listen to how many citizens within the Republic of Croatia, and I believe it would be so embarrassing and many evicted Croats if they had had the opportunity to listen to it. I'm asking you what are you talking about? Emotions? About creating emotions between people who used to listen in the small hours of the night, maybe yesterday when we were discussing interpolation at three in the night, about romantic stories about the Republic of Croatia. Well, all these people were evicted because economic and political opportunities imposed on them, and today Croatia is such that they cannot return to Croatia. We were supposed to discuss the eligibility of the spending of taxpayers' funds, not emotions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42520	Thank you very much. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, dear colleagues, we all choose emotions. I choose this approach, you choose another. I agree with you you choose yours, I will never speak against, I don't have to agree but I will give the last thing she knows to drop her blood that you have the right to say and say. And this is my way and my approach and I ask you to respect it as I respect yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42522	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bušić, you spoke of the relations of Croats outside the country from a romantic point of view. I believe that when they come to Croatia and look at our natural beauty that they are probably thrilled. But if, for example, they want to open a company, if they want to invest in Croatia and meet our administration there is no more pain for the Homeland, there is only misery and infidelity. When I was in the Chinese embassy, one of our citizens boasted that within a week there he was given permission to open a shoe factory. If he did that here, it's an impossible mission, he'd sooner come to a fellow cellmate for psychiatry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42524	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42525	Thank you very much. Well, look, you've had that experience I'm sorry. Besides, you had experience how one of them opened up in China. But I could give you a lot of experience from the people who came here. Of course, there were those who failed. I'm sorry, and we're doing everything we can to actually make as many of those who are happy. Watch where it opens, of course it's a matter of discussion. We're trying and we're going to keep trying, and it's actually this office that makes as many contacts as possible, and that those people who want to do it give them that opportunity. And that's why Mr. Miles is talking about establishing contacts with different entities who can help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42526	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go. I don't see a respected representative. And there it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42527	Thank you very much, Mr. Miles, with your associates. The report should not be spoken of, which means it is in accordance with the law, with the report i.e. what it's supposed to be. I'd like more on policies and Croats outside Croatia. Unfortunately, more and more Croats outside of Croatia are moving out, these are the younger generations we are trying to speak about with special care. These are the people who have gone to third countries, who are only now actually getting along. It's a large number of people, more and more people are leaving. As far as I have information in Munich, Bavaria is growing rapidly, more and more of our Croats are growing. We're hoping he'll come back. However, I would speak here. We're trying to do everything to get them back, so that these people still have their families and future generations stay here, not to keep them out there. I would say here only a short relationship, a relationship to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Croats as one constituent people of three people, that this people is also forgotten by the bad policies of Croatia. You remember it in pre-election time. Unfortunately, the people there are more used for pre-election purposes. I know something's helping out there, and it's good, material, status. I know when I came to the Parliament talking they didn't even have a TV program on HRT, on state television so I understand this problem, there are neighbors but I can also say an example when there was a coronary crisis then they closed all the boundaries except some transition to Livno so people could get to Sinj. And while the migrants were crossing the side of that border, that official passageway as they wanted us to, you know, you're probably the problem with Billy Brig's border that he's closed and so on. So we're trying to have a much better relationship with these people. From that area, people are responsible, they were in the Homeland War from Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps in large numbers and defences of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's a part of us, it's the same people, and it's about these people, and it's about treating themselves like that. However, we have this third problem which is currently the biggest problem. These are forgotten Croats in Serbia, i.e. in Vojvodina, as if we had blown them off, as if there were no certain agreements, agreements, reciprocity. I always say in Croatia, for example, here in the next elections the local Serb national minority will have a double right to vote, double if there are not enough members of national minorities where under the Constitution they must be going to the elections again. It didn't allow them SDP,... Now it would be a protest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, my colleague Deur knows, that would be, it'd burn everything. You gave them, and you laugh, colleague Deur this is serious Croats in Vojvodina have absolutely no rights. And your relationship, so politically, I'm not talking about fellow Miles, Mr. Miles of the government of the Republic of Croatia with... You're the same pub party, you're intertwined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have common interests with Chetnik Vukic. You are the same party's main party, as it is said to be shot in the EU. Also in Croatia, we have representatives of the Serb national minority in power, not the minority in the parliament, but the majority in the parliament. I'm not saying this against the Serb national minority, but I live with these people. These people are fantastic both in defense and in the Homeland War, in all units. They are political Croats, but I am talking about my colleague Pupovac and his party who is in power. What do you do to get the rights back to the Croats or to get rid of them, they didn't have them, let's say, in the Serbian Parliament. There aren't any. And the Serbian national minority in Croatia has 40 deputy mayors and mayors, 12 mayors, 3 parliamentary MPs, you give them a secretary from Mile Topjia there, what's called Mile Horvat, who was precise in the war, is not... He's the secretary of state, and he didn't shoot us there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have a great cohabitation with the Wolf Chetnik. You're taking him in here, right here to make fun of us. First you took him up to Pantovich where he was making fun of, didn't bring a missing list. Once again, I invite you from the Croatian National Protection Office in Serbia as they remain under pressure from Chetniks, Seselj and his assistants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42528	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42529	Your Honor, when the issues in Vojvodina came up here, there was only a little talk about it, something was mentioned, a discussion was almost gone. You started it a little bit, but everything was quiet. Today we talked about Croats who are not in Croatia, this evicted Croatia. We talked a lot about Bosnia and Herzegovina, about Serbia almost nothing. I ask your thinking and your position on whether it is possible at all in this consolidation of the force currently in the Parliament that the Government is acting and working for the benefit of the Croats in Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42530	Thank you very much for asking. Thank you very much. The question hit the core. We have a part of the government. Serbian national, SDSS members of the national minority who rule the Republic of Croatia, they are the government, you and I are in the minority right now in Parliament, regardless of whether they are a national minority but they are in the majority. And they went to Backo Palank neatly to a Chetnik party during the Storm while the government's half was in Knin, the storm party was at a Chetnik party in Backo Palanca. So the problem of the Croats in Vojvodina is huge. Where's that reciprocity? Where is it? Where did that go? Which is why we don't have any representatives in Serbia, Croats or even Vojvodina. So it came to me to cry when it was last year, you were a colleague of Milas down on the board at a small council. A man doesn't know more than grief.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42531	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Radoj Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42532	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable secretary. We are today discussing a strategy on the report on implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Croatia. And all of our debates that I have really closely followed are that I can conclude that practically all of us here share the opinion that after we have created the Republic of Croatia, after the Republic of Croatia has achieved its foreign-political strategic goals of joining the EU, NATO alliance that this issue is a relationship between Croats outside Croatia and vice versa the most important issue and its quality solution will depend on the next period on the unstable, globalised, unpredictable world of fate and the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people as a whole. From the detailed report we received, the presentations of the esteemed secretary I am pleased that we can read that indeed the facts, a series of activities through various programmes, projects to bring this strategy to life in practice. I am pleased to read that a number of projects have been implemented in the fields of education, health, culture, social assistance, etc. over the past period. We also see that there is progress in economic co-operation. I will list only an example of economic co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina where in 2019, the Republic of Croatia exported a billion and 521 million euros in goods and imported slightly less than 700 million. A good part of the credit for this is good co-operation between the Croatians in BiH. I want you to look back here at your colleagues who have previously pointed out, have been exposed here before. Why do three MPs from 11 constituency support this government? I, and my colleagues, will agree that I support this government and we will support it because in its programme, in its daily action, it has clearly shown its relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that one of the priorities is the position of Croats in BiH. And I will agree with all who have already spoken here, that the constitutional position of the Croats in BiH is the most important and that we need political assistance here most. So I would also refer to a colleague who asked how we would return to BiH, me and my colleague Barbaric. We from BiH practically didn't leave. I leave on Wednesday morning early from my Kreshev, which is almost 420 km from here and I come here at half 10, and also on Fridays I leave after a session of the Parliament and the 4 days I spend in BiH, I meet at least 300, 400 people living downstairs. I would refer to my colleagues, Bauk, as saying that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be decided in BiH. I fully agree, but it should also be borne in mind that the current constitutional arrangement is the product of an international contract which is a signator and a Croatian guaranteeing equality and the Republic of Croatia must insist and demand that these agreements be respected. Only by respecting these agreements can we come to the future of perhaps a better quality and constitutional and any other arrangement. I would like to look back here a little bit on my colleague Glavasevic, who I fully agree with that BiH's future is not nationalism, but it is not safe for BiH to argue that it is civil. The future of BiH is three equal constituent nations in the country. But I'm going to provide some data that most in the Republic of Croatia probably don't know. One of the most civic under quotes is the county of the Federation of BiH, Tuzlan. In that county 820% more Croats die than they are born, and the number of peers is almost the same as dead and born. In Unsko-Sanski-like. In Sarajevo, 700% more Croats die than they are born. And so in all the counties where Croats are minority. And in those counties where Croats are most of the dead and born between Bosniaks and Croats is practically the same. It means there's no discrimination. These indicators show what would happen to the Croats if they lived in such a country that some worship us, they force here from the Parliament. And finally calling on all of us to support this report, to involve all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, in order to implement this strategy as effectively as possible in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42533	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42534	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my dear colleague, as you yourself have said, you are one of the few MPs who, by performing this honorable duty, continues to live in BiH and I assume you will return there. I also know that you are now active in the political area of central Bosnia. Many of the problems in previous years have been caused by the attitudes of a part of the people who have been in this honorable House, and with the origin of BiH, as we like to say, become suddenly smart so the priority of all these years was who will be somewhere, who will be the chief, who will be the president and not the protection of the rights of Croats in terms of constitutionality, equality, legitimacy of representation and everything else. We can rely on anyone besides the Republic of Croatia to fight for these rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42535	Thank you. Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42536	Of course, Croatian people throughout history no matter where countries live a unique people and only through unity, through a common sense of identity, membership, social cohesion can achieve their long-term and short-term goals, so that Croats in BiH cannot have or will have greater friends in the world than the Republic of Croatia, and there is certainly no greater friend than Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42537	The next replica of the respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42538	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You said yourself that most of the week you were in contact with people on the ground, with your voters. You were born in BiH, so you lived there and studied there, so here's my real candidate for a scholarship issue. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It says a hundred scholarships have been funded for those studying in Croatia, 400 for those studying in BiH. Do you follow, do you have contact with these people, or with those young completed post graduates whether they stay in BiH, whether they return after the study. Since 2012. Until 2020. A scholarship has been granted for 1044 students. Do you motivate these people, do you follow them, do they motivate others to study and come back? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42539	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42540	Thanks for asking. I thought it was a good program, that it should be promoted, scholarship students, investment in science is the only safe investment for the future. As for BiH students who receive a scholarship, who are studying in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, my experience in the municipalities that I know better than anyone is that a small number return to BiH. Unfortunately, this is so, which is why I would like a much higher number of scholarships, of course in the field of meeting the criteria for those studying in BiH because it is much more likely to stay in BiH. We, above all, live downstairs, who see our future below, need Croats everywhere in the world, and especially to stay there to live where they came from. Here you are earlier asked about the pupils, I'm following the situation in Zenica. It's really hard, it's disastrous for the Croats. Before the war, there were nearly 20,000 inhabitants, today about 20 Croats are born annually in Zenica. It is practically impossible for some long-term viability without including the Republic of Croatia and assistance from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42541	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42542	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, in your speech, you spoke positively about the Office for Croatians outside the country and indeed the office is doing everything to make you Croats who do not live in Croatia feel good and that you actually know that you have the support of your country, other country, is that evidence and that you have won an absolute victory in your election unit in BiH, you have received 3 mandates. It means that those who once built monuments to others, you created and built BiH. My question to you for the preservation of Croatian identity could still be invested more in education and education. that our students are given textbooks written in Croatian. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42543	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42544	Thank you for that question. ... Looking out for others, I think personally, and I know a colleague of Barbaric who comes from BiH, we have practically devoted our whole life from the Homeland War to today, from the beginning of the Homeland War, from the 1990s to today, creating conditions for Croats to survive as an equal constituent people in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any assistance is welcome, especially this assistance is welcome from the Republic of Croatia. Because besides this purely material aid, it means a lot in psychological terms for the security of the people who live there. And as for whether you should invest more in education, you should certainly, and I would also like to come up with programs to help young families with more children. I think it is a key issue for the future, individually for every family with two, three children, younger ones, who want to stay in BiH, how they can be helped specifically, a solution to the housing issue, looking for work, etc. I think that's the most needed thing right now, except for the constitutional arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42545	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42546	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. You've explained this very well to our colleagues, but I'm sure you should say that the central office is doing what it can. It shows good faith and a good point in which there is a lot of it through history that we have had and in recent history, but surely it is essential in the most important part of the recognition of Croats that it is good, and you live down there, you know what is best for the Croatian man and what is most important. This is the measure that also gives here in the Croatian Parliament so that you can tell the best and most true Croatian in BiH, which is important to him and what he needs right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42547	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42548	I thank you for asking, and I think the esteemed secretary here in his statement said that most of these projects, the vast majority of them... Croatian representatives in how the municipal and countyal, federal levels of government, both with church representatives, and with all the most important factors of the Croatian people in BiH, that this project is approved on their proposal, of course there is always room for improvement and I hope that in the coming period this assistance, not assistance, cooperation more comprehensively on the special satisfaction of both Croats and BiH, Croats abroad and the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42549	The next replica is a respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42550	Your Honor, you said at the beginning of your exposure that you support this government because it offered a good programme to help Croats in BiH. We have seen from this report that are investments, which are contributions for Croats in BiH, but we know that there were, say, 23,000 people living in Derventa, that... 2013 2600, in Doboj 13 500, in 2013. 1850, Zenici, 22 500, 2013 Eight hundred, today your numbers are even smaller. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are the effects of this programme that the government has made since we know that there is a bad election law down there that does not help Croats and the demographic picture is getting worse and worse? What are the effects?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42551	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42552	Thanks for asking. The concrete answer is that the number of Croats is shrinking drastically. First of all, in those areas where Croats do not have political authority, influence, you listed all these municipalities, in Doboj,... The number of Croats in Zenica is much lower than in Zepč. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, in Bugojn much more than it does in Knights or Kreshevo or Kisseljak, you know. Without a constitutional solution, the position of Croats in BiH will be very difficult to stop this departure process for Croats regardless of the material aid provided. Of course, material assistance is welcome, it can stop some processes, slow down but in the long run it cannot solve without feeling the security and equality of all Croats wherever they live in BiH. Without this key solution, this process will not stop, it can slow down so that the most important issue is the constitutional issue of Croatian equality and then we will solve all these problems easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42553	And the last replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague is not the same essence of Croats in western Herzegovina and central Bosnia. I think the very important moment was May 2018 and the establishment of the Croatian Consulate of the Republic of Croatia in the Knights of the Croatian Valley and the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia if we look at the visits of the State Secretary, Mr. Milas, then we see that these are not just tours of the pro-forma but tours with certain projects and programmes and with support for what is important to people, so other than better business relations, social conditions, it is very important to support that the Croatians of the Lašvan Valley know that the Republic is there for them. I'm curious to know what you, as a man living in Kreshevo, think we could do in the short term by the state office or the government of the Republic of Croatia for the Croats of central Bosnia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42555	Thank you. Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42556	Thanks for asking. It meant a lot to the opening of a consulate in Knights, but again practically to the same... to answer as I answered my colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats in central Bosnia really had one feeling after the war... economic swing, however, the political return ran because it was based on a constitutional solution that fully guaranteed the equality of Croats in Central Bosnia and Herzegovina with Bosniaks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By imposing constitutional changes, the situation has been completely disrupted. So until such a short time to explain, Croats could be completely equal with Bosniaks in the choice of government, mayor and other institutions. It was then abolished and the right to make it appear 2/3 of the majority. Unfortunately, Croats find it difficult to reach this 1/3 with superhuman efforts, and that is the only way we maintain our influence in the Central Bosnia County. It would be important for us to return politically to what we had after the end of the war, which we are guaranteed by peace agreements. Of course, all this assistance is welcome, but it is a key political solution in BiH and for the Croats of Central Bosnia and possibly the whole of BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42557	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42558	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, Honorable MPs, I welcome all of you, to this day's report and presented by the Secretary of State in front of the central state office, I think this is a good indicator all this time trying and in what way the interest of the Republic of Croatia is primarily for the constituent Croatian people in BiH, but also for Croats around the world. We all want a strong, political BiH, but first of all we want the Croatian people to be a constitutive, strong people who survive in their country of origin who will have a measure and who through BiH institutions can make quality representations. This is certainly what the future is and what the Croatian Government is trying to do today and what President Plenkovic and the Croatian Government and what the state office can in its capabilities and there we must be realistic. All that is done around the world is one measure I know many of our colleagues will put it in some frames may be justified from their corner, but looking at the whole picture of Croats both in Serbia and in BiH where the hardest moments may be, but we also have Croats around the world who are now one new generation, second, third, fourth, fifth generation that have a completely different view of that country where their fathers, grandfathers, grandfathers went, where cultures and views crash, today it is precisely why the central office gives a good picture. I would like to say that first of all, we must as a society of young people who show excellence from the world of Croats who come as excellent as they came in the '90s. and '91. years from Minister Šushka to Croatian people from Canada, America, France who stood on the defender of the country. Today, this generation of excellent young people, educated, who have something to give to their homeland to Croatia, must be more recognizable, we must give stronger encouragement and receive these truly young people. We must show young Croats in BiH security, give them support for what I believe is being given to be represented in addition to Bosniaks to see that it is their homeland, and how to see it is to be present in all BiH institutions. That's where we can't miss. If we miss then in the assembly, our society is left with nothing but activists. Activism is not good. He's not good because there's no reality. Activism can draw emotions, but what HDZ is doing is showing me that it recognizes its people and that this is what through and through the central state office, and also through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be done as much as possible at this point. Surely, first of all, we must trust the institutions. The institutions are the ones who measure, and we are here to give the trust of our people, which is why our representatives from BiH are here in the assembly. We can't. They know better than all of us. They live with these people. We can't go from a pay phone to a momentary attempt with one incorrect, incorrect information to characterize the public something that isn't good. So once again, I want all of us here to send a message to Serbia that the Croatian Parliament is giving a full political strong message to the Croats in Serbia because it is very much needed. It's survival, but tomorrow it's to strengthen your people to be strong, to be recognizable, to be proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42559	We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. The first one's a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke of the challenging situation of Croats in BiH, I would dare say that in some parts of BiH, Croats have almost disappeared, there has been an exodus that could be compared to what happened in Syria and Iraq to Christians. Our BiH colleagues also spoke about dramatic data where in some parts of the Federation of BiH 800% more dead Croats than those born. I wonder what with all the activities we're doing right now we can do to support the Croats to stay alive in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42561	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42562	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, first of all, this is what we need young, excellent people of quality they must enter BiH institutions. They're the foundation of survival, they're the trust of survival. I'm sure after the war and everything that's happened, it's terrible things happened, but today it has to go. Young people, Croats, educated people have to get a seat in all BiH institutions. Without it, without a strong constitutional people, without a representative of strong Croats we cannot go down or there will be a hard survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42563	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42564	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Deur, and here we are well aware of the extremely difficult positions and positions of Croats in Serbia. They are exposed to heavy pressures and assimilation practically from the earliest days of kindergarten through schooling to employment practically their whole life in order to sort of assimilation them as quickly and as much as possible and to reduce their numbers. Unfortunately, the Catholic Church is the only one who in some way holds them head over water with some cultural organizations dealing with folklore, culture by preserving their customs. We also have positive examples not only from the state level but also from the regional level. For example, Osijek-Baranja County provides in its budget more than £200,000 each year to help organizations in the Vojvodina area, or places that are mostly Croatian living there. I'd like to hear your opinion that these people are in some way permanent and as much quality help as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42565	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42566	Thank you, Your Honor, for sure that the Catholic Church through the history of the Croatian people and in Bosnia in particular in these areas in both BiH and Croatia and Serbia in our past was the greatest foundation of the survival of the Croatian people. Here, unfortunately, in Serbia, it happens especially in the 1990s when individuals from the top of Serbia have been doing everything for the bad of the Croatian people. Surely the strong messages of the Croatian institutions that we believe they are going, they are in these times as much as they can be done, but that is one strong message political that must be made in times to come. It must be the biggest basis for the survival of the Croatian people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42567	The next replica is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42568	Thank you. You said in your presentation that HDZ recognises its people by speaking about BiH. Since the Dayton Agreement, no other political party has ever represented the Croatian people but HDZ. And now I'm going to tell you something to keep it in writing. It'll be your biggest curse. The biggest curse because the results show that you were wrong about everything. The Croats are getting smaller, their standard of living is getting worse, and only because your policies were run by the purchase of votes, not the well-being of the Croatian standard of living in BiH. The history of HDZ will not be remembered as those who took care of Croats but those who destroyed them in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42569	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42570	Dear MPs thank you for your question, replicas, monologues, but you must be aware that it is also to believe that, and I believe that you believe that HDZ was led by President Tudjman in the difficult times and Croatian states, and also in BiH was the greatest foundation of BiH's survival, and in these times and such times, many unfortunately, things have happened that I see you do not respect but that is your right. I believe that in this assembly in four years you too will come to yours with the best and quality of love and that you will be much more relaxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42571	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Deur, you are a good acquaintance of the problems of the defence population both in the Republic of Croatia and former members of the HVO and members of their families. Do you think that HDZ should finally initiate an annex or a new interstate agreement in order to address the comprehensive issue and problems of former members of the HVO and members of their families is this point-to-point resolution of their problems through changes to the law not adequate. You can see that every time we re-open the Defense Act, we also have articles that speak of the rights of the HVO.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42573	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42574	Thank you respected MPs on the issue, so you certainly as a very positioning man at the Ministry of Croatian Defence know it very well. This is exactly what the government does best. It is for the victims and members of their families is something that is best done and this law of change that was made under Minister Bear under his, the whole ministry is made what is best it can do. Surely in some future times BiH and Croatia need to look together in how best they will be, not through maybe the Ministry of Defence, but certainly in some contexts what they will do to help the Croatian man. It is all the institutions of Croatia are very important, from economy to foreign affairs, and we here all have to believe together that it is our job both you and me and everyone here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42575	Thank you very much. We are now going to the final presentations and the first one, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, will be spoken by the esteemed representative Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42576	... Mr. Vidovic that you agree with MP Bauk who said the fate of Croats in BiH should be resolved in BiH. [[Specially enabled.]] Did I hear that right? If that's the case, then I'd cross over here. In one such state, the fewest people leave at the mercy of wolves, so only someone can say it, I was warned earlier to make sure I didn't insult anyone. Currently, BiH has kept me faked, there are decent people among both Croats and Serbs and among Bosniaks, but those who are as a collectiveity are just trying to deceive each other. Look, today before the Homeland War or before the war in BiH or rather before the elections, there was a poll among BiH citizens, and these massive support promises to the SDP and the Reformists, and the nationalist parties will get nothing. However, the elections of nationalist or national parties are completely clouded by the SDP, followed by the census, no one is declared a citizen but as Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs. Those who today force civil BiH to do the greatest evil to the Croats. I am surprised by the intellectual and educated Bauk who reminds me much more of a Croatian leftist than a Yugoslav commie, the story that came from a certain Dejan Jovic, whom I called here, who is some kind of doctor. Where is he where he doctored I have no idea or at the mentioned Stazic, it's okay, but Bauk knows how to think both Bauk to the Croatian state and to the Croatian people doesn't mean bad. I'm going straight to the Serbs and Serbia. The right of colleagues who say that the Croats in Serbia have been neglected in Serbia. So you know how best we can fight for them? Europe needs to know who the Serbs are and who Serbia is, Europe no longer has those prejudices, Serbs are first beaten Bosnian Serbs, and then Serbian Serbs are beaten, no longer accepts Europe or everyone or their films, their stories about Jasenovac, etc. First, it should be explained when they had already left Kosovo from Kosovo... where the question of how many Croats were in the battle, how many Serbs in Kosovo were very many because there were 30% in the Turkish army. It should be noted that in all major Turkish battles, there was a large number of Serbs, a battle in 1395. Two Serbian dignitaries, Konstantin Dejanovic and Marko Kraljević, are killed in Rovina, who is an epic figure. So, the battle of Nikople when the Christian army is to defeat the Turks, Serbs include helping Turks and winning for the Turks. The 1448th battle in Kosovo where they cheat on the betrayal of Janko Hunjadia, a thousand..., the fall of the Carigrida 1500 pardons the 1453 fall of Cargizada, 1,500 Serb armorers are on the side of the Turkish army. No one was such a servant to Turks as Serbs. When the Turkish Empire fell, when they came into second position, no one worked such a massacre against Bosnian Muslims and Albanian Muslims as Serbs. So the Croats give us racial laws, so from the Karajord who was illiterate or semi-literate, they passed racial laws, none in Europe. It is known about Ustashas, Jasenovac and racial law. My cousin tells me about racial law, I can't come up with a word to tell him... that's what no Croats were proud of, but five racial laws had, two racial laws passed in '40. Before World War II. So when they lie about us, it's enough about Serbs just to tell the truth and nothing else, and I'm going to use free speech, keep what's to be said about Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42577	Thank you very much. To hear the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42578	I'll tell you the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm specifically asked, so I have to answer specifically. So I specifically said that the Republic of Croatia should seek the literal respect of the Washington and Dayton Agreements that would make Croats fully equal. And in such a position without Croats, no law could be passed, and in particular cannot be changed to the Constitution. Only if we return to those principles can BiH be decided in BiH if we return to such constitutional principles where Croats are fully equal without which they cannot be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42579	Thank you, colleague Vidovic, you know it was a replica in fact, not a breach of the rules of procedure, so I have to give you a warning. We will now hear on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club finally respected representative Zdravko Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42580	Since I failed to complete my opening presentation on behalf of the club, I want to complete it in the final address, so I will continue on about the Croatian national minority living in 12 European countries. In cooperation with Croatian embassies, the central state office is in 2019. carried out public tenders for programmes and projects of associations, institutions and organisations of the Croatian national minorities in all countries where they live, through which a total of 5 million kuna was provided, which increased as much as 67% compared to 2016. This competition supports the activities of the Croatian community in preserving and developing Croatian identity, language and culture, best illustrated by concrete projects that provide support, such as support for the functioning of the Dux from Tift, the preparation of warm meals of users of the National Kitchen in the Yearbook in Kosovo, Am Mein Dictionary of the Scientific Institute of Civilian Croats from Treibstoff, the Day of Croatian School of State Self-Government in Budapest, the Meeting of the Association of Homeland Immigrants of Croatia in Molise, etc. But a particularly big step that I would like to highlight is really supporting the strategic project of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, which was launched in 2018, it was continued in 2019, and by providing support to two strategic projects that we should really highlight, which is the construction of a Croatian house in Subotica and in the human empowerment of the National Council in the Republic of Serbia. This support was increased in 2020, and all these years, and this year, even more resources are being provided. The position and status of members of the Croatian national minority is different in, and is different in certain countries, but the institutions of the Republic of Croatia take care of everyone. It is important to step up and set up committees on the issue of Croatian status in the Republic of Slovenia, which unfortunately, as we know is not defined status and do not exercise minority rights. With those countries with which mutual protection agreements exist, national minorities are held meetings that we spoke to intergovernmental mixed committees today, and there are really great results, and I think we've heard a lot of incorrect information today, about these meetings that have been held for a few days and that, let alone to be run now with several countries. It's totally one false perception. Three such sessions were held in 2019, such activities as I said develop and improve Croatian minority communities, and I believe that continuing these activities will continuously improve their position in the future. Compared to the Croatian emigrants, we said a lot about this, the steps in 2019, which were presented in his report, and State Secretary Milos represents a rounding I would say one whole, or the first phase of a new one-way work in the country with Croatian emigrants. The report also testifies to the results of the work started in 2016. Bringing amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, opening up as many as 2 programmes aimed at young people in Croatian emigration, special competition in which the work of the Croatian Association in Immigrantism is financially supported.../incomprehensible/... course of Croatian language. All of these are excellent indicators of a modern new approach that Croatian emigration deserves. It is the basis for new programmes, for withdrawing new ones, for attracting new generations to Croatia and for preserving identities. The real need of parents to provide them with support in designing ways of fostering Croatian identity in children in eviction is the office's answer through these three programs, we talked about it as root, it's the summer school of Croatian identity and the summer school of homelands that we've heard a lot. The space, of course, for the promotion, cooperation and integration of the Croatian state and Croatian emigrants, there are many needs, they change, they change very much, they change faster than before, and the report shows that the office is trying to give its right answer to all these needs and news. I believe that new units and already communicating with the emigrants and that the effects of this all-state, central state office will be done. be visible very soon. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42581	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will finally speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42582	The chairman, fellow MPs and MPs are three categories of Croats outside the country of origin of a significantly different status and different rights. First it's our newer emigration, which is hundreds of thousands of people who have moved out in the last few years. From what we've heard today, the state is no longer taking care of them. I mean, it's kind of carved and disappointed how they went and turned their backs on them, and so we showed that we turned our backs on them. We've shown that this country doesn't count on these people anymore. We can be ashamed. The second category is those old emigrations, the old emigration that Mrs. Busic talks about in a way that we spend taxpayers' funds on holding meetings where emotions and love are created, that love and that pain towards the country you couldn't even describe in a word from the Croatian dictionary, but you reached out to German, so much about pathetic and neglect. We are here today to show what is the purpose and purpose of these projects that must have had their own scientific, cultural and even economic value that is measurable. Not that one day we'll see what it's for, but we had to see it today. And to justify ourselves to our hard-lived citizens, they're hard to do, and they don't know why they're full of the state budget because you're wasting it like it's fallen out of the sky. Why are you acting like this? Well, because you don't spend yours. If it were going out of your pocket, we'd think differently. And the third category is Croats in BiH. Sooner or later, and someone has to have the courage to say it here, we're gonna have to change access because you won't be able to keep anyone in a dysfunctional state. So someone here has said less than 300,000 Croats we have in BiH today. So less than it has moved them out of Croatia in the past few years. Talk about love so read the results of our scientist, Tada Juric, and what he says about the causes of eviction. As long as you do not admit that the real reason for the emigration of corruption, the dysfunctional state, is nothing will solve stories about the consistency of the people or financial separations for BiH that actually serve as a form of social assistance, social assistance. By doing so, you turn Croats into social cases that cannot achieve their prosperity there, and thus make them dependent voters who vote continuously for the HDZ that drags them back to that same bottom. So we're not going anywhere, so we're not going forward. It will happen that we will fight not in BiH but in Germany and Ireland for the constitutionality and rights of the election processes of the Croats, and it will not take that long. So, I don't advocate leaving the Dayton Agreement here, I'm not going to argue that I know that there should be a solution, I just know that we need to change something and we need to start talking about it openly right now. Why the Croats are getting less and less, so the SDP did not represent them in BiH institutions. The redundancies from the RS budget for BiH are growing from year to year. So you're saying it's not like that? What's the score? What's the effect? These disappointed people, unhappy people who cannot achieve their potential first come to Croatia, and then see that in Croatia there is only a little better situation and then go to Germany, according to Tado Juric, a professor at the Croatian Catholic University. Read the shocking testimony of the people your politics have disappointed in BiH and then tell me about love, about emotions, about evoking some happy days, Croatian emigration in Peru, South Australia, and I don't know where. These are the policies of immigrants, these are economic immigrants who have gone for whatever reason, and now I'm not going into historical and secular themes, but they haven't left because they've had a great time in their country, and today I can't go back to my country to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42583	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Zvonko Milas, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42584	Thank you very much. Vice-President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. First of all, I have to thank you for today's debate, for everything you've said, for everything you've talked about, and I believe that's how you feel. I thank my colleagues who have helped me in some way today by explaining everything that is happening to me, all that the Croats in BiH feel since they also come from BiH as their residents, residents, and for sure that they can perhaps best pass on all the things that people I believe remain, who are struggling with the challenges of everyday life to understand them better. I would like to say that there are always in all the debates, regardless of what we are trying to ask for some consensus that does not have to be and cannot be certainly 100%-an but regardless of party membership, I wonder if it would be possible for the SDA in the 100% BiH government to have a better conversation with them. And who is it that somehow decides who the people choose and whom they want to represent in all forms of life? Is the same case in the Republic of Croatia? What is most important is that we really try to bring these people closer, first of all to the Croatian public, that we have a constitutional obligation, but first of all, to the humane so that the primacy of belonging to one people and the care of those people. Don't worry literally, not help literally, not financing literally, but connecting, cooperating, anything that will give us a chance to really be together. So, it can't be a floscule and I don't speak fluctually here, I speak frankly from the heart. I have parents or at least one who still comes from these parts and who lived through the war and everything and never gave to the Republic of Croatia a single mention, and in the 1960s, they ran out of everything and started life over and over again after 10 years. I can understand everything, all the political recommendations and all the misunderstandings when we talk about the successes of certain mechanisms such as the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee, I'm not talking about some kind of general success, I'm talking about some kind of progress that people who are intergovernmental mixed committees are talking about and who are the main actors of these international committees and why these committees exist. Even the smallest crumbs, perhaps not as small as the return of the birth home of Ban Jelačić, which is important for the Republic of Croatia, but also for the Croatian community in Serbia, is certainly a shift. Of course, after that there are bad things going on, that this is what we're talking about today, that it comes down to the fact that we don't have a representative in the Serbian Parliament, but we all need to get together, maybe we should get it then. We might get it if we didn't tell each other who did what he did and who didn't do it, it might be easier for all of us. We've taken a lot of time in this debate, I think they deserve it, and I think they deserve to be accepted by the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Once again, thank you all, and I think we need to make every effort together, talk and be as close to all these people as possible, no matter where they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42585	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42586	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. We have seen here in the report that there have been 12 projects for the field of health, which modernization of radiology, homes for older and powerless, etc., means there is much more to be needed. Now, one specific question about vaccination. So in Croatia it's slow, in BiH it's a snail step, you know it's only recently with those Jarovic donations of Sputnik, so something is mentioned, when our people will be split, ok in Croatia, but when will it be in BiH? Has your state office, or in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, considered helping our people in BIH to obtain that vaccine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42587	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42588	Thank you very much. I appreciate the question. Of course, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Central State Office as it was at the beginning of the pandemic is the unpreparedness of many countries, including BiH in equipment and everything that was needed for people to be able to oppose both pandemics and mask diseases and everything when we came up spotlessly. Today we see that, we do not have to lie, we have problems with the vaccine as well as the whole of Europe, and some other countries would say more widely, but surely we are talking and we are ready, that as always we will be looking for ways and solutions to help in the health situation in BiH, not only because of the Croats, but because of the whole of BiH. And I'm sure we'll get the support of all of them I'd say people who really want the situation with the health of our people in BiH and with the health of people no matter where they live to be the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42589	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The report really shows a number of activities being undertaken for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, mentioning support for strategic projects of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, as shown in 2019. 47 projects funded. I would ask you in the end, therefore, regardless of the financing of three projects in Kosovo which are unfortunately of a palitarian nature because it is a humanitarian aid, there is a small group, there are young people and I ask you, it is not only a matter of the state office, at least through the video, it is organized teaching of Croatian language and history for that group of young people in Janjevo because these people, the great majority, will come to the Republic, and unfortunately they do not speak Croatian and learn from textbooks in Serbian, so I ask you here for additional engagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42591	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42592	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Cellic. Before 15, 20 days ago, I was in Kosovo and I was in the Yearbook and Janjevo, I would say that the situation of the Yearbook is too sad, we have 28 families, or people, pardons who are old and sick and who live literally from the soup kitchen that we are helping and we will keep until the end, while in Janjev the situation is so that we have 160 people, so that there are some young people for whom I have promised to focus in particular on them both in the context of the language and in the context of the specific quotas of enrolment in the universities in Croatia, so that these young people will indeed find solutions that will really contribute to them I would say what is needed for their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42593	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Since it's been a while now, we're gonna take a break from the winding up, and I'll see you back here at 3:20. [[Intruder Milas: Thank you very much.]] It's 3:11 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.21 HOURS]] Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That Article of the Rules of Procedure provides that the laws to be adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be governed by international agreements as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Joseph Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42598	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The International Criminal Court of Den Hague, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, was founded by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. It is known in criminal law and international law as the Rome Statute, which was adopted at the United Nations Diplomatic Conference on the founding of the International Criminal Court on 17 July 1998. The Republic of Croatia, which actively participated in the work of the Diplomatic Conference, signed the Rome Statute on 12 October 1998. The Law attesting the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of the Croatian Parliament adopted on 28 March 2001, placing the Republic of Croatia in a circle of the original parties of the Rome Statute for which it entered into force on 1 July 2002. On February 9, 2021, 123 states are parties to the Roman Statute. The International Criminal Court was established as a permanent institution authorised in accordance with Article 5. The Rome Statute to execute its fate against the people for the most serious crimes significant to the entire international community crimes genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression. This law confirms the amendment and addition of Article 8. The Rome Statute (a weapon used by myrcobiological or other biological agents or toxins), amending and supplementing Article 8. The Rome Statute (a weapon which is the main effect of wounding fragments which cannot be detected in the human body by X-rays), amending and supplementing Article 8. The Rome Statute (laser weapons blinding), amendment and addition of Article 8. Article 141 of the Statute of Rome (intentionally resorting to the hunger of civilians) in order to be the same within the meaning of Article 141(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Consistent with the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Rome Statute, the Ministry of Justice and Administration is obliged to implement the amendments to the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore propose to accept amendments and additions to Article 8. The Roman Statute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42599	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42600	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretary, these changes are being consolidated by the international legal framework. When we talk about international criminal law, I would like to draw attention to the Serbian law that has given Serbia the powers of the small Hague, which Croatian Academy of Legal Sciences and international experts have also said is contrary to international supplementary and criminal law. I am interested in what knowledge does the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia have of this law since this law directly harms our Croatian defenders who can be found on the charges of their prosecution without knowing about it? And we have already had cases that literally our citizens have been kidnapped and processed in Serbia besides all legal regulations. Does the Ministry of Justice do anything about it and when can we expect results?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42601	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42602	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Petir, the Croatian Parliament has on several occasions rejected... the jurisdiction of Serbian courts in the way that the Republic of Serbia opposes and the UN Charter, contrary to all international agreements and against international criminal law. As you know, numerous meetings were held with representatives of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. Although we have also been promised by an agreement signed that we will be given information relating to our citizens, unfortunately we must conclude that this cooperation does not exist, that it is not good. We have many problems with Serbian law enforcement even though we have signed several agreements. So, Serbian courts, when it comes to the persecution of crimes committed by their citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the abuse of our prisoners in camps, have done absolutely nothing and are making further efforts to solve the problem through diplomatic means, although it is very, very difficult, given the lack of understanding of our neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42603	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42604	Dear Secretary of State, preparing for this topic, I tried to find some information on the Internet. But I haven't gotten to them, so please, if you don't mind giving me that information. We signed the agreement in 1998 or the Statute, so it's been 23 years almost since then. If you have any information, did any of the signatories in the meantime violate the provisions of that statute?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42605	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I don't have that information. So we have 123 member states that have joined the Roman Statute. As you know about us, according to both the Statute and the international agreements, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which was established by the United Nations Decision. And what was not to repeat the historical structure and the foundation of it was also the Roman Statute, and how many violations there were, I don't have that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42607	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42608	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, here's just one technical question. Please prepare for this debate I simply have not been able to find anywhere, so please tell me what kind of weapons these are whose effect is to head the wound fragments that can't be detected in the human body by X-rays. Thank you very much. I just can't honestly admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42609	Your Honor, we're going to have to ask military experts. This is therefore about the implementation of an international contract to become an integral part of the legal rules of the Republic of Croatia and an integral part of our Penal Code. As you know, a number of sophisticated weapons that occur over time are also changing the statutes so that such special weapons of crime of genocide and war crimes can change laws on both international and domestic legal grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42610	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Croatian Governors' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. No colleagues. Then he loses his right to speak, and then he'll speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42611	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues. The military industry has always been the driver of technological change since the first cold weapons, and since the invention of gunpowder through Da Vinci's and Suleiman's cannons, the springfield rifles that were determined by the course and the very end of the American Civil War, to date the most modern technologies, satellites, drones and cyber warfare. Microwave oven, Internet, computer and many more technological achievements are actually byproducts of military research. Unfortunately, these studies were conducted exclusively for the purpose of finding as effective weapons as possible. One of the old and very sad truths is that the human race is the most creative when it comes to inventing a means of physically destroying another human one. These modern means of battle, which we are discussing here today, are mainly about them in every reasonable person, causing an aggravation and a feeling of nausea, and this is how microbiological or other biological substances are mentioned here as well. Let's mention the horrors of World War I when, for the first time on the French fronts, war poisons and terrible victims were used, and here today this has evolved into microbiological and biological weapons and war poisons. We mentioned that Mr. Salapic and I in this little conversation that neither he nor I currently know what weapons are whose main effect is to wound fragments that cannot be detected in the human body by X-rays. Obviously, here we are, and we are no longer able to monitor the development of the military industry. Laser weapons are used to shoot down satellites, aircraft or drones, and in this case, as the laser weapon is stated here is specifically designed to cause permanent blindness or damage to human vision. Most of these war crimes, or all of these use of funds, include the use of a type of weapon that causes unprecedented suffering and killing in an invisible way. These are all serious violations of laws and customs applicable in an international armed conflict or armed conflict that has no international character. We fully advocate that these amendments and additions of articles become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I will remind once again the use of weapons used by microbiological or other biological agents or toxins using weapons that are the main effect of wounding fragments, and then laser weapons whose purpose is to cause permanent blindness or severe visual impairment, and of course war crimes of deliberate resorting to civilian hunger as a means of waging war by denying the means to survive, including deliberately making access to humanitarian aid more difficult. Today we're in 2021. But I will remind once again of the 90s in which we have experienced forced migration, crimes against the civilian population, excessive shelling of particularly civilian targets, the use of forbidden war weapons primarily in case bombs, forcing prisoners to heavy and exhausting physical labor, starving civilians and prisoners of war, the use of civilians and prisoners in war activities, alienation of art and historical buildings, devastation of religious and cultural objects and monuments, physical abuse and death of prisoners. All these are crimes, or acts that have long been found in various articles of the Roman Statute, and by which most of them, using these horrors, have been condemned by our Croatian homeland, and how righteous some justice is, and also the time, and later history tells their own. In any event, as regards this Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of the National Movements Club will absolutely support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42612	Thank you very much. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Nikola Mažar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42613	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Salapic, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court relating to weapons used by microbiological or other biological agents or toxins related to weapons which are the main effect of wounding fragments which cannot be detected in the human body by X-rays and related to amendments and additions to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for laser weapons which blinds and amends and amends Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court is about deliberately resorting to the hunger of civilians. On the very content of the final bill of this law that is before us is truly exhaustive and all said by the Secretary of State, so it wouldn't make sense to repeat itself. Maybe we should just remember some things. The International Criminal Court, based in Den Hague, was founded by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which was adopted at the United Nations Diplomatic Conference on the establishment of the International Criminal Court on 17 July 1998. The Republic of Croatia, which actively participated in the work of the Diplomatic Conference, has signed the Rome Statute on 12 October 1998. The Law attesting the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of the Croatian Parliament adopted on 28 March 2001, which placed the Republic of Croatia in a circle of the original parties of the Rome Statute for which it entered into force on 1 July 2002. On February 9, 2021, the parties to the Roman Statute were 123 states. The Republic of Croatia is a Party to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court in accordance with which States Parties recognise the International Criminal Court’s international legal personality and legal capacity necessary for the performance of its duties and the fulfilment of its purpose and accept that it enjoys all the privileges and immunities necessary in the territory of each State Party to achieve its objectives set out in the Rome Statute. The International Criminal Court was established as a permanent institution authorised in accordance with Article 5. The Rome Statute to execute its fate against the people for the most serious crimes significant to the entire international community crime genocide, crime against humanity, war crimes and crime of aggression. The Republic of Croatia has already joined the implementation of the Rome Statute into national legislation. This Act confirms amendments and additions to Article 8. Article 141 of the Statute of Rome to the same effect as Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This Law aims to add war crimes to the list of crimes contained in Article 8. The Roman Statute. Each of these war crimes includes the use of a type of weapon that causes unspeakable suffering and killing in an unprecedented manner and constitutes a serious violation of the laws and customs applicable in an international armed conflict as well as in the case of an armed conflict whose importance is not international by adding these new war crimes to an international instrument such as the Rome Statute. The international legal framework is consolidated with the provision of victims of recognition of the crimes they have suffered. It is important to note that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The position of the Republic of Croatia is that only the universal application of the Rome Statute can prevent the perpetrators of the most serious crimes protected by international law from being unpunished and therefore the Republic of Croatia is committed to ensuring that all States of the Roman Statute ensure its full implementation in their national laws and create appropriate mechanisms to ensure the co-operation of the States of the parties and the International Criminal Court and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42614	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative of Domagoj Price will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42615	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court is a major technical issue and is an indication that Croatia is an active part of the international community. The basis of adoption is the Croatian Constitution. Young college lawyers learn from their professors... wars cannot be prevented from being regulated legally in order to prevent the suffering of people. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, the International Criminal Court was created. There have already been specialized courts for the area of the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. The International Criminal Court, based in The Hague, The Netherlands, was established on 17 July 1998 by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted at the diplomatic conference of the United Nations on the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Today, as has already been said, 123 states of the world party of the Roman Statute. Croatia signed the Rome Statute already in 1998, which put our country in a circle of the original parties of the Roman Statute for which it came into force in 2002. Global needs have led to the establishment of the court. The International Criminal Court was founded as a permanent institution to execute its destiny against persons charged with the most serious crimes significant to the entire international community of war crimes, crime of aggression, crime of genocide and crimes against humanity. The relationship between the International Criminal Court and the European Union itself was governed by the Agreement. The Republic of Croatia has already joined the implementation of the Rome Statute into national legislation. Among other things, the co-operation of our country with the International Criminal Court and with the execution of court decisions as well as the jurisdiction of Croatian courts and other law enforcement authorities and the conduct of criminal proceedings for the trial of war crimes offenders was arranged. This established the jurisdiction of the county courts in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka for the conduct of criminal proceedings for certain acts against humanity of human dignity. Three important changes and additions to the yield were subsequently adopted: a weapon which is the main effect of wounding fragments which cannot be detected in the human body by X-rays, a weapon used by microbiological or other biological agents or toxins, specially designed so that its exclusive combat function or one of its combat functions is caused by permanent blindness to either the naked eye or the eye with visual aids. The Secretary-General of the United Nations then informed the states of the party to the Rome Statute that a new point was added on purpose to resort to the hunger of civilians. This Law confirms the amendments and additions of the Roman Statute. In particular, Article 8. to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The war crime of deliberately resorting to civilian hunger as a means of waiving the necessary means of survival, including deliberately making access to humanitarian aid more difficult. It is a good and justifiable position of our country that only universal application of the Roman Statute can prevent the perpetrators of the most severe crimes from remaining unpunished. It is particularly important that all States of the Roman Statute ensure its full implementation. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Let us hope that all of these activities at international level will prevent the suffering of people in conflicts around the world and ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes are punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42616	Thank you very much. We are now going to a final presentation on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42617	Dear Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We all still have fresh memories of the age of 91, 2, 5, and we know with which weapons we were attacked, what we experienced not only on the front lines of the front, but in our capital as well. And then they used non-usable weapons. Unfortunately, the bells fell to Zagreb several times. The penalty bombs were used several times. The damage was great. Human victims are even greater and I think that as a nation that has passed the war and which has passed the war suffering, we have a special obligation to point out to everyone how to behave and how to avoid war conflicts as much as possible. I didn't get the data, I asked Mr. Secretary for information relating to the violation of the Roman Statute by the signatories. There's no such information on the Internet. I didn't even find out if any of the signatories had weapons that were listed inside that should not be used, in that Statute so I couldn't talk much about it. But in any case, I think that as a country that has one negative war experience by its first neighbours, we have to influence everyone else to behave differently and that those horrors that happened on the front and later in the camps about starving our people, the torture of our people and their suffering happen. I can only say that the SDP Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42618	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we move to the next point, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Sports Inspection, second reading, P.Z. No 79 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Tomislav Družak State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42621	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Today it is on the agenda to discuss the final draft law on additions and amendments to the Law on Sports Inspection in the second reading, so allow me, in the opening address, to further explain the reasons for the adoption of this law and the amendments it makes. The law on sports inspection regulates the structure and business, mode of work, rights, duties and powers of sports inspectors or sports inspectors. In view of the fact that the sport inspection carries out control of the implementation of the Sport Act and the basis of the rules adopted in order to ensure the legal functioning of the sport system, it is necessary to provide a legal basis for its uniformly effective and effective treatment. The national reform programme for 2019 identified measures 144 of decentralisation and rationalisation as part of the reform priority of public administration improvements. The following reform measures have been adopted by the State Administration System Act, in which the transitional and final provisions of Article 67 are laid down, in particular, to govern the state administrations in the counties established under the State Administration System Act, shall continue to work until specific laws enter into force which will be entrusted to the counties other than administrative and inspection control offices and the legal certainty of the general acts to be placed in the jurisdiction of the authorities of the State Administration. In accordance with the abovementioned Law amending the Law on Sports Inspection, which was adopted in 2019, which entered into force 1. 1. In 2020, inspection tasks in the first degree were transferred from the authority of the State Administration Office in the county or city control office of the City of Zagreb to the jurisdiction of the Central State Sport Office. This law was adopted in an emergency procedure in order to comply with the new State Administration System Act and could not be intervened in other provisions of the law. The only interventions that were necessary for the new structure of the sports inspection. Since the conduct of sports inspectors in state administration offices in the county and city control offices of the City of Zagreb at certain stages of the procedure was different from the conduct of state sports inspectors of the central state sports office, that is, today, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports are proposing this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection to clarify and define the uniformity of the conduct of sports inspectors. The proposed legal solutions specify the completion of the inspection procedure, set a shorter deadline for the issue of a solution, the obligation to coordinate individual acts of the legal persons in the sport system with the general acts and the Sport Act has been established and a ban on the pursuit of sports activities to a legal or physical person from a system of sports not registered in the register of sports activities. In accordance with the proposed law, the inspection procedure is considered to be the conclusion of the minutes on inspection carried out in which no infringements of the law or the issuing of a solution with a given administrative measure of order or prohibition have been found if infringements of laws and other legal acts have been found. In all advances, allow me to specify and explain the proposed changes in the final lines. In view of the fact that a large number of inspection controls have been published in practice so far, as I have just said earlier by sports inspectors, in which decisions and other individual acts of the authorised bodies of sports associations with the statutes of associations have been found to be inconsistent, and that sports inspectors have been different in the cases in question, the addition of the Law on Sport Inspection has been proposed by the basis of which the sports inspectors are authorised to establish the specified irregularity and to take appropriate measures to remove it. This is the case in Article 1. The final proposal for a law is complemented by Article 9(6) of the applicable law establishing the names of sports inspection operations. We propose an addition in a way that the words “general acts” are added behind the words “with”, which determines the possibility of inspectors to take into account and basic general acts, and that is, above all, the statute so that this new paragraph 6 is now read as follows: “If decisions and other individual acts are made in accordance with the general acts, the Sport Act and the regulations adopted therein.” In Article 2 of this Act, the following is added to Article 15(2) of the applicable Law on Sport Inspection. In accordance with this article, in accordance with the uniform methodological and technical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Assembly in the reference to the second regulation governing the administrative procedure, the current pronunciation of the General Administrative Procedure Act is replaced by the words "the law governing the administrative procedure" so that the new paragraph is now read as follows: "Article 2. Therefore, the minutes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be drawn up, concluded and signed in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the administrative procedure, and shall contain all the facts relevant for the assessment of the subject matter of supervision." Article 3 of this Act establishes the conduct of the inspector unless irregularities have been found in such a way as to end the surveillance of the minutes without the obligation to adopt a solution, in fact supplementing Article 16 of the law in force by adding a new paragraph 4 which reads: ‘In the case referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article no solution shall be adopted.’ Article 4 of this Act amends Article 18 of the current Act which defines the obligation and means of the completion of the infringement procedure by a certain act in such a way as to delete the word ‘infringement’ in paragraph 1 and, after paragraph 2, add a new paragraph 3 which reads: ‘The decisions referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be adopted no later than 15 days from the date of the conclusion of the minutes.’ also, in the previous paragraph 3, which becomes paragraph 4, the words ‘the Law on Infringements’ shall be replaced by the words ‘the Law governing the infringement procedure’. Furthermore, Article 5 of this Act lays down a prohibition on the exercise of economic activity of a person not registered in the Register of Sports Activities, supplementing Article 22 of the Act in force in such a way as to ensure that Article 22 of the Law is implemented. The law on sports inspection shall, more specifically, be deleted in paragraph 1 after point 3 and point 4 shall be added to the following point: ‘to carry out sports activities to a person not included in the register of sports activities’. Article 6 of this Act lays down a time limit for the adoption of a solution which imposes emergency measures in order to shorten the duration of the inspection procedure in such a way that a new paragraph 3 is added in Article 24 of the applicable Law, which reads as follows: ‘In the case of paragraph 1 of this Article, the inspector shall adopt a solution no later than 8 days from the date of the conclusion of the minutes.’ Article 7 of this Act provides that the title of Chapter V of the applicable Law, which bears the term ‘Punitical Provisions’, is correctly specified in a way that the word ‘Punitys’ is replaced by the word ‘Fences’, given that the provisions of Articles 31 and 32 of the law in force are in fact prescribed infringements. In view of the large number of inspections, where it is established that the legal persons of the sport system or the natural persons carrying out their own sport activities carry out the specified activity, although not included in the sports activity register, the possibility of issuing a ban on the performance of sport activities has also been extended to such cases. As regards the criminal provisions of the Law on Sports Inspection, the proposed legal decisions have been separated and the criminal liability of the legal and liability of the legal person in the legal person against the criminal liability carried out by the person carrying out the activity on his own in the system of sport and it has been carried out to refer the infringements to the relevant provisions of the normative part which are subject to the obligations of which the infringement of the same sanctioners and which the reference was missing. Article 8 of this Act prescribes the criminal liability of only the legal person and the person responsible in the legal person in such a way as to separate the criminal liability of that person from the criminal liability of the natural person who carries out the independent activity in the sport system. Therefore, Article 31 of the current Law, which reads as follows: “The fine of between 10 and 50 thousand kunas will be fined for the violation of a legal person in the system of sport if it does not provide conditions for the exercise of supervision or if it does not provide the inspector with the necessary information and information, does not act by means of an inspector’s decision, does not inform the inspector within a certain period of time of compliance with the obligations of the solution, in any way preventing or obstructing the inspector from carrying out surveillance or taking measures and actions for which he is authorised to take measures and actions. And two. An offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall also be punishable by the person responsible in the legal person with a fine of between 5 thousand and 10 thousand kuna." Article 9 of this Act also provides for the liability of a natural person who carries out independent activities in the system of sports and thus separates the criminal liability from the person and the person responsible for the legal person in the system of sport who has not been properly separated. Therefore, the new Article 32 of the current Law, which reads as follows: “A fine of between 10 and 50 thousand kunas, will be punishable for a violation of a natural person carrying out an independent activity in the system of sport unless he provides conditions for the exercise of supervision or if the inspector does not provide the necessary information and information, does not act upon the resolution of the inspector, within a certain period of time, without informing the inspector of the performance of the obligations of the solution, in any way preventing or obstructing the inspector in the exercise of supervision or taking measures and actions for which he is authorised.” And in the end of Article 10 of this Act, given that the inspection procedures under the provisions of the applicable Law on Sport Inspection are governed as administrative procedures, this article shall be laid down to be completed before the entry into force of this Act in accordance with the provisions of the earlier law. I would just like to point out in the end that the provisions of the Law on Sport Inspection relating to the initiation of the infringement procedure are in line with the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts as well as the Laws on Areas and Seats of Courts which entered into force on 1 January 2019. It is also in line with the unique methodological and technical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Assembly when referring to other regulations governing the general administrative procedure or infringement procedure. As for the structure and work of a sports inspection, if you'll allow me to discuss it with you in a few words. A regulation on the internal organisation of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the sports inspection is set up as an independent sector of sports inspection, i.e. as an independent internal establishment unit of the Ministry with two services. The Office of the Inspectorate is performing tasks in the district of Zagreb, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Istria County, Karlovac County, Ličko-Senj County, Zadar County, Sibenik-Knin County, Split-Dalmatia County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County and currently numbers 6 sports inspectors. And this is a sportsman, an independent executive in Rijeka, an independent executive in Rovinj, an independent executive in Karlovac, an independent executive in Sibenik, an independent executive in Split and a head of the ministry headquarters while one job at the ministry headquarters is unfulfilled. The Office of Inspection Two conducts operations in the Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorje County, Sisak-Moslavina County, Varazdin County, Međimurje County, Bjelovarsko-Bilogor County, Koprivnica-Križevci County, Brod-Posavina County, Požega-Slavon County and Virovitical-Podravna County, and currently numbers 9 sports inspectors and one independent perpetrator in Jastrebarska, one independent executive in Varazdin, one independent executive in Bjelovar, one independent executive in Slavonski Brod, one independent executive in Požega and two independent perpetrators in Osijek, one independent executive in Vukovar and one in the head of the service in Bjelovar, while one of the unful inspector. Sports inspectors deployed to the post in the inspection post one and two, where appropriate, may carry out inspections from the part-time service and in the area of another county. The following sports inspection, together with the chief sports inspector, currently numbers 16 sports inspectors, and during 2020 these inspectors, despite the frequent inability to work as a result of the pandemic, carried out 354 controls, which is significantly less than 2019. But then there were other working conditions, and the inspectors themselves felt more. Of these 354 controls carried out in them, 228 cases were found to be irregular and 146 solutions were issued, and in 14 cases, the indictments were submitted. 65 follow-up controls or control of the implementation of the solution have also been carried out. Furthermore, on the basis of monthly plans, sports inspectors carry out inspections in accordance with received applications and regular inspections, taking into account equal control of all sports, and within the framework of the national information system in sport, there is also a module of sports inspection which will include, among other things, the process of planning surveillance in order to reduce the possibility of arbitration to the minimum possible extent. And finally let me briefly refer to some comments from the debate on this Law in the first reading. Ms. Marija Selak Rasdić's proposal for a representative in the Croatian Parliament was discussed in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, which refers to the reduction of the range of fines for infringements of legal or natural persons and persons performing their own activities in the system of sports and the responsible person in the legal person. It is not possible to accept that proposal for a reason at the moment because the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Sports Inspection are only a separate criminal liability of the legal person or the person responsible in the legal person against the liability of a natural person who carries out an independent activity in the system of sport, while the range of fines is not the subject of these amendments and additions. Although the sports inspector is authorised to issue a fine for infringements provided for by the Law on Sports Inspection, it is generally the courts for the infringements provided for by the Law on Sports Inspection which are responsible for the conduct of the infringement procedure initiated by the defendant’s proposal to be filed by sports inspectors after the supervision carried out. Furthermore, we draw attention to the way in Article 33. Infringement law prescribed the minimum and maximum possible amount of penalties prescribed by a specific law. The comments of Ms. Marija Selak Rasdić from the Croatian Parliament on the inaccessibility of the report on the work of sports inspection, which are necessary for the assessment of the existing situation and basic issues to be addressed by the proposed law, have also been considered. I note, and in the debate, I pointed out that the work reports are finished and are published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. Mrs Andreja Marić's proposal was discussed at the Croatian Parliament in front of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives concerning the non-compliance of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending the Law on Sports Inspection. Since the Central State Sport Office has ceased its work on the date of entry into force of the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Authority of the State Administration, and its work has been taken over by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the transitional and final provisions therefore there is no need to amend and the proposal cannot be accepted. Other opinions, proposals and objections to the Proposal for a Law on the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament were not directly related to the subject matter of the Bill proposal and cannot be made clear about it. Our proposal, at the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection, no amendments have been proposed and no amendments have been made to the text of the proposal for a law that passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42622	Thank you very much. We have a few, more actually replicas. He is the first respected representative of Mark Milanovic litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42623	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary General Comrade. On the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament last week we discussed exactly this final bill. As you said yourself, it's the same as the first reading. Unlike colleagues of HDZ who believe that the problem of sports inspection in the sub-disciplining of your inspectors or a small number of inspectors, we personally and Croatian sovereigns feel that your activities are greatly limited by the bad Law on Sport and the Law on Associations that are closely related to your law or your institution. And we think that all these technical changes that we're doing now are going to give birth to a fertile solution to the Sport Act that you yourself announced will come at the end of this year. I sincerely hope that you will be able to solve sports problems as promised in all governments so far, and no one really cared about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42624	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42625	I thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. So, yes, on the Committee on, on the Legislative Committee, I also stressed that it was the same on the Committee on Youth and Sports that it is in preparation, I will not say in the final phase, but in a very high phase of law making, a new Law on Sport that should be resolved until now by accumulated ambiguities and doubts in some way in a good, quality and perhaps a slightly longer way. After that he will also plan the legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the last quarter of this year and I am firmly convinced that he will be in front of you in that time of debate. I also hope that he will be with the great majority if not unanimously adopted, that we will do everything to make this law truly a quality law for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42626	The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, my question is about political abuse in the city of Sisak. Sisak Mayor Kristina Ikić Baniček, through his associates, disables and discriminates on children who train at the hockey club Siscija. He favors another club. Ice hockey started playing in Sisak since 1930. Despite the decision of the Croatian Olympic Committee of Independent Sport Inspectors on the abolition of the Community decision, it continues with its policy and has now expanded to the Croatian Ice hockey Federation, which changes the seat of the National Union that forged the minutes, voluntarily ousts members, established new clubs. So it's an eclectic example of political abuse. Sometimes politicians can play a positive role in sports, but this is a typical example of instrumentalisation of abuse and it seems to me that competent and sporting inspections are powerless.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42628	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42629	I appreciate the question. Yes, this is about one truly as you said a very evident example of a particular political will. The fact is, I'm quite familiar with that subject, although not in detail. Of course, independent inspection or independent inspectors, or inspectors, act independently, independently. It is that it is really disabled by one good part of children and clubs, of course, which deals with this wonderful sport of ice hockey dealing with this sport in the hall which is also funded and built by public funds. As far as the inspections are concerned, we've done everything possible. A administrative dispute has been initiated by the manager of that sports facility and I can say here's the news. These days we have just received a verdict in the first degree where it has been proven and shown and has ruled by the Administrative Court that we were right, but in the first degree. Now we're waiting on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42630	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42631	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, sports, sports can only be positive. We all look forward to a new Sport Act, and I hope it will appreciate all the problems we've had so far. You know, doing a new law to work is one story, but we know that we've had problems for years, that we've had what's also a prominent problem with the relationship between sports and everything else. But I can't resist and I can't take advantage of this moment that you're with us and I'm asking a question that I've asked the Minister in writing, so don't be lazy and then the answer came very quickly. So, July 23rd, the Tokyo Olympics begin. Our athletes, fortunately, do not have to go, at least not all of them to the Pre-Olympics because it was the idea to have pre-Olympic competitions in May and return to their countries and return to Tokyo. My question is, did you organize the split of athletes? Because if we don't, they've been doing it for nothing all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42632	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42633	I thank you for asking and thank you for your initiative. But to take care of it, we take care of it. I had the opportunity to be the day before yesterday at a press conference of the Croatian Union where our new Olympic won or won the right and invitation to the Olympic Games at the recently held European Championship in Hungary, and then I said that we were talking about it. Namely, the plan to vaccinate Olympic athletes and follow-up staff will determine the health profession, or they will assess when best given that they still do not know exactly how much immunity it takes after vaccination, or to what extent it can affect athletes. Yes, we will certainly in due time and this is such a promise and it is achieved and we are talking and thinking about the vaccination of all Olympic athletes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42634	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42635	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is good to make these amendments and to specify ourselves the completion of the inspection procedure, particularly regarding shorter deadlines for issuing a solution and may agree with colleagues who are calling for a new Sport Act. I believe that the new law will bring about better quality changes and solve some of the problems that are in sports today. But I can't agree that all these years sub-disciplining exactly what my colleague mentioned is not the problem of sports inspection itself, because I think it's when we see that we are a sports nation not to mention Split and Split-Dalmatia County how much they contribute to sport. And when we see that we have the number of inspectors in Split as well as I don't know in Sisak, Slavonski Brod or Osijek, I think that's one big illogicality where these sports inspectors only come out on application. They're not carrying out any of the likely activities you mentioned, not to mention educational or some kind of surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42636	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42637	Thank you. Yes, it is, surely one of the problems of perhaps a more efficient city of sports inspection itself is that sub-optimation not in quality but in quantitative terms. So we have as you've heard with the chief of the sector 16 total sports inspectors, and when the sum of how many sports associations there are in a particular county we're far, far away. So, the Split-Dalmatia County, given Split as a city of sport and this county, which indeed exists by a large number of sports should have a minimum of 3 sports inspectors. We're on a sports inspector right now. But, of course, within these possibilities, we manage and try to be as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42638	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42639	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State you have been in sports for a long time and you are now an employee and you know that sport is extremely important for the health of the nation on the one hand, and on the other hand, sports results are an excellent promotion of the state they represent. And, of course, there's a legislative framework. Do you think that the adoption of this Law on Sports Inspection will solve the anomalies that are currently in sport, because you know that some people before you wanted to do so, so they said they'd drain the swamp, but actually the swamp has become even bigger? And will this inspection solve these problems? And are we going to have good sports stories on the news column in the future, not the way we've had it before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42640	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42641	Thank you, Your Honor. So none of the laws unfortunately solved all the problems he's trying to solve, so probably neither these amendments and additions to the Law on Sports Inspection will solve any problems that they may or may not be. These are the meanings of the amendments and the existing Law on Sport Inspection and these amendments that we have proposed we create or provide a good tool to implement this current Sport Act or to make sure that all the components of the sport adhere to that law and that they know that they will be sanctioned if any anomalies occur or do not comply with the legal rules. Of course, it is not ideal and, of course, we will have to work seriously, seriously, and also then on the new Law of Sports Inspection. But I say it will be all in this term, so I believe that we will all participate in the adoption of the Sport Act, but also the Law on Sports Inspection in completeness.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42642	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Comrade. Now let's go, will the rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, so the first one will be on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Most Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42643	Thank you very much. The State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues before us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Inspection Act. Unlike the first reading we are now thanks to the request of my colleague Selak Rasdić we have some basic data with which we can discuss and see what is the situation with the sport inspection. First of all, we're glad you published at least statistical data on the work of a sports inspection. They're very valuable to us as parliamentary representatives. We see from the data that in 2019 while the old model of state administration was in place, while sports inspectors were employees at the same time of state offices in the county, the sports inspection had 21 employed inspectors who carried out 852 inspections. In 2020, the so-called reforms of the state administration system, public administration offices in the counties have been abolished, and the Central State Sport Office and under the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. We've taken over, you've taken over sports inspections. In this takeover, the sports inspection lost five inspectors who most likely decided to become employees in counties where they had higher salaries, so those who did the job because of higher salaries moved to the tourism ministry, higher salaries than in the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. The remaining 16 inspectors are obviously due to a pre-tumbation due to the abolition of the state administration's office in the counties, and then to the removal of the i.e. The suspension of the Central State Sport Office worked in a reduced volume and only 354 inspection controls were carried out in 2020. As regards the independence of the service in the second instance, in the second-degree administrative procedure at the Ministry of Tourism, this service, which was established by the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in 2020, did virtually nothing since it was the solution of sports inspectors in 2020.20. No complaints were made for the year and no second-degree proceedings were made. So they're absolutely doing nothing, and the number of inspections themselves is down. And now we're just seeing what the real situation is. It is only in this reading that we see the true state of sports inspection in Croatia. The permanent stellar pretumbations carried out by this government in the past, but in this too, it was reduced to the work of sports inspection to 1/3 of what was done a year ago in 2019. So just 1/3 of what was a year ago that they've done a lot of wild pre-tumbations and what they've led to. The number of controls, which means the number of controls that was in 2019. 850 fell into 350 surveillance in 2020. In fact, a quarter of people left the sports inspection allegedly due to low wages, but therefore a special unit was established for appeal procedures in the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in which the regulation provides for a framework of 5 jobs, but which literally have nothing to do. I hope that you, the Ministry and the Government will admit after this information and the fact that you've done one mess in this entire verse. That you've reversed the situation in our sport. That you have disrupted the work of sports inspection as a whole and thus opened a space for illegalities and irregularities in Croatian sport. All this stuff I said, I said on the basis of statistical indicators that were published by my colleagues in, our colleague from my club, Mrs. Selak Rasdic. I would once again say sport, sports inspection legality very important and what, sport is very important as developmental, as mainly in us in Croatia, and otherwise from the development of a child from kindergarten to, to the first league teams, either football or any other. However, poor, poor work and as it is created by frequent changes, often here as you have seen the results coming that are chaotic. Here these days, I have to mention the problem, I'm a Hajdukovac, first of all a hero and an Alkarst in basketball, of course, and I mentioned it all and as a man in this area I know what it means and let's say for the smaller middle of my Alkar basketball club, which means for my fan group Maligani, which means sport for the identity of these smaller, smaller towns I don't care about Sinj, but that's how it is in all cities and I think what happened in sports and what's happening now around the Dinam football club and what's going on around their president Mamic, the justice of Đura Sesse where it can't be otherwise without a bag, see what it has led to and what situation. I think we should go as he branded Croatia through football and through Janica skiing through her brother, through other sports, numerous athletes, it is difficult to list them, I think that sport and negativity in sport is guilty and inspection and competent over inspection. It's not the guilt of these people personally and individually, but in this chaos, the reshuffles, that we see in this whole round round that instead of going forward we're going back. So what's the reason? According to these statistics, the reconstruction done by the Croatian government has led to chaos. And I hope you accept this as well-intentioned, this is not malicious as I said, this is well-intentioned. And I expect you'll still be doing sports inspections doing your job in the interest of developing a sport that's still predetermined for richer and larger environments. I am sorry that it no longer invests, this is out of inspection, but it is important to emphasize when we talk about inspection, and to you as the first man in that pyramid, you are still in charge of sports in the Croatian government within the tourism ministry, that many areas do not literally have conditions for sport. I can list a number of places, here a colleague from Drnis makes it his head that many of our children do not have the ability to practice sports, I hope you will take that even development of sports infrastructure. You need to invest more where you belong in rural areas, you have to. Here I would ask you to come to my Sinj so you will see what potential we athletes have, come to Drnis, come to Makarska, come to Metković, come to Imotski, come to Zagorje, come wherever you want, to the Island, here in origin... a colleague in the island of Dalmatia you will see that there is potential, there are children, but you can't help the state is all that goes to the county from the country that essentially ends up there with a clerk or somewhere that pays. It's a stream water heater that's full of rocks and it's clogged. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42644	The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marko Milanovic litre will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42645	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Secretary of State. On the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of HS, whose member I am, last week we also discussed this law that is before us today. In a conversation with the secretary of state and after his presentation, I have confirmed to myself everything most sports employees or clubs already know. As a longtime sports participant in Zagreb and Secretary-General of the Boćar Club "Storm" I can boast that I did not have any touch points with sports inspection, although I am familiar with all the shortcomings, problems, challenges that sports inspection and colleagues from other clubs face, but from the alliance meet at the weekly level. But let's take the turn. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport Inspection in this final form does not, unfortunately, bring about any important changes that are necessary to address the problems facing sports associations or association of recreational and professional sports in Croatia. This is just technical compliance with the accompanying laws. During the first reading of this law, HDZ counterparts warned of the lack of sports inspectors who oversee the compliance with the laws that they say should facilitate work and staffing them and most likely with political counterparts who have party cards in their possession. This attitude towards the action of a sports inspection is absolutely and categorically guilty and I'll tell you why. Because the problems do not have sports inspections to solve the problem in sport do not stem from a small number of sports inspectors, but from a much deeper problem of the lack of the will of the ruling to solve the problem of Croatian sport once and for all. Sports inspection should have greater powers in solving the problems of sports associations, but it does not have those powers. They are gone because two key laws that are closely related to this law are often in conflict with one another, I am talking of course about the Law on Sports and the Law on Associations, and sports inspection together with sports associations or clubs often remains powerless between these two laws. Inconsistencies lead to major injustices and problems between national and county alliances or associations of associations and clubs i.e. an association whose conflicts are the most affected by just the ones that the sport inspection should protect. According to the law, the registered Sports Federation must accept, in the form of its association, any legally registered sports association in that sport in its field of action, which fulfils all the legal requirements and which has sent such a request, and not without reason, that it may refuse the acceptance of the association, and the competent administration reacts to this orally by reason that it is possible under Article. The Sixth Law on Associations, which is completely wrong and illegal because the Sport Act was to be applied here. In order to present this problem to the public, I will take the example of the County chess alliance, which for some reason ceased its action. In line with the guidelines of the National Chess Federation, it is necessary to establish a new alliance at the county level which, under the Law on Associations, can be regarded as three chess clubs whose board invites all clubs, 10 of them, which are registered under the Sport Act to join the new alliance. The board of directors of the new alliance accepts membership of 9 of 10 clubs and rejects the application of the 10th club and sends a decision without any explanation, although this club should be fully equal with other clubs because this club, like all other clubs, is registered under registration rules and the Law on Sport and Associations. As I said, the reason I refused to join the 10th club is not officially known, but there are a number of reasons why such malfeasances over the law and procedure occurred. One of them and the most common reason, which may be agreed by the Secretary of State, are personal animosities and disagreements between individuals or club leaders and alliances. Another reason is fixed budgets that are evenly allocated to alliance clubs. The problem arises if the 10th club has an example. First category athlete. In this case, the allocation of the fixed budget can be drastically changed in the division and in favour of the 10th club, which is of course not in the interest of other clubs of that alliance. But there is also a question of sports success, in fact, it would be more accurate to say the failures of other clubs because a club that has first-class athletes in hand, for example, will likely be one of the best clubs in the competition. And we must not forget the political resemblance or the incomparability of club management. Although it is not publicly and officially spoken anywhere, it is often the very reason not to implement the Sport Act. In his quest to become members of his parent union, the 10th club in all available ways tries to convince the leadership of its alliance to accept him into membership, which they refuse at any time. Afterwards, the tenth club complains of a sports inspection that conducts inspection surveillance within a reasonable time frame and according to the Sport Act provides a solution in favour of the tenth club. After a solution delivered that the leadership of the alliance does not respect and remains in its decision not to accept the 10th club into its alliance, the 10th club once again complains about the sport inspection due to discrimination and the sport inspection once again enters the field and once again determines what they have found for the first time. Such a decision is contrary to the Law on Sports and the Statute of the newly established alliance. Often in such disputes, sports inspection is the first to strike because of its inability to carry out what should be ensured by the Sport Act. Sports inspection is expected to have a quick and clear decision that will have the possibility to punish or implement the Sport Act because this scenario that I have presented lasts for up to a few years without a clear solution. This scenario has destroyed numerous sports clubs all over Croatia from bottles, athletics, football, tennis, basketball and others. Some clubs have filed charges against their parent alliances and received these lawsuits. In the rulings, the alliances are punished with several thousand kunas without the condition that clubs are accepted into alliances because the Associations Act is not fully in line with the Sport Act. I have personally seen information on the inspection procedure carried out in several cases, and I must note that these notifications are difficult to understand what they have taken, why and what decisions they have made and to when they need to be applied by the alliance. I repeat again, here I do not think that the problem in the sports inspection itself is in need of systematic change in Croatian sport and the Law on Associations. And if by any chance those 3 laws were harmonised, it is very likely that they would not listen to convicted criminals from neighbouring countries representing the Croatian public as reformers of the Croatian judiciary today. Recently on public television on Sunday, 2th Mayor Siska Kristina Ikić Baniček said that despite the decision of sports inspection and arbitration of the Croatian Olympic Committee, she will not respect any decision and allow hockey players to maintain their activities in the ice hall. Speaking of Mrs. Ikic Baniček, who shamelessly ignores the law's calls, let's remember that it is the SDP government, we see that today the hall is full of SDPs here, they are very interested in this topic. The SDP government has just announced a large sport and person cleaning such as Zdravko Mamic, who is also able to commit serious crime. To date, despite the introduction, adoption and amendment of existing laws, the situation is no better. All governments have declaredly supported the fight against crime and corruption, but the shifts are minor. Neither are existing laws, nor have these laws allowed sport to develop in such a way as to attract money or allow privatisation under existing laws, which is the same legitimate model of operation. We also have a membership model that only exists on paper. And just recently, we have an absurd case in Mammichev Dinam that the club's administration appoints an assembly that then confirms the decisions and work of the administration. A system that's only possible in North Korea. If Dinamo or any other club is a member, if it is about associations of citizens, then it is necessary that these members make at least part of the decisions and participate in the selection of club management and assess the work of administration as well as in democracy each should be responsible for their actions and give citizens, or in this case members to be elected and elected. Either the law will be implemented and the offenders sanctioned, or you gentlemen can say you don't care about sports and athletes. And indirectly from a dear nation because neither professional nor recreational sport is organised and legally framed and supported appropriately. Such a mess also repels people from sports, rejects sponsors and damages the image of Croatia as a country that sport has celebrated. Let's fight the state to help sports, and it doesn't help you to make it all go away. not everything remains on the amount of enthusiasts, but to finally form a sports system in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42646	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42647	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, we have in our second reading, i.e. the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection. We had it recently, a month ago in our first reading, and I'd say the same condition, same distance. What we have in the second reading is about the same thing that was in the first reading, and you explain why you could not adopt some remarks. So, in fact, this is one thing I would say to the technical changes that you have decided to make because you yourself said that the provisions of the Law on Sports Inspection are required by the basis of excellent, certain decisions, and they were different on the same administrative matters to specify and clearly define in order to ensure uniform treatment of sports inspectors in the field of Croatia as a whole. So that's what we asked the question at the time and you had such provisions that they were different actions and you now agree with the technical law that 16 inspectors, so the inspector has less than the county, we have 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb, can bring the same solutions the way these solutions are made, the way these solutions are delivered. And we don't have anything to say, nor do you have to do it. So I can't be absolutely impossible to have different actions. I will lead this debate in fact on three topics, one topic of general inspectors, another topic is the Law on sports and athletes and the third topic of sport and athletes in the context of the new situation, i.e. the crowns in which they live. So, the first topic is to be an inspector is not just me always saying it, and I always stress, the inspector must also know who the sports inspector is, must know a lot more than the Sport Act. He must also know all the laws based on certain solutions, in this case he must know well the Law on Associations and must whenever he goes out and does any surveillance, whether he is on application or is under supervision within his regular supervision, he must know much more than he controls. And then there's the ratio of knowledge, experience and pay. Of course, if wages are inadequate, and they are often inadequate wages, you have people who know and learn and go and that's the fate of working in the state administration. So, you can invest in someone, because when you get to a certain level says check a little, I can go and get a lot more than it is doing your job as an inspector who's not easy, which is not easy because the automatic relationship he's watching, the wait little he's come here now and he's asking me for something and why he came here. I always think that the role of inspectors is no matter what activities and those of some kind are educational. I think it would be very good, and we've advocated that, let's say, once a year, inspectors have some sort of education when, of course, we go on living in normal times, now it's possible through certain Zoom conferences that they actually do some kind of round tables, that they're doing some kind of education, and that they all don't repeat the same mistakes because, you know, sometimes they all repeat the same mistakes or they say... there's a recent inspection, so what she found out, so she found out. It seems to me like once a year to make some kind of round table, make comments about those common mistakes that are repeated. I was president of an alliance, everyone thinks that in his alliance it's the hardest and logical thing to do, that alliance is about Olympic sport and there I am a little bit, I wanted a little bit in the other direction, but a colleague when he talked about how clubs join. Indeed, you get clubs that need to satisfy three or four things, he's satisfied it and you join him in the alliance, so I've been at the head of an alliance where you have amateur sport, so kids who sail in optimists so amateur sport later lasers, twos and I don't know what not and you have top sports, we've called it Olympic categories that have a whole other story and you have a cruise problem. In this Croatian sailing alliance, our biggest problem was the crusaders. So someone starts their own club so that they can organize regattas, join you in the alliance and become a member of the alliance and he regularly pays an annual membership fee that is not too big, but then you get the key problem of a congregation where you have to make some decisions where this one doesn't even show up because he doesn't care at all and then you can't have a congregation, so everyone has a story. On the other hand, when you say crusaders, then everyone thinks wow great, there's someone coming now, but they're not even interested in this amateur sport, so there's no relationship, and the ultimate Olympic sport is even less, they're interested in having their own club, so they can organize regattas that they're some kind of summer regattas. So everyone here has some kind of interest, and the basic interest should be sports. And so I'm absolutely sure, I'm glad the secretary of state said the next sentence, I can't exactly say that the law is in the final stage and it's good that it is. So every sport and it's like in your life when people talk about different jobs, everyone thinks his job is as hard as we thought when we went to college everyone thought his college was the hardest, that his jobs were the most specific, and that's how you get in sports, everyone sees theirs. You have sport, you have differences between team and individual sports, you have sport where in a relatively short time you can achieve a top score. I always read the high score in the context of the Olympic Games, don't mind me, but when you're in a sport that has good success with it, you generally have excellent Olympics, continuous European champions, world champions watch it, it's me that sort of result in that sport. You have a sport you can live on, you have a sport you're never gonna be able to live on, you have a sport where after 15 years you come up with some result, but then you last the next one, then you go to five Olympics and you make a big score. And you now have all this amateur sport, so great sport, so team sport, so you have to put different sports in one sport law, and all the sports are ultimately read through football. It's clear to me why football can be done every child in this world and every child, regardless of whether he's an adult, I don't know in Tanzania or he's grown up in the Maldives to say it or he's grown up in Greece or in Croatia he can do football and see that he can become Luka Modric is the kind of example we have that we can read through and live in football. When you live well, then you have football managers, of course, who make it out of it, but that's something where we all recognize it. But we have great athletes, Croatia is always full of our heart when it comes to some European championships, world championships, and when we achieve more good results, but behind each result there is a lot of effort, a lot of work, there is a family that is ultimately committed to it. I was always there to talk about the Ivanišević family and Goran Ivanisevic where the whole family was in a position to one day become a world-class athlete and we now need to make it all together into the Sport Act then you still have associations there and it simply can't be easy. This one wasn't born who satisfied everything, but at least let's see what problems we have and that those of you who are in the system or system error we don't repeat. This should be important to us, that if we see that we have some kind of mistake, that we do not repeat that mistake, and that is where I come to the role and importance of sports inspection. If the inspection goes out, if regular surveillance finds that 5 alliances have the same mistake in the same way, then it means something's wrong, so let's do it in the Sports Act. That it's easy, it's not. If our emotions were particularly great when it comes to sports, we don't have to do it either, but what we all need, so this is really technical law, and we also supported it in our first reading, we will also support it in the second reading. What I always read in the law lay down what is your problem and function in a way that all of Croatia, my people have less than 4.4 million, you have 16 inspectors, so it is unacceptable that the 16 inspectors we have operate in different ways and read the law in different ways. So you can clean it up, and I'll leave the sport and the crown for the individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42648	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42649	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate and such spontaneously gathered few colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that here is not a respected representative of Bulj who mentioned quality or legitimacy or the rule of respect for the laws of sports associations and clubs in his field. As he spoke, I looked a little into the history of the city of Sinj and found that famous many known information that the city of Sinj had a pool of Olympic dimensions in 1953. Unfortunately, in 2021 today, we cannot boast about a large number of primarily swimming pools. Why did I start with the pools? Because I believe that sport or body culture is a prerequisite for the quality of the development of each individual. Each individual must develop both physically and intellectually so that one day we have a real citizen, a citizen socially, a family or in any other way a useful person. Now that we're talking about recreation, you're already seeing a little bit of everyone on the jumbo posters, the commercials are starting to advertise tennis, running schools, and so on. Many associations start with outdoor recreation in many Croatian cities and have the opportunity to perform free outdoor exercises. This is one we can freely say the initial level of practice by some kind of recreation or if nothing else at least maintain some level of physical conditioning. Above that, of course, there will be amateur sport as one of the most important things that every country and so Croatia must support, and as a boy alone, it was an amateur sport of course, and I know how much heat there is, how much passion there is, how much love in those children, and, of course, in those coaches, sports educators who work with them. And it is clear, of course, that they also need the quality of the Sport Act and these kind of changes to the Law on Sports Inspection so that all these 16 inspectors can say that the people are judging by the same archaic, and then, of course, we come to professional sport. A sport whose results were individual or collectively one of Croatia's absolute greatest ambassadors while it was a young country in creation. We were at that moment in a terrible war, and our athletes really did a fantastic job in promoting Croatia and, of course, at its own international recognition. Unfortunately, the current sport in Croatia, ha will not tell the livers, but it is definitely not what we would like it to be, both from the professional and the amateur, and also through those small associations, through recreational sports. Not to mention now not to say that everything is always negative, but a series of affairs with a trial primarily for those in football, some of which resulted in judgmental and prison convictions that were just being held, have shown us how much the fabric of football has actually rotted in Croatia. And here is currently one former respected sports worker is now an angel of justice that solves the Croatian judiciary from another country. There's still a lot, a lot, a lot of problems. The fight is constantly under way both in Croatia and globally against the use of illicit stimulative means, and, of course, sports workers must be very careful. As the esteemed representative Mrak Taritash mentioned for a full year, we are in a completely new, completely different situation. A situation where we are globally struggling with the pandemic of Covid-19. And it has greatly influenced sports in Croatia, primarily as we all noticed the commission and parents, from the ban on training, from the ban on training for those youngest. At that age, it is certain that these children should be given the opportunity to use their excess energy in this way. We also need changes to the Law on Sports because here, as already said in several speeches, the Law on Sports and the Law on Associations and now this Law on Sports Inspection, which we are now working on a little bit. I looked at some data, according to the latest at least to me available state and local self-government units account for almost 53% of Croatia's sports club income. For the comparison in Germany, it is 16%, in Norway 11, in the UK. Well, now I wish Croatia could side by side with these listed countries by the number of medals won at the Olympics, at world championships in any sport or European championships and tournaments, but unfortunately we can't. So we stand out three, almost 3.5 times as much as Germany, and we don't achieve nearly that kind of results. Now, where could there be a cause? Obviously, some sport isn't good, obviously we're missing top-school sports managers. Do we have such educational programs at educational institutions in Croatia, and we can and should ask ourselves that question. I hope that the need for such a profiled workforce for educated sports managers will soon be shown in Croatia. For example, a football coach, you know, should have a great experience through sport as the most often active player, and then some go to judges, some simply leave a football career, and some have to finish very, very, very high and demanding schools and constantly perfect themselves, and for people who run clubs in Croatia, the criteria are weak or none, so almost everyone can become a sports manager. As far as the amendments to the laws are concerned, we'll repeat, we absolutely don't see here as the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club, nothing controversial. We would like to increase the number of sports inspectors if it is certainly easier for these people to work, we see, of course, a deadline for making solutions that express administrative measures, that is, one of the members of the Homeland Movement is a Croatian centrifugal representative and I talked to him a little bit and he himself likes these changes because he himself says that sometimes alliances or persons who are under, under the supervision of the inspection are trying to tighten the process in all possible ways, I hope that these changes will make things impossible. And what else could I add here at the very end? No, it's not a sports inspection, it's not a small number of sports inspectors, it's not the law. The law is as good or as bad as we all stick to it and respect it and as well as the quality of it by organisations or institutions. Unfortunately, here in Croatia politics has tightly squeezed sport in its claws, especially when we talk about professional sports, and a bit now amateur sport, of course on some lower and obviously significantly less luxuriant instances. Since I have come to the end of my debate, I will, of course, say, the House of State Club will support these amendments to the Law on Sports Inspection. But allow the Honorable Mr. Chairman to once again express my bitter dissatisfaction on behalf of all MPs and MPs of the Homeland Movement on the fact that today, between 12 and 13, 16 and 17 hours, we are discussing the Rome Statute and I am not saying that it is irrelevant sports inspection, and last night, by half past three, we discussed something as important as the Interpelition on the work of the government on the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. This is what the behavior of the people who run HS really needs to be extremely condemned and I am doing it this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42650	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection. The HDZ Club will continue to support improving the conditions for the development of our athletes, the availability of sports content and activities, improving infrastructure and investment in sport, and this includes improving the supervision of the legal functioning of all stakeholders in sport. The development of sports can only go hand in hand with the development of supervision of the fulfilment of the prescribed and law of certain obligations of all stakeholders we see as well as monthly plans for regular and even surveillance of all sports, and exceptional surveillance on accepted applications. It is clear to all of us that one of the reasons for these amendments to the Law on Sports Inspection which entered into force on 1 January 2020, which put inspection tasks in the jurisdiction of the then Central State Sport Office in the first instance, and that these are interventions that are necessary for quality work within the framework of the new structure of the sport inspection. We do not invest in sports only when we provide funding for sports activities and when we provide funds to maintain jobs in sport with measures such as these during the coronary crisis. We also invest in sports when in the normative part we solve problems that we are obliged to deal with because we have seen them in practice, because those who are engaged in sports draw attention to them and because the changed circumstances within our wider legislation have given us this task. The HDZ Club, which supported this amendment and the addition of the Law on Sports Inspection, which remained in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry while others continued to operate within the main state inspectorate, examined the structure, description of jobs, methods and methods of work, rights, duties and powers of the sports inspection staff, took note of the fact that there were no fundamental objections on this proposal, and assessed that there were improvements and precision to facilitate their work. That's why we support him in this reading. We support it because we believe it will improve the supervision of entities in the system of sports, associations, institutions, companies, and other legal and physical persons performing sports activities, which is in the interest of both athletes and Croatian sports as a whole. All of us are in the interest of having sport activities in accordance with the prescribed technical and health conditions that persons participating in sports competitions have the right health skills and that everyone respects the rules that are there to avoid and to minimise all unwanted situations and their consequences. We hope that all stakeholders in sport will make their legal behaviour easier to work on the sport inspection and that, as in earlier years, we will not testify to solutions that determine the violations of certain legal prohibitions, in which there will be no withdrawal of competition licenses due to non-compliance with the prescribed conditions, in which we will not meet the discrepancies of the statutes of certain sports organisations and alliances with the Sport Act, in which there will be no need to establish that the professional job of coaches perform unprofessional persons or that individual employment is carried out in an illegal manner. That there will be no illegal employment of the leaders of individual alliances and generally the conduct of duties that are incompatible with the provisions of the Sport Act, and that no orderly records of all the participants of any organised sporting activity are kept. We also believe that those who are subject to surveillance will have the right to participate in all stages of the procedure, the right to declare all the facts and circumstances that are laid down in the procedure. Each inspection must act as quickly as possible in its work as foreseen by the deadlines for handling and have a quality basis for uniform and effective treatment, and in particular because it is necessary to avoid making different decisions on the same administrative matters, which is also possible for these amendments. We expect sports inspectors to consider, on the basis of the state of play set out in the minutes, measures or actions authorised by law, professionally and with due care, all concepts or other notifications to the inspection and, on the basis of the law, assess the need to initiate the inspection procedure, because we can only expect from this belief that irregularities in this segment will be less and that the grounds for sanctions will thus be less frequent. And that's what I believe in the interest of us as representatives and competent ministry and sports inspectors and the very stakeholders in sports. The report on the work of the sports inspection, which has been published in the meantime, shows that the number of sports inspectors currently doing the job is somewhat reduced from 21 to 16 in accordance with the new laws of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, and not more than from the position of the county sport inspector, so, given the other data, it could be incorrectly concluded that their work has been reduced and reduced through a small number of inspection controls, and then a small number of identified irregularities of the solutions issued and the proposals submitted and the infringements issued. However, it is the fact that over the past year it has greatly limited the work of sports companies, has unfortunately reduced the scope and possibilities of their activities, and this has also reflected the figures mentioned on the surveillance carried out. We hope that these restrictions will not last much longer and we call on the ministry to welcome this moment ready and with full capacity when it comes to the number of sports inspectors. For HDZ, it is important that sports inspectors continue to be absolutely independent in their work, that the whole course of the procedure until the very beginning until the final solution work independently without any pressure from any policy, any stakeholders relying solely on the provisions of this law and the Law on Sports. And finally, in the first reading of the change we are talking about, 122 votes were adopted by representatives of this high house. I believe that after this debate, there will be conditions for us to adopt these amendments unanimously because I believe that the promoter has responded very well to all the doubts that have been raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42652	The next debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the esteemed representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues in good afternoon, I will present several observations or proposals on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. First, I would refer to Article 5. The law on sports inspection which states that under other conditions that must be met by a person at the workplace of a sports inspector should also have a working experience on relevant jobs. So it takes three years of that professional experience for a sports inspector, four years for a senior sports inspector and seven years for a major sports inspector. I think this provision is somewhat general. It may stay that way, but I think it would also be necessary to require experience in sports, for example. at least 5 years of work experience in sports, preferably in the management of sports organisations. In this connection, it would be helpful to introduce perhaps a mandatory one - year education before obtaining a licence. This specifically refers to the identification of all kinds of violence and harassment. Education is like everywhere and here is a key step in prevention. This is not contrary to the appeal of a few colleagues for, for staffing the sports inspectorate, this would or would contribute to the professional empowerment of sports inspectors. Furthermore, some of the deadlines set by this law may need to be reconsidered, some may even extend. For example, if a sports inspection gives an order to put out of force or to amend a rule for which a congregation of an association is responsible, the statute of that association may already in itself impose a longer time limit for sending a call. Invoking congregations. This is, in fact, an unnecessarily and unnecessarily brought about by this association in a situation of intermittent behavior. And on the other hand, some deadlines should, perhaps, be shortened and significantly shortened, which I will soon say something more about. In general, fines should be better differentiated and we intend to make them more progressive for organisations with high annual incomes. One and the same fine for one and the same financial offense clearly does not have the same weight for a small amateur company with low or almost minor incomes and for organisations with high annual incomes. A particularly painful issue is all the phenomena of violence and harassment. An important part of the problem here is the non-recognition of various forms of harassment, especially children, because sometimes a competitive environment and pressure of expected or expected sports results can cloud or cover up cases of harassment, including violence that even the victim does not have to be fully aware of. There is room for progress on this plan, in Art. 16. The Law on Sports Inspection, whose section 2 says that the inspector is obliged to carry out supervision and some conduct if he determines any irregularities, even if that segment of the activities of the sports society or association or organisation was not an initial subject of supervision. How is this article, then. 16th amending this Act on Amendments and Supplements, the Rules of Procedure allow us to intervene here with the amendment and we will submit, in fact we have already submitted an amendment that introduces a new item in Art. 16, whose purpose is that the inspector is obliged to report any act of violence or harassment to the children to the prosecutor for the children. In general, it is necessary to coordinate the sport inspection, sports inspectorate and the Ombudsman for children and with regard to education and prevention, in particular with regard to the eradication of any form of violence and harassment in sport. Finally, Art. 4th of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection, i.e. Art. 18th fundamental law in which this Law on Amendments and Supplements intervenes, here, therefore, in that Article. 18. talks about the deadlines for the infringements. We think that it is necessary to introduce more rigorous measures and to shorten deadlines if actions that threaten the health of children and young people are established. And here we have submitted the amendment extending the provision of Art. 3. 18. Amendment and supplemental laws. Namely, in the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements, in its article. 4th, it appears, Art. 18. The law on sports inspection, in accordance with Article 2, is added to the new section 3 which reads as follows: ‘The decision referred to in Article 2 of this Article shall be adopted by the inspector no later than 15 days from the date of the conclusion of the minutes’. This is therefore the newly proposed sentence. We agree with this provision, but we would like to supplement it so that this new paragraph can now, according to our proposal, read: “The decision in Article 2 of this article is required to adopt no later than 15 days from the date of the conclusion of the minutes, and, exceptionally, in the case of infringements of basic human rights, and the health of athletes and athletes is required to suspend responsible trainers and trainers until the completion of the procedure, and an emergency solution is issued within 3 days”. It was an example of such a situation. In fact, it can happen and there has been a competition or tournament where we have children and young people who have expired the health certificate and have been identified in a previous medical examination by a health problem that may put them at risk. The additional problem is that the sports inspectorate rarely oversees sports competitions or sports tournaments themselves, usually organizers, delegates and other officials are responsible on these occasions. However, there have been cases in competitions, cases of heart failure in young people caused by heat, fatigue, dehydration and the like, and because of such and similar situations, we think it is necessary to react vigorously and rigorously in order to ensure maximum protection of the health of athletes, especially children and young people. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42654	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42655	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. During the debate at the first reading, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports Inspection almost all supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. It is not disputed whether the law should be brought into line with the provisions of the other laws, regardless of what was happening with a considerable time-out and what was to be done before or shortly after the abolition of the Central State Sport Office, which ceased with the work of the date of entry into force of the Law on the establishment and the part of the body of the state administration, in particular on 22 July 2020. But that is not the only reason for the proposed changes because one of the reasons that is listed is the diversity of the conduct of sports inspectors in the offices of the state administration, in the county and City Control Office of the City of Zagreb in certain stages of the procedure from the conduct of state sports inspectors. State sports inspectors are until July 2020. Worked at the Central State Sport Office, afterwards business from their district was taken over by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. Therefore, the need for the provisions of the Law on Sport Inspection was demonstrated on the basis of which different decisions on the same administrative matters could be made and clearly defined with a view to ensuring uniform treatment of sports inspectors. This is how uniform practices are practiced in the work of courts and it is necessary to welcome the intensity made in this law. Only with the provisions of this law does it specify the completion of the inspection procedure. A shorter deadline for the issue of a solution has been established, the obligation to comply with individual acts by legal persons from the sport system with the general acts and the Sport Act and the prohibition to carry out sports activities to a legal or physical person from the sport system who is not included in the registration of sports activities. It is not clear why this has not been specified before and why space has been given to both legal and physical persons in the system of sports to do so far and actions that are obviously not in line with moral and positive legal norms. The same question is raised for inspectors who had to be defined within what time limit to complete the inspection of the supervision as if there were no management of them to perform tasks and to determine the time duration of activities on those tasks which are required to control their work, which is required to control the result of their work and as if all of them were not in the interest that the inspection should be completed as soon as possible and that access to corrective actions should irregularities in the work of natural and legal persons in the sport system be found. It is also confusing that the obligation to comply with individual acts of the legal persons in the sport system with the general acts and the Sport Act is only now prescribed because, even when registering the sports association or club, the Office of the State Administration should review the documentation, the minutes from the founding assembly, the statute that is in line with the Law on Sports, the declarations of impunity and the other documents necessary. This shows how work could have been done so far, even though we have to point out that most associations and clubs are in the interest of keeping everything in line and doing things in accordance with legal standards. The problem is with those clubs and associations that have the urgency to cloud the situation as much as possible and that everything that is not strictly prescribed is applied in a way that suits the legal person most, rather than taking care of the interests of the alliance and the municipal alliance or the city and county and ultimately the National Sports Federation. What is a notorious fact is that it is necessary to amend the Sport Act as soon as possible. Since sports inspectors carry out inspection supervision of the implementation of the Law on Sports and Regulations adopted on the basis of it and take the measures and actions for which we are authorised by law, it is obvious that the Law on Sports Inspection will have to be changed again soon after the adoption of the new Sport Act, and we have heard it from you today. I'm sorry we didn't approach the problem differently, I'm sorry we didn't turn the bill around a little bit so we didn't do the same question twice. Unfortunately, this is another example of a non-systemic approach, as well as the adoption of a series of laws which did not precede other laws, and should have, as well as when defining in the law, passed executive acts by ministers, and later on, we have a waiting period until all this has been carried out in action. It's not a criticism of you, it's not your fault, it's not your fault, it's not your fault, unfortunately here's what happened, and we're going to do some of the things that are necessary again, we're going to do it again. I hope that the new Sport Act will be such that it will solve a lot of problems in our clubs and in our associations, sports associations and will contribute to further development of sports and, of course, the health of children and youth. I hope that the new Sport Act will also define stricter control of the financing of sports associations and clubs and more stringent control of the spending of funds, as these are the resources from the budget of the units of local self-government, regional administrations and the state budget, as well as funds recognised by public companies. So far, sports inspectors and audits have rarely found faults, even among the largest sports associations and clubs that have been exposed to the Croatian public and that we all see, hear and read about how they risk legislation. Unfortunately, it is also present in smaller clubs, especially when this sport is in a smaller place or club omasses and I emphasize when the club goes to a higher league. There are big problems because money is needed for semi-professionalism, and that money is then made up of membership fees that are not shown as club incomes, it comes from a variety of public enterprises, it's moved by a variety of donations that are nowhere, and unfortunately it's divided into cash and it's hard to catch. Unfortunately that's common, but that's what's ruining our sport, that's what's destroying our youth because kids who don't have can't play sports in that club anymore. So far, sports inspectors and audits have rarely found faults, even among the largest sports clubs and associations that have been exposed to the Croatian public and that we all see, hear and read about eskiculating legislation. It is particularly depressing when the inspection finds no irregularities in the financing of semi-professionalism, except that the funds paid to players and coaches in cash cannot be seen and found inspection control. There would be a lot of irregularities if more inspections were to be linked and coordinated, which would be targetedly coordinated and fully controlled, because then it would be easy to detect the disproportionateness of the assets of players and trainers and quickly to obtain accurate data, it would be known where that money came from. I believe that this aspect of the action of the inspection will at least be considered in order to introduce order and to finance sports associations and clubs, as well as that new sports laws will systematically address problems in sport, uniquely in the territory of our entire Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42656	The following are individual debates. First is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42657	My colleagues and colleagues, the sport inspection in this second reading is and again I will mention that the very important statistical indicator that you have published by my colleague Selak Rasdić and I have said on behalf of the club that in fact in 2019 compared to 2020 has essentially been made much more inspectional findings, so that the problems here are visible, that the pretumbations and playthings of the Government by transferring the state administration's office to the county led to chaos and minor effects and problems within the inspection, sports inspections. Of course, the illegality of the work of sports associations is very important because what we are recognizable for is seen in the case of Mamić in the Croatian Football Federation. Corruption, crime, it's not good, message, and sport basically represents us in the world. We are perhaps the biggest brand of Croatia, the secretary of state is essentially a sport. He and that's a fact, and that's what we're all going to agree on unanimously, live, right, center that sport is what can make us look. So the work of the inspection is very important, that the reduction of this corrupt shop within the system is so much so, here is in football that the president of one football club was directly connected to the President of the Supreme Court, Djur Sessus without whom the really most important in that judiciary is unfortunately the bag and when the sport connects exclusively with the bag and then there's the problem. And that's this negative image that doesn't trip to Croatian sports, mostly to younger generations because sport means a lot. Especially when we talk about sports in rural areas, i.e. the border areas up to 2/3 of Croatia where sport is the most important and for the development of every child from kindergarten to, to this preschool age, to this, to study, in these areas we pay attention because the one that passes through the fingers, and the inspections cannot detect it because it means empowering inspections, inspection results to be fenced from these bandits in sport. And you negative this negativity that terribly destroys sport, soul, and not only sport, but we also have fan groups that identify, not just big groups like Bed Blue Boys and Dol Torcid, Armada no matter who we have smaller groups. Here I am in my town I have said 2 significant clubs, although we also have alkara, basketball club, we are the city of basketball, we have a football club, we have an old club, we have football champions, recently Croatia were, they won the cup. So we in smaller backgrounds identify ourselves with our athletes, our clubs, as at national level, of course, most of the younger ones are. So that the negativity that the inspection can stop we're investing in that part that these illegalities in sports clubs, associations don't happen, and it's especially important because when we talk about younger people then we have to talk about young people in sports that sport is important to health and the elderly, that they will invest less in health not only because of professional sport but also because of health, amateur sport. So it's a bad message if we devast the inspection. She's devastated by the government's bad moves, letting these structures go unnecessarily, or as we allegedly said in the reforms. Although the reform shift of the state administration's office to the county, under county authority, has essentially been achieved. That's where we lost a lot of people inside the inspection, but as far as kids are concerned, that's what I was gonna say. In many areas local self-government doesn't have enough money to finance sports clubs. So the burden falls, that parents pay in these weaker property areas where children can't pay. So once again, attention is very important when this corrupt octopus because it's millions of euros, that it's been paid to judges, paid for this, and when you look at these kids who don't have the opportunity to play sports because their parents can't give 100 or 150 kuna. So these inspections would mean in this direction if they stopped the flow of money illegally, it would be necessary to target children mainly in undeveloped areas where they do not have the same ability to deal with sports as in the larger cities of Zagreb or the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42658	We have a replica, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42659	Dear colleague Bulj, we are indeed in the midst of one of the biggest affairs in the Croatian judiciary. We're dealing with sports and justice right now. At the same time, we are witnessing a reduction in the functioning of the sport inspection, but I must also admit, in accordance with the debate on this law in the first reading, and also now that the amendments and additions of the law have been conducted in the assembly and the reduction of the interest of parliamentary representatives for the work of sports inspection. Perhaps if we had been more careful about the reports earlier, and then the regulations, especially those of the law regarding the work of the sports inspection today, we wouldn't have had this affair and this mess in the judiciary that we have to clean up right now. What to do in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42660	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42661	Thank you very much. My colleagues Selak Rasudiæ you showed in your first reading how a parliamentary representative or representative can change things. In this report that was in the first reading, we didn't have any representation at all, the statistical indicator, what was it, what was the inspection doing, and to see what was going on, the pay problems, the departures, which are the reasons for leaving and the basis of these statistics can be made some kind of policy and some kind of decision that can essentially stop the devastation of the sports inspection. Sports inspection is necessary and therefore I believe that your work and your presentation which you, your work and your request that this State Secretary, who has accepted your request to show some indicators on which we can discuss each and every one of you from our point of view, but the fact is that the debate, the constructive debate of the sea, brings to a certain ad let's say a solution to well-being, and you have shown it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42662	Next individual debate Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42663	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Dear Proposer, I really thank you for delivering the report, which was our main observation last time because the debate on the amendments and additions of this law was one of me, who was only at the beginning of this delegation, the dark moments in the assembly. Why? Because we couldn't find a sports inspection report anywhere. I also asked for the Central State Sport Office, and I didn't get it. We cannot discuss how to change the law without knowing what was happening on the ground and what changes were needed. In this sense, what is often done to the public and perhaps, perhaps, I will be careful, is not always the case, and that is that we often speak very often of this speaker in vain without real knowledge of the matter to which we should dispose. Now we have received a report from you, and it puts me in an uninvited position because on the one hand I am grateful that we have had the opportunity to hear a report on the basis of which we can change the law, on the other hand I must admit that this is the shortest report on the work of any inspection I have ever seen. This raises the question of what kind of report we need, and what is it for? I believe that we need not only a report showing the situation on the ground or the mere figures of these two Excel tables that you delivered to us for 2019 and 2020. We need concrete indicators on the basis of which we can see what you're missing because there's no report here for us to write history books about what happened, but it's here to change things better in the future. We are here because of you, you must provide us with a detailed report that we can make legal changes that will improve your work. Based on this report, something like this is very difficult. However, these figures show some unusual things that I would like to hear an explanation for, which we have, since only two Excel tables are not given. For example, we can detect a large disproportionate number of inspections carried out in certain counties, which is not related to their size. For example, in the City of Zagreb you had 237 inspections performed. It is kind of to expect given the size of Zagreb. But in Osijek-Baranja County, you had 118 of them, and in Split-Dalmatia County, only 14 inspection controls. Also in Sibenik-Knin County, as many as 139 irregularities have been identified. I will mention that 54 irregularities have been identified in the City of Zagreb. Such figures give us many different questions, do the inspectors, whose number is greatly reduced and this is the most important thing that has already been said and which we learn from these reports, equally well their work in all counties or in some like Split-Dalmatia, here I am talking about a report for 2019, do not work almost at all? Why in Sibenik-Knin County and on the basis of which we have so many irregularities, what is happening there? If we look at the figures about the complaints made, adopted, rejected and rejected complaints, nothing, zero, 139 identified irregularities, further actions almost nothing, 50 solutions issued, and therefore 14 applications per article. 17. The law on sports inspection, which is the article that explains that you can see other irregularities, so inform that service that is responsible for correcting them, therefore not for the sport inspection itself. Thus, a sports inspection in his conduct reveals many other things. It would be very useful to know which things. Jobs of sports inspection according to art. 9. refers to technical, health conditions, the conditions of the person performing the activity in sport, to its health and doping skills, to the use of illicit funds. A sports inspection was once announced as a sporting HORSE, of which all these announcements left only one or two Excel tables.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42664	The first replica of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42665	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasdic. I'd say once again that your first reading caused your debate. a reaction accepted by the secretary and i.e. It also gave us statistical indicators that, as you said, are what they are, but at least the basis of these statistical indicators as they are, they should have been more extensive, we can come to certain conclusions that happen with sports inspection, of course ultimately with the most significant ones, which is sport, and that sport is important from health to not knowing the recognizability of people who socialize, especially our young people who have to deal with sports in childhood. I would ask you a link between sports and perjury in Croatia, I will mention Djuru Sesu where Mamic says he couldn't come without a bag to him, how much does it affect the negativity of the sport that is Croatian brand, we are proud of our athletes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42666	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42667	The first link between sports and the judiciary is right here. And that's why it's important that we get reports that show us what's going on on the ground and what's missing from a sports inspection that's more than a few of the numbers you've just delivered to us, although I am grateful that we can create laws on which you can act so that we can fight for it and point to the fact that the number of sports inspectors has fallen dramatically, as well as the number of inspections carried out when we look at it in 2019. Without realizing the fact that we are directed at each other, as much as we can help you, and as much as you can help us by informing us what is going on on in the field, we will continue the trend of corruption affairs, sports affairs and affairs in which both sports and the judiciary are involved as it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42668	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42669	Honorable MPs. We have already talked here several times about the various reports, the reports, and we have actually found that almost no report coming before the Parliament in the procedure is complete. In fact, most of the institutions that bring us reports bring us reports because of the report, not because of the report or the data that should be in that report. From each report, we should learn something, and not only do we have numerical data inside, we should mention descriptions. Here's the numerical data without a description of the phenomenon that explains what happened when it happened, which is why it doesn't mean anything to us. Based on the data that we have numerical and descriptions of these data, we can learn something and we can react in both the new law and some additional regulations to correct it. So please explain to me at all how you got that report and what did you actually get?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42670	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42671	I agree here's why I've singled out one piece of information now because we don't have time to read everyone, why do we have 139 irregularities in Sibenik-Knin County, is that an exception or a rule? I will tell the City of Zagreb compared to Sibenik-Knin County almost three times less. What's going on in the field? What kind of irregularities? I don't want us to be ficus here, saying the amendments, pretending that we understand the state of things, and no one, responsibly argues, can talk seriously about this law or try to change it if they don't know a detailed report of the sports inspection on what's going on on on the ground. Everything else that happens behind this pay phone, and as far as legal changes and sports are concerned, it's a hoax. The Parliament must not be reduced to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42672	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42673	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic. You've already opened one topic, and that's how many of us are in this law? This law was me thinking a month ago in this assembly and we were sort of having the same debate and the same way we discussed it, but that's just the way it is. There are laws that are so not to use a more difficult word, but interesting, and there are laws that go under the radar anyway, unfortunately this is one of those laws. But I'm absolutely sure, and that's when you decide to make a change and supplement the law then you need to know why you're doing it. To know why you're working, analyze the problem you have and give a solution to that problem. This law that we have before us analyzed the problem of unequal solutions that these 16 inspectors gave before 21 gave and that is the reason. There was no step further, and in order to take a step further clearly we must amend the Law on Sports or the new Sport Act will be the basis for a step further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42674	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42675	I agree, that is exactly how much we depend on each other and on each other's laws, but all of us together form a excessive rule of law. In fact, yes, everyone spent this morning on the issue of Croats outside of Croatia, I doubt it's as much as they care about the problem itself, as it is about trying to sew in some future votes. This topic is very important and very interesting, I'm not saying it as a floscule, but I'm saying it because of the fact that, for example, sports inspection determines according to art. And what's the situation on the doping field? Doping is a first-class sports and health issue that also speaks about modern medicine, but also about our technical future, it's something I have personal scientific interests to do with. We don't know what the doping situation in Croatia is, I believe it would be all of a concern, but nobody even knows it's a sports inspection or has asked that question so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42676	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. She's gone, so she loses her right. Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42677	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected State Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. We have here and already seen, so the difference between the first and second reading is almost nothing except that we have received some reports in substance, the reason why the Law on Sports Inspection is changed is because it has been found that different administrative matters are decided by individual inspectors and, when recognised, a uniform procedure has been recognised and so is a technical law, but this opens up a lot more problems. It opens up one problem that we all need to be aware of together. So there are 16 sports inspectors in Croatia, and we have 20 counties and the City of Zagreb that has the status of the county, so 21 bodies. And there will be fewer in the future because we, sports inspectors, expect that, apart from the Law on Sports, to know both the ZUP and all the other laws, we expect them to be prepared and related to the Law on Associations and other things and to act on the ground. For relatively small money in the state administration. We'll only have fewer, we won't have any more. Now the topic that I have to open and about which we should really take care of how to ensure that when we get a quality fit of quality that stays. That sport inspection problem will be a problem everywhere else. You will find a frame that is inadequate and not adequately educated and how you expect them to follow closely the processes that are in sport, points to them and takes care of all that. That won't be possible, so we like it down the river, so when something happens. If we have the days of 16 inspectors you won't be able to have them in a year, you can have them 16 or less, or you'll get someone who's going to be the word I'm very, very hard to use, but it's already with us that he just gets caught, squats and doesn't do anything, which is not anyone's interest. The first is the interest of sports to have a quality sports inspection, it's the first interest of sport. When I spoke on behalf of the club, then I wanted to say a few words and the relationship of the crown and the sport. Corona, as she has shown in all other things, has shown problems in sports as well. The result of the crown when it comes to sports was that it was really cleaned up as much as it was possible to clean up the coach's work because for years the coaches were either unemployed or doing some fictitious contract and everything else. All those coaches who were in that status after the crown could not receive the appropriate compensation that the state at one point recognized and regulated in a truly satisfactory way. When someone does something good, I'm able to say it. So everyone realized that these are situations that must be regulated maximumly. Corona has opened another problem, the problem in general is that we have too few children involved in sports, the problem of amateur sports which during the time, so it has been almost a year now not engaged, but also the problem of crowns and top-notch sports. So I've already said it a few times from this pay phone, and I'm going to do it a few more times. Unfortunately, I'd rather not say it again. The Tokyo Olympics will take place, the Tokyo Olympics on July 23rd. All those who are going to the Olympics have already given up all sorts of pre-Olympic tournaments in different sports, and in different ways because they simply don't want too many athletes from different sides of the world to come, be together for a time, possibly share some virus, and then take the virus to different parts of the world. All right, so the decision on the cleavage, I asked the minister, I asked Minister Beros when he was here, and now I've asked the Secretary of State of State, I get the same answer every time. It will be considered, will be seen, July 23rd is the first day of the Olympics, the Olympics depending on what sport they are dealing with earlier, they are going with the coach, they are also going to a certain port. We can't let a sportsman go to Tokyo and get a crown there. or bring it in so it doesn't split because it's like it's out of a window, now open a window and a couple million kunas as much as it's invested in that athlete throw out the window. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42678	The first replica, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42679	My colleague Mrak Taritaš will join me with another sport concern about what will happen with the European football championship, which will be with the World Cup in football in view of this shift in deadlines. I believe that this is what passive sports fans are very interested in considering this crisis. But you've opened up an important issue regarding the outflows. I also remember that in the report of the Competition Protection Agency that we recently discussed, they also mention the problem of inability to retain quality staff. We also see here that the number of inspectors has been reduced, the reduction in the number of surveillance depends on how justified and alerted I was in the situation that affected us all, which is this crown and the inability to conduct surveillance at all. But the real question is, of course, why don't we know, it should be seen in the report, how to keep the personnel, where the problem, if they don't stay the best, don't stay the capable, they'll just stay Like that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42680	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42681	Thank you very much for asking. I didn't open that problem by accident. I opened up on purpose, and I opened up with this problem, and I really met firsthand. So you take some sort of system and you take an intern, and this intern I'm going to tell you about technical education, must have completed an Architectural-building or geodetic college that doesn't belong to, belongs to colleges that require certain technical knowledge, about how easy or difficult it really is, I won't really talk about it. He's been working for a year, so he's good. After that, receive him into a permanent working relationship because someone is good. As soon as he reaches a certain level, he tries to go somewhere else, and when you're in a state administration system, you don't have any tools to stimulate him to stay. One of the tools might be to go to education somewhere else, so someone would stay, so not all the tools are big wages, but also something else, and you don't have that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42682	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42683	Your Honor, I didn't purposely open the question of the number of sports inspectors because I don't know what they're going to write in the new Sport Act. It may be foreseen that these new laws will define different procedures, maybe they are different controls, maybe someone else will exercise control before the inspector, so I didn't want to open it, but I think it remains a big problem and not just the number of inspectors, but also their qualifications. In fact, sports activity is not easy and people who are involved in sports, people who have been in sports alliances, either municipal, city, county, know how much work there is, how complex the procedures are and what needs to be controlled. If a person who has not been in sports or who has little experience in sports comes to the post of inspectors, it will be difficult to fit into these jobs and will be difficult to control clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42685	Thank you very much. So, I find these things relatively simple. If the inspector's coming somewhere to watch something, he needs to know more than he's watching. He should know, among other things, the answers to certain questions that this one raises in his supervision. So he comes to the control of an alliance and this alliance if responsible, I always go from the position of not those examples when someone is worse or anything, but someone who is responsible and consciously doing his job will say look I've had such and such problems from the statutes, and beyond because these statutes are a problem and the inspector should give an answer to such questions or at least should point out if he doesn't know. You've got one very simple problem that has now proven itself. All our alliances or mains have to work and for the Olympics, there was no Olympics, but there was also a theme of the crown, there is not one statute that defined how elections are done during the impossible physical performance, so you have a number of things, and that's all the inspector should know, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42686	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42687	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. The JLS shall establish public needs in sport and provide financial resources from their budgets to achieve them. Some of the public needs in sport for which the funds are provided from the JLS budget are the promotion and promotion of sport, the implementation of sports activities, children, youth and students, the activities of sports associations, sports communities and alliances, planning, construction, maintenance and use of sports buildings etc., etc. These are all obligations defined in the Sport Act in Art. 74th and 76th. In what way these obligations are carried out, we heard just before from a respected fellow cellmate, negative specimens, negative examples of the case in Sisak. And I can tell you how this works on the example of my city, the city of Makarska. So in Makarska, it operates from 30 to 35 sports associations, they are organized into the roof community of sports associations of the city of Makarska, and the community addresses the city on behalf of all of them with a request for funding the work of all sports associations. The city of Makarska from the budget sets out for the work of the community sports associations a million-dollar amount, provides additional and financing to the sports club with special importance of the Croatian Workers' Club, the Football Club "dragon" additional funds. The city is particularly funding coaches in sports associations. The city again grants additional amounts to sports associations to organise sports events through the tender. And finally, the city sports center all its playgrounds, battlefields, pools, halls, gyms and terrains gives free use to all sports associations members of the community of sports associations. Investment in sports is good, and we can never say that too much has been invested in sports because it's worth a lot of money to us. Investment in sport, especially investment in younger age groups of athletes gives the city hope that in the future they will have a healthy population that has learned to work hard to achieve good results, and in the present time this investment gives us that we can be proud of the results of our sports teams. However, we must not forget either the transparent and legal spending of budgets. Here's an example, the city provides budgets in the community of sports associations, and it continues to allocate these funds to sports associations. In representative and executive bodies in the community, the city has no and cannot have its representatives. Information on the allocations and how the spent city is obtained from the community through half-yearly and annual reports means after execution without being able to participate in the allocation. And I think that's good, at least it's a practice in our city, and it's normal because if the city participated in a direct allocation to sports associations, then they'd tell us that politics interferes, interferes in sports, and that the funds are allocated to political lines. However, what about when the city receives applications from sports associations that the executive body of the community has been chosen in an illegal manner and that the budgets have been allocated by method by grandmother and uncle, rather than by real needs? Isn't the city then and then responsible for the transparent and legal spending of budgets? But what opportunities and instruments does the city have to verify the truthfulness of these reports and react if they are correct? Are we gonna wait for a half-yearly report and then discuss it, or are we gonna do something about it right now? Any responsible JLS leader in this case is obliged to call for a sports inspection as soon as possible. It's a sports inspection that can check all the applications and determine if there are irregularities. The sport inspection in order to be effective should respond as soon as possible to JLS applications and issue a solution as soon as possible as possible, as any delay would extend the period of illegal and non-transparent spending of budgetary resources. The town of Makarska is one of the few cities in Croatia that has not reduced budget allocations for sport due to the Covid-19 crisis. I think we've sent a clear message about how much we care about sports and healthy lifestyles. However, as much as we care about transparency and legality of budget spending. I therefore welcome the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports Inspection because it is precise, harmonizes and speeds up the work of a sports inspection which I sincerely hope will have less to do in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42688	We have two replicas, the first one is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42689	Comrade Brkan, you have raised an interesting question about the relationship between local self-government units and supervisory authorities. I believe that supervisory authorities should not do business instead of units of local self-government but only if units of local self-government do not act on other anonymous applications, citizens' applications, etc. So I agree that the local self-government unit should react first. Let's say, when we followed what the Agency for the Protection of Competition in Sibenik, in the case of septic caves, we could see that it reacted while at the same time violating the rules of competition of a company with equal prices applied to a city that did nothing. In that sense, my question is do you have any knowledge, or have you acted in such cases as sports before the sport inspection itself took place?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42690	I thank you for asking. Well, basically, I'm giving you a concrete example. We had applications from other sports associations to the legality of the Community of Sports Associations. We called a sports inspection, there was little, whether they were relevant, not relevant. In any case, after some period they responded, made insights, and fortunately, thank God, it was found that there were no irregularities. So, as far as I'm concerned, I welcome the work of a sports inspection, I wish there were more, I wish they were more efficient, but simply local self-government units at some point have no instruments so we can act at the right time. It would stay, it would be all post-festum sometime later, sometimes late.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42691	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42692	Your Honor, you're also the mayor of a city, and I believe you know everything that's going on in your city, a little bit of a misstatement, you said you were actually getting information from the Sports Federation that the funds were spent. In fact, you get information from the Sports Federation about how these funds have been shared, and since they've spent it, we should get it from clubs, and that data is very often and very hard to get and what you said, it's hard to determine, it's hard to control it, we don't actually have a real mechanism, since sports inspectors can only do it in one part, and the other part needs to do audits and coordinate sports inspectors, audits and possibly even a tax administration or some other inspection service, it's very difficult and difficult to get real data on how money is spent in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42693	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42694	Thank you, Your Honor, for your good observation. In fact, what we have done in our city is already a long-standing practice, that our Department of Social Activities, which, among other things, is asking the Sports Associations Community to submit its report to the City Council, and in this report to be exactly the report of clubs to which, for the spending of funds. So we get one united report. Sometimes we're satisfied with him, sometimes we're not, but somehow we've introduced this practice that this report comes to the city council and I do, but still, I believe that the revision is also an important factor in sports inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42695	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42696	Dear Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'd just like to say a few more things that I haven't been able to say in my debate, namely, I've prepared a little bit differently for the debate on behalf of the club, so let me finish it now. In fact, a lot of questions have been raised through this debate and through the debate in the first reading, and I think that's good, I think it's good for the gentlemen to hear what the problems are, so they hear what problems we're seeing. Maybe we'd have more observations and more suggestions if we had a detailed inspection report that took place over a few years, to see the phenomenon, the correct occurrence, where it happens, what happens, how it happens, during which periods it happens, maybe we could help more. I hope that you will accept it as a positive criticism and that you will actually put it in some regulation, perhaps some sublegal act that will help us to do better later. For all of us here who, here, are not many of us, but believe me, it is particularly important to me that the sport in Croatia works well, that clubs work well, that I spent my whole life playing sports while I could, I went from bigger again to smaller ones, so as it usually goes, you get to the domino cubes, but it's that I still have two kids who do sports amateurs, but they're in clubs and I'm interested in these clubs doing well and quality. - Mrs. Crescent. In her presentation, Taritate mentioned the problems of children who are not engaged in sports, the problems of children who do not move enough, then we have health problems, then we spend more money in health. Maybe it's better if we stop through sports and keep our children healthy and have healthier generations. We heard, we heard a few more remarks about the qualifications of inspectors or their additional knowledge. Here, I've been through my actions, I've been a secretary in one club for a long time, I think it would be very good for the inspectors to work in the sports alliance, whether city, municipal or county, these are the knowledge that gold is valuable, and they can really help a lot and clubs to come to as inspectors or to pass some course that will allow them to conduct normal and control and to be as advisers to correct certain mistakes that may not even be stated in the record, but to correct themselves because of being all by law and in accordance with legal regulations. The grant of funds, we were just discussing it through our Evo replica, and I'm glad my colleague agreed to the finding that we all have almost the same problems, I'm a member of the city council, and I don't have a problem with that money because I don't see that money. I know that the Sports Union gives money according to certain criteria, how fair these criteria are, that's another pair of shoes. We have clubs that compete in the higher league, but they get less money because they have fewer children. If you place the number of kids in the club, then you'll probably have sports like football, handballs, basketball get the most money, and the question is whether it's really money spent for the right purposes, especially whether it's spent on children and their progress in sports. I already mentioned that in my discussion. Here I call upon the gentlemen to consider a little bit the control of the funds, given that we are all together to find that these are the funds that the clubs and the Sports Alliance provide local self-government and regional administrations and that there is a part of the funds that "donate" public enterprises, so that it would be convenient to really know how to spend that money, whether it is spent for the right purposes and especially to control semi-professionalism, so I call for it to try, to somehow coordinate the work of more inspections that would actually go out to clubs together and together control more aspects of the club's business, and then we would come to some quality conclusions and I think we would have a better use of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42697	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42698	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Assembly, i.e. my fellow Members Murganić, Brkan, Pavić and Tomašević, I welcome you all. So this conversation, or debate on sports inspection in the first and second readings, raised two important issues of principle. The first question is, can we even seriously change the law without having previously seen a report on the work of the body around which we want to change the law? And the second question after we received this report, perhaps even more importantly, what kind of report do we need? In that sense, I don't think that guilt is exclusively at the Central State Sport Office that delivered us this report, but it's the fault of all of us who haven't established clear protocols on what the report should look like. In fact, this numerical report raises a number of questions. We would be much more useful to have a report detailing the real situation on the ground, especially in that section of the irregularities that the sports inspection finds. How many health irregularities is there, how many technical irregularities, how many people who have no IDs or are not allowed to do that work in different sports facilities or clubs? All of this is a very important issue that would allow us to improve the work of sports inspection, but we also see where some human and even more children's rights are being violated. I received a few notes from the applicants after I have presented the figures on the basis of this data that they have provided us on the reduction of the inspection controls carried out, part of it refers to the situation with the crown that affected all areas of life, but it is difficult to talk about and normally that subsequent clarifications are needed when we have not received a report that will guide us in the way we should read the numbers or the parallel report before the crown and after the crown that we can see in the extreme line that she has left behind and in the area of sports inspection because we know that we will only feel the consequences of what our wear with the crown around sports, mainly sports and those young ones, and then the problems with the obesity in which we unfortunately in Europe are preceding. When I asked why the numbers were so large in some smaller counties than the larger ones, whether it was about the zeal of conduct or something else, I was responsible for acting on a warrant. We talked about unfair trade practices, about extending the power of inspection so that they can act independently so that more on the ground and the Competition Protection Agency could see unfair practices. The same thing we can legally do for a sports inspection. We have the opportunity and the privilege of changing the powers of the sports inspection, but the sports inspection must ask us to do so. The sports inspection used to appear pompously, there was talk of Janica who would deal with the HNS, there was talk of monitoring the HNS, there was also talk about the choice of Shuker, suddenly the sports inspection was important in the media as well. The sports jump, he was fighting like that, and then all the talk went silent. Now no one's talking about sports inspection anymore, and neither are we Assembly representatives here. The number of sports inspectors is getting smaller. We're in a situation where we can change that. Therefore, I would like to conclude this debate by agreeing together how to make a quality report and asking the State Sport Office to provide us with all the problems it faces, mainly some legal obstacles that prevent them from doing more detailed and poorer things so that we can really, first see what the situation is on the ground, and then change it by doing away with unfair sports practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-25-0.u42699	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the Secretary of State for your cooperation. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Parliament and Council Regulation on 20 June 2019 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and amending the EC Regulation and repealing the EU Regulation. 108/2013, second reading, P.Z. No. 63. Have a good night. MEETING Interrupted at 18:10 p.m.
