ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u42803	So, I said, we're not numerous, but we've been chosen, and I'm the only one who's sorry that there's no fellow Pupovec because I'm going to do something similar to what I did last time. In fact, I was prepared to speak one topic and at the last minute came a proposal from the Homeland Movement Club to take another. So, I wanted to talk today about the crimes of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro, of the Montenegrin state, of the Montenegrin nation, of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church and ask us to call for consultations of our Europarliamentaries to tell them what is going on there so that they do so in the semi-scription, as regards the events in this part of Europe, the semi-written Europe, and to warn them that they are supporting our Montenegrins and I will certainly do so next time, but I am asked to comment on the local elections or that part of the election that is behind us. I also accepted because these local elections are much more important than parliamentary elections, according to my assessment. And the election race is usually an interesting competition discipline, much more unsportsport than sports, but it has something coubertinian in it, it's that famous Olympic game restorer or founder of modern Olympic games, which is known for its motto "It's important to participate, it's not important to win and all participants are winners". That is what Croatian politicians very much adhere to, and that is what journalists have accepted. Whoever shows up in the election, they're all in their own way and for themselves... However, I will try objectively to talk about the winners and defeated in these elections, with great pleasure and I am very pleased that amongst the serious winners or even at the head of the Homeland Movement that I belong to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will without pleasure and without luck mention that very well, a good result has reached the platform We can! I'll say two later and I'm not happy about it. Also, I don't mind, though, I'm glad to make the Bridge. And as for the defeated, the best ones who can't win are the best ones who say what their faces are and how they're going through the election. The biggest defeated and biggest loser of the election is the SDP. HDZ knows how it went, but one part of those elections is very important, in Zagreb, in local elections, in the Zagreb elections, it is Wimbledon for you. In the finals of Wimbledon, neither SDP nor HDZ plays. So now I'm going to give a warning to my HDZ colleagues that it wasn't the mean one that was worth the state to HDZ just as much as it is. I do not ask, there is no dear one, I do not ask Maria Kapulica or Andrej Plenkovic to vote for the Homeland Movement but let the Croats who respect traditional values vote. He doesn't scare us, neither does the writing of the Index, the portal, the son said to me the other day, "Dude, here's the saying that Skoro doesn't stand a chance with Tomasevic." And I say, Andro, the same answers as the portal in the 1990s said that Croatia has no chance with Serbia and Yugoslavia, so what happened happened. Unfortunately, I won't be able to say what I wanted about the platform We can," I have to look back at the president of my party and us. Miroslav Škoro is completely calm waiting for the finals. He feels victorious because he already is, however, and we do not sleep, but are ready for a fierce fight like the Hos's in '91. A year. From the processing of all the places where they could be potential candidates, but to God and to the control of election boxes. We'll show how the campaign is run and we'll show if we don't win the election, how congratulating to whoever won. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u42889	We are now going to the 5th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU will speak to the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u42890	Dear pensioners and pensioners. I've been guilty for many years of not working to unify the pensioners and you're still blaming me as the only representative of the retired in HS for a lot of the injustices that have been committed to you by the constant amendments to your pension law. It's time to stop at the ball. It's not for a man to unite what people's personal interests have divided, and please stop calling on the Messiah because he won't come. With this knowledge, I have withdrawn myself from disturbing those who have said that the unification of pensioners is a matter of moment and, well, six months away from that, but there is no movement, and I'm afraid it will never be because the interests of the citizens of 50 to 100 years are very different, and we're all definitely prisoners of the past, our professions, habits, life experiences and everyone's hard to admit that someone else is right because someone else knows something and consults with those who know. To seek and swear to the well-being of the pensioners and to do so professionally, professionally and without any remainder, is not the same. Let's say, Covid's supplement. I asked him from this pay phone in order to help the poorest of the pensioners more significantly before they were paid. Any good intentions and idea are precisely those who swear to the interests of the pensioners, just those who should support, corrupt and interfere with something they have no idea about. It's like I'd push myself to operate on a hip. Nonsens. That's why these processes have tails. That is why people suffer, and they are surprised and do not call on them again; they call not on them, but on the intercessor. Don't those who work up to 4 o'clock, pensioners and total have fewer incomes than 4 thousand kuna, have the right to a Covid supplement? Are those who receive 2,000 kuna pensions from BiH, and they had to leave everything there, and the citizens are the Republic of Croatia, do not deserve a Covid supplement? Can't the exchange of information with foreign insurance companies get information about the level of income from abroad, but citizens have to line up? And all of these citizens tolerate and still believe in promises and vote for those who hurt the pensioners and buy their votes for change. Now only that every municipality or city has not begun to build a retirement home and remember, promise will again be Christmas, and the realization of the post-election will again be many abandoned and hungry mouths. The biggest reformers did not say that we have too many municipalities and cities, the most dissatisfied with the state in the country again stayed at home, which means they enjoy their discontent, that they are masochists and that they are the most guilty of having the condition that we have. Everywhere the passions got excited, where the culture of dissatisfaction exploded, and where there was greater turnout, the changes happened. There's been a change of options and a change of generations. The little turnout only corresponds to those who are in power and want to be masters of people, space and time, which is human absurd and insane and know that they are not above anything. I know you'd prefer to be told about this by a new young person, not an outcast politician who's been doing this for 18 years, but he's never let you down, no matter what you think. Evidence of this was also the number that I won in the local elections for the county assembly on the HSU-HSLS-HNS list in Istria. 3 987 votes are not easy to win as citizens' faith and trust, even if it is 4.99%. If you think it's easy, try it. I thank my constituents in Istria for their trust, which I will return to them in a way that I will continue to be their voice in the Parliament and talk about [[Intruder: Thank you.]] solutions to their problems and represent them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u42891	Thank you. Thank you. And we are going to the last reported debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will speak to respected counterparts Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u42995	Dear MPs and MPs, at the beginning of this speech, I would like to congratulate all the new progressive forces on the fact that, by entering the second round of local elections, they have threatened the survival of the skeletal masquerading structures of the existing government. Despite the low turnout, the results show a awakening awareness among our citizens that the hair can and must be changed. In itself, that's good news. The news that needs to be celebrated shows that there is hope that we will succeed in creating a country that all of our citizens deserve. Never in history has any government robbed so much, so much poverty, so much insolent Croatia as these HDZs have. Never in the history of the modern state has a single prime minister been so conceited, so arrogant, so arrogant towards the general public, according to the media, according to the opposition, according to this home, according to the Croatian Parliament, such as Andrej Plenkovic. I am therefore particularly pleased that this demonstration of HDZ and all the injustices generated by HDZ in the country began right during its term of office. But for the right change to change the way Croatia really needs it, it is not enough for locals to establish these corrupt authorities to take over some new forces. The Croatian Assembly is responsible for the radical changes. That is why I call on all opposition forces to open themselves to dialogue to finally start talking about what Croatia should be, what its structure should be. Three years ahead of us are to reform electoral legislation, to make electoral units so that they are constitutional, just that each vote is equally valid. It would take us three years to figure out what kind of territorial reconstruction we're going to make to reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities until the next local elections. Three years should be enough for us to reform the Croatian judiciary, not to bring the changes in the judiciary down to a battle between two hills whose person will be elected to the main function of the judiciary, but to strengthen the judiciary within strengthening internal control and verification mechanisms, coffee today does not actually exist except as a mere farce at the formality level. It is necessary to strengthen the system of checking the property cards of judges and state lawyers, to strengthen the system of ethical responsibility and disciplinary responsibility of judges and state lawyers, and to strengthen preventive mechanisms. The famous transparency of certain cities and municipalities is really just a small start, only one step in a good direction but far from the transparency of the public and the media really deserve what they need. Let's open up changes to the law in the direction of the state of affairs and at regional and local level in a way that in this House we will prescribe what everything on the web pages of certain state bodies can and must be published, it is much more than what even in the most advanced units of local self-government we now have. Let's form registers of public property, property in particular, open up data on who uses individual properties, who are given to use mostly for almost small or no money. Let us open a reform of our economic goals, reduce parafiscal burdens, simplify procedures, make life easier for all our residents and all our entrepreneurs only then will the next local elections result from these elections be such that Croatia will finally move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u42996	This was today all about free speech or making a stand, Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. There aren't many of us, but here we are in the name of those of us who are here I'd like to congratulate everyone who won the first round, wish them a lot of success in further work. Those who have entered the second round, I wish them much happiness and a good fight, and those who have failed them also congratulations on participating. We'll continue to work at HS, wait until 1.6, to see now and the new instructions from headquarters, and then maybe we'll go with a number of MPs in the assembly, but here's another request in two weeks, and then we'll see how we'll proceed. We will continue as always on Wednesdays, on the first day of the week to present the position of club representatives and independent representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43070	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am warmly welcoming you all. In the next few minutes I will try to explain to you what the concept of democracy means in the Croatian way. In the last 15 months, especially the ruling sentences were that the nation's health was first in all, especially the Minister of Health, William Beros, which is also normal since we are at the time of the pandemic's crown. And in the last 15 months, the National Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia has made hundreds of decisions that it has passed on to the local levels that we local headquarters leaders were supposed to implement. It is primarily about restrictive measures of gathering, occasional ban on the work of catering facilities, casinos, cinemas, theatres, one time and schools and kindergartens. I personally agreed with some of these measures, some of which I considered contradictory, but all these measures were designed to prevent further spread of the pandemic corona. And all that time, the nation's health was in first place, until May 16th, that day the crown disappeared in the Republic of Croatia. On 16 May, by decision of the National Staff and Minister Bozinovic, all those Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia who have the right to vote could have freely entered the Republic without a PCR test, without confirming whether they were over the crown or not in order to allow them to vote. The day was only important for voters, primarily from the Republic of Serbia, to be supported by voters to support the largest coalition partner in the ruling SDSS, it is important that those voters who have not lived in the Republic of Serbia for 20 years bring a breakthrough in the national mixed environments. For example, we just had 10% more turnout in Vukovar than in the last four election cycles thanks to these voters. That day the health of the nation no longer mattered, it didn't matter what the domestic population was at risk, it didn't matter that there was a great possibility of a new crown pandemic, primarily in these border environments, of national mixed up where voters from neighbouring countries came. And we'll know more about it in the next few days or after the second round of elections. And speaking of these local elections, they best showed how much Croatia needs reform of local self-government. In fact, already on May 4, when the lists were submitted, we all knew that in 55 municipalities and cities we already had a winner, not because we were psychic, but because in these municipalities, unfortunately, we had only one candidate in the cities, only one candidate. And that's democracy in your Croatian way. And nobody says there's no quality people here, there's got to be, but there's an even bigger problem about small environments where you don't have enough people who want to deal with politics. You have environments where people are literally afraid to run against a captain who's ruled for 20 years by one municipality. An even better example of democracy in the Croatian way is the need to reform the local self-government is that we got a chief with 200, 150 and a record player with 104 votes won. It's not that person's fault, it's our entire system. With 104 votes you become the head of the municipality, you have a municipal council of seven members, you have a head of a single management department, you have a secretary, you have a communal director, now you tell me if this municipality is economically self-sustainable? It's not. This system cannot withstand much wealthier states than Croatia, and this is the best example that it is high time for all those municipalities that are not economically self-sustainable to end and to attach them to larger and stronger environments, that the municipality does not serve the purpose of the mayor himself but serves the purpose of the community living in that area so that the whole state develops equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43157	Let's move on now. Dear colleague Andreja Maric on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43158	Thank you, well-respected president of the assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about two more examples of inequality recommendations when it comes to the health system and the health of the nation. I'll speak first of all from the point of view of the profession, but I'm also speaking to the Minister of Health and this way from this political pay phone, and I've also asked him a written parliamentary question. Encouraged by the reporting of numerous pregnant women throughout Croatia who have come to my aid, I ask why there is no unique position and permission in health institutions in the Republic of Croatia where birth can be carried out with regard to the presence of partners or escorts at birth and during the Covid-19 pandemic? In some hospitals, they allow a partner or escort to be present at birth, of course with protective equipment, somewhere they need a test somewhere not, and in many, whether it's KBCs, KBs or general and county hospitals. For example, in our hospital, Chakovec can, in Varazdin he can't. He can't go to Pula. He can't go to Gospić. In KBC, Rijeka can't go to KB Petrova. Where partners cannot attend most is an explanation that they can infect the mother and child or that they can infect the environment in the nursery. However, according to information collected in certain hospitals where the presence of partners or escorts is permitted, they have not had an increase in the number of infected after such births, nor do they agree with the interpretation that the partner may infect the mother and child during childbirth because they will be together in the family for a few days anyway, and with the prescribed protective equipment and the adherence to epidemiological measures will not infect the rest of the family. I therefore ask Minister Beroša to agree with the consultation of professions, gynecologists, epidemiologists, infectologists, as soon as possible, and to adopt unique instructions, so that protection equipment is needed, which tests are needed, antigenic, rapid, etc., in all healthcare institutions to allow partners or escorts to be present at birth and during the Covid-19 panededema, especially now that the epidemiological situation is improving, as well as in many EU countries, such as in neighbouring Slovenia, Germany, etc. All the time, pandemics as a doctor, I've been advocating the adherence to all the epidemiological measures, encouraging people to be vaccinated, but I'm also calling on everyone to protect not only somatic health, but also mental health. So once again, Minister, bring in unique instructions and allow pregnant women to experience the moment of birth together with their partner. Another example of the double standards of our national headquarters is the authorisation of an uninterrupted crossover of the border without previous epidemiological criteria at the time of the recent local elections. We've been alerting headquarters inconsistencies for months. What did Minister Bozinovic say recently? That the arrival in the Republic of Croatia from third countries for the purpose of voting is considered to be an emergency for personal reasons, of course, subject to the condition that the person voting has the right to vote in the local elections and that such passengers will be subject to the exception of a decision to temporarily prohibit and restrict the cross-border crossing of the Republic of Croatia in terms of the possession of tests, certificates of vaccination or disease over Covid-19 and persons travelling for unscheduled personal reasons must not be detained in the Republic of Croatia for more than 12 hours. Those who do not leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia within 12 hours will be subject to epidemiological measures. It's a finished quote. So the virus's not being transmitted until after 12 hours? What kind of message are you sending to the public? How do you expect all people to systematically comply with the prescribed measures when you make fun of all of us with your decisions? The virus is the same everywhere, but there are no rules to enter our country today, and no tomorrow. The report also said that this decision is expected to increase the number of people infected within the next three weeks and that they are not behind such a decision. But does our government and headquarters listen to all the advice of the profession? Unfortunately, only those who are politically suited to them, despite the pandemic problems. As long as the rulings mess up, muddle, delay with certain decisions and be untransparent and unworthy, we will not be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43252	Let's move on, dear colleague Zdravka Busic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43253	... The Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] A three-day conference on the position, role, cultural heritage and identity of Croats in Boka Kotorska was held in the organisation of the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar and the Programme-Organization Committee in early May of this year. This scientific conference titled “The Identity of the Croatian Kotorska Box” brought together all relevant scientific institutions in Croatia. The co-organizer is how I have already emphasized the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar, Croatian Catholic University, Faculty of Croatian Studies, Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics Zagreb and the Institute of Historical Sciences in Zadar HAZU, and the meeting was held under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Culture and Media and the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The cultural heritage and tradition of Croatian Kotorska Kotorska Kotorska in Croatia are unfortunately little known by almost all the participants of this event, which began at Ivo Pilar Institute in Zagreb and ended in Tivt. That is why one of the main objectives of this scientific meeting was the request and the request to include the scientific facts of Boka Kotorska's Croatian heritage in the respective curriculas of both Croatia and Montenegro in order to protect this vast wealth and rich heritage of the Boskelean Croats from the first order of crossover, squirming and oblivion. The Croatian Ministry of Science and Education provides and will continue to provide full support for the education of children and other projects and other activities in order to preserve the identity of Boka Kotorska Croats, the minister in this, in this, scientific conference, Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, who was the representative of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. This scientific gathering was asked for meanings from the competent ministries in Montenegro and that in their tourist guides, which is very important for Montenegro, they include the heritage of Croatian, Bokelje and Croatian, respectively, Croatian heritage of Boka Kotorje Kotorje as it really is. Thus, the main points of these conclusions are that the Republic of Montenegro will be included in its curicula in Boka Kotorska and its Croatian heritage, and that in all its tourist publications, I would like to underline this word more precisely here, to point out the Croatian cultural heritage of Boka Kotorska. In order for this scientific meeting not only to remain at the level of one academic debate, concrete conclusions and recommendations to be implemented in the work have been signed, Prof. Željko Holjevac, director of Ivo Pilar Institute. We need to preserve and protect this great Croatian heritage located in these areas, he concluded. We stand by our indigenous Croatian people in Montenegro where here from ancient times, where here from ancient times and a great cultural heritage has been the supply of which they contributed to the overall cultural picture of Montenegro, and it is also a great pearl of Croatian heritage that has highlighted and appealed in her final words to the professor of the Croatian Croatian art sector at the University of Zagreb, Vanda Babić Galić. I hope that the appeals of all participants of this gathering will bear fruit that will be reflected in all school books as well as in the tourist guides of Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43351	We're going to the third debate, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43352	Thank you, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I wasn't here at the beginning when the session started, so I don't know if we've even remembered one of the biggest dates in Croatian history, so a referendum on Croatian independence, if we don't consider it a major failure, if we are, here I will join the congratulations of Croatian citizens. So we must not forget important dates in our history, we must not forget such days. It is much invested, there is a lot of blood shed for Croatian democracy and freedom and for this possibility that we can talk at all about local elections, that we can find citizens free to go to elections and choose and I think we should do more about this and do more to encourage Croatian citizens to participate more in both local and national elections, and even if we go in the direction of some change, means the laws themselves in order to encourage citizens more to participate in the elections. We are also aware of what the relationship of the ruling structures towards referendums is, what would be the issue with this referendum on Croatian independence in the first place if people like Plenkovic and Kuščević had led the Croatian state at the time. Remember what they did with those two referendums we had. I also want to congratulate everyone who has made the election successful, who goes to the second round and something that I want to send as a message. So, we as a state and society have defined democracy, we have opted for a market economy, unfortunately we have one tendency that is driven by this ruling structure, and that is also pushed by these new political structures, that is some fear of the market economy, of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. We have almost one anti-enterprise climate in our programmes, and unfortunately we have this National Recovery and Resistance Plan that does not go in the direction of strengthening our private sector by encouraging self-employment of craftsmen, through support for innovation and development of small, medium and large enterprises. And here we have almost the same policy of the ruling HDZ and these new platforms that represent some principles, almost socialist in relation to the economy. MOST will therefore be everywhere, both here in the HS and in the Zagreb City Assembly and everywhere where we have achieved success, and we have achieved in many areas, we have entered the congregations and city councils of the 4 largest Croatian cities, being the voice of entrepreneurs, being the voice of craftsmen because this is the only way Croatia can develop. And we will therefore advocate greater participation of citizens in election processes and especially in the referendum decision-making. Here comes my colleague Marin Miletic, who I congratulate on the top score in Rijeka. He is just one of these new people in Croatian politics who advocates the public's statement, even through a referendum at the local level, and it is unfortunate that HS today and president HS, if not, and I have not heard, remembered this great day when Croatia decided therefore for, in fact, a path to independence. I welcome you all and invite the citizens to make sure that in the second round, they vote on their conscience and that we all share more in the electoral processes together and try to include the citizens by means of this statement at the local level, but also through the participation of the parties in the elections at both local and national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u43353	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. I was first of all congratulating all those who participated, especially those who won the election. Thank you for reminding me and mentioning the referendum on the independence of the Republic of Croatia, I didn't mention it, but here I am now going to mention and thank you for reminding me. It was a big and important day, one of the key historical days when the Croatian people decided largely on their fate and I thank again now and again the Croatian defenders, the first Croatian President Tudjman and all citizens and citizens for making their decision then and for having our own country. So now we move on to the agenda as announced. First point: - Proposal for an institutional framework law for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 135 The Proposer is the Government on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. I welcome the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, respected Natasha Tramišak, and I would ask her on behalf of the proposer to provide an additional explanation of the proposal for that law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47810	Thank you. The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. The institutional framework law for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia before you is necessary after the procedure has been carried out in order to find itself in this first reading on HS. The subject matter of the law itself and the importance of the adoption of this law stems from the possibility offered by the Republic of Croatia by the new EU financial period 2021-2027. It is necessary to establish a stable institutional framework for the use of funds that will be applicable precisely from this financial period, but further. The law will therefore set up an institutional framework for the use of EU funds under shared management from this financial period, but will also set out the necessary activities to strengthen the capacity of the institutional framework for the use of EU funds, the users of partners and co-workers on projects financed by European funds. In addition to the EU funds used in the previous programming period 2014-2020, the law also covers new EU funds related to security policy, which will be managed by the MUP, which will ensure a unique approach for all EU funds under this shared management in the Member States. It achieves the unification of rules and procedures, but also allows for the simplification of the use of EU funds. The European Funds for the implementation of the EU cohesion policy objectives, the common fisheries policy and the EU maritime policy, the EU's security policy and the common agricultural policy shall be implemented under shared management. There are seven different funds that will serve exactly to meet the objectives above. The current law included cohesion policy funds, common agricultural and common fisheries policies, while this proposal included funds in the competence of the MUP. According to the draft law, this basic institutional framework constitutes a co-ordination body as the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds and programme bodies in each of the management and control systems, which are the managing bodies for individual funds, the audit body and the body responsible for carrying out the accounting function. The law is no longer linked exclusively to one programming period or financial period, but is the meaning of the law to be a more lasting character. The functions and responsibilities of each body, the way in which functions are defined as well as capacities, employees, tools, and everything else will be addressed in detail by the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself after the adoption of the relevant EU legal rules. In this way, the continuity and assumptions for programming of future periods are ensured. It is also important to mention that new programming documents for the 2021-2027 period are under way and will be more clearly defined by the outlines of the new management and control system itself. In addition, it is important to mention that this law is also a reflection of the instructions and guidelines of the European Commission and of the European Council's recommendations in the National Reform Programme, as well as the EU Regional Development and Funds Committee of the previous HS called upon the need to draw up such a legislative act. It also introduces a capacity-building plan for the use of funds as a specific strategic document setting out all capacity-building activities for both bodies and all users and partners. Activities include attracting, retaining professional staff in all bodies, so employees, their continuous training and professional development and advancement, improving organisational culture, and all other necessary activities and measures. Furthermore, a regular analysis of the state of capacity of the institutional framework for the use of funds will be carried out, defining their further strengthening. What is important to mention is that the law defines the simplified and standardisation of body procedures in management and control systems and interoperability and digitisation. The programme bodies are defined as considering and taking measures and actions to further reduce administrative burdens in bodies in management and control systems and simplifying the rules for the use of EU funds. The Ministry of Regional Development, as a coordinating body, continues to take measures and activities to standardise and comply with the rules for the use of funds at national level, strengthening the timely and complete exchange of available data between competent authorities, but also optimising business processes with different digital tools, following the standards of using information and communication technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47811	I thank the minister. We have a few replicas. The first one is a respected colleague of the Rose Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47812	Thank you. Dear Ministers, therefore, I am interested in why the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Agriculture, has persistently refused to approve our LAGs, therefore to local action groups, the possibility of more source funding for their work when we know that they are extremely important to us in the rural area, in the space that is eroding us, they are really helping, Europe is doing the opposite, giving them all these opportunities, however, we have refused them in their request for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47813	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47814	Dear Parliamentarians. When we talk about LAGs, I started one LAG, LAG Luka Danube, and I know it very well in 2012 and how and how these capacities were built, primarily focused on the funds of common agricultural and fisheries, later, politics, and later we got the Flags. What is important to mention is that the LAGs themselves within the framework of the CLLD approach will also be able to be used under the 3rd Integrated Territorial Operational Programme, to be users of those measures. The fund management and control system itself, as you can see from the proposed law, will be simplified in the new period. The entry of additional bodies into a management and control system such as these LAGs would further complicate the system itself, which, of course, is the goal, to make it simpler and more flow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47815	Second replica, dear colleague Marko Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47816	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the Honorable President of the Parliament. After we have had the National Recovery and Resistance Programme in Parliament, we are now starting with the programming process and the new financial envelope. One of the preconditions is, of course, this Law on the institutional framework. In addition to the 7 funds that the law will regulate, it is very commendable to go, and to become a chapter on capacity building and also to have the co-operation of the Parliament and the executive authorities, where, as we have said today and on the board, it was the conclusion of the previous committee in the previous meeting. What is important here is that we now have 10.7 billion euros, in the future 24.5, of which 10 goes to the National Recovery Programme and just boost productivity, digitalisation of the process will lead to better efficiency because we already lack 1,000 people in the EU funds process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47817	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47818	Your Honor, MP. Yeah, right, right, here's a chance to point out. In the next period, twice as much funding is available in the Republic of Croatia as in 2014-2020, and when we specifically talk about the resources of the Multi-annual Financial Framework, which is the subject of this law, we are talking about 13 billion euros for different EU policies and objectives, and we will also create the necessary and necessary preconditions in order to start implementing all activities in time and accelerate the absorption of EU funds into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47819	Third replica, dear colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47820	The main problem in the use of EU funds is that there is no independent body at the administrative level which could verify tender procedures, public procurement procedures, criteria, etc. Therefore, the legality and regularity of the allocation of funds is not controlled at the administrative level but is sent to the DORH or the MUP who are already overcrowded with jobs, and all of this is sealed, and the only service that has professional powers and which could exercise such control has no power to do so. Therefore, my question is whether these programming bodies mentioned in these legislative amendments will take up such a function and another issue, given their function of the audit, in which way it will refer to OLAF, given that we have a serious problem with what happened to Poreč and the discharge system which said that the absolute sustainability of the EU's decision-making bodies is visible without taking into account the most important acts at national level. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, our guys said the program was working, and The EU is not good. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47821	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47822	Dear Parliamentarians, so I must mention here that there is already a system of governance and control that recognizes, of course, the control of public procurement procedures. In order to verify any cost incurred in the Republic of Croatia and to ask for a refund of EU budget and budget of the Republic of Croatia, we need to pass all these management and control systems. We can further and need to further strengthen these capacities, as we have mentioned, in order to successfully absorb this even greater allocation of funds, it will be necessary to further strengthen the administrative capacity primarily and this also foresees this framework. However, there is a system of governance and control, level 2 intermediate bodies, especially here, we point out, the Central Agency for the financing and negotiation of projects from EU funds already has the mechanism and for further control, some ex-ante and ex-post procurement procedures carried out by users. For any irregularity observed in the procurement procedures, the user receives a financial correction, i.e. the withdrawal of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47823	Thank you. Comrade Barbaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47824	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister. In the case of a Member State of the 2. of this law are listed programmes aimed at strengthening European territorial cooperation. The IPA programme for cross-border cooperation of the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, is listed under point a. Given that there are real problems in finding partners from Montenegro, I note that only 10 local communities are participating in the programme, can I ask myself, therefore, can, such as the Republic of Serbia's RH-BiH programme, be the RH-BiH, for the sake of more accessible and easier development of these programmes and the realisation of these programmes? Let us not forget that the local community in the Republic of Croatia is generally not interested or too interested in these programmes. Another issue is in the work of other listed programmes such as Interreg, Eurometeran or the Adriatic Ionian Programme of Transnational Cooperation, is it also given, or can the local community or regions from BiH be registered?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47825	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47826	Dear Parliamentarian, you have seen well, so we include, of course, the European territorial cooperation programme and transnational programmes. What is important to mention is that already countries participating in a bilateral or trilateral programme are predefined, so it is not possible to remove Montenegro from this programme. So this is one of the trilateral programmes where the Republic of Croatia, together with BiH and Montenegro, participates in the same programme, so that partners will continue to have to co-operate with the communities from Montenegro, but also the Ministry of Regional Development as well as the managing body for this programme provides the possibility of helping and cooperating to find adequate partners, partners and BiH and Croatia in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47827	Now she will speak, dear colleague Posavec, the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47828	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, all eyes in the Republic of Croatia are against you, to your ministry, and that Croatia will indeed provide European funds for its development and let's say so in a so-called way that we catch a rhythm with other EU members. Clearly, by means of a relatively slow retreat, we are in some ways lagging behind, and that distinction will be difficult to catch. And therefore, it is no wonder that in the national recovery plan, the government has suffered, I will say freely, all those projects that are in the final stage of completeness because they are truly extremely large funds that we should withdraw in the next 3 years, or the next 7 years. from EU funds. These are significantly, significantly higher funds than any of those funds we've withdrawn in the last seven years. So I don't understand why the government isn't hearing any questions from the field, about the FLAGs, the Flags. and all those to help them withdraw more funds. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47829	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47830	Dear MPs, so here is an opportunity to highlight the current state of absorption of European funds in the period 2014-2020, as you pointed out, but it is important here and further to say that you know that it was too late to negotiate European funds in the period 2014 to 2015, respectively, in '16. when we maximised these activities. The current data is that we have agreed 95 billion kunas of the value of different European projects, 117% of the financial allocation, and that means 17% above what we have at our disposal just to make sure that we will withdraw the maximum amount, not to remain without a certain amount of funds for those projects that will have to be phased out, so large projects that have slowed down absorption. In addition, it has been paid to end-users more than 53% and 43 billion kuna certified by the Commission, 53%, certified by the Commission 43% and almost 36 billion kuna, which is a 15th and 20% jump in several months, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47831	Thank you very much. Now it's time for a respected colleague of Anamarija Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47832	Thank you very much. Here is a respected minister, we have heard little in this previous response, but with poor programming, major problems for withdrawing EU funds were complicated and sometimes unclear conditions from the tender, and this has contributed to the lack of human capacities that were ready to report and implement the EU project. This law can make it all better, and we can expect better results. I wonder if regional and local development agencies can expect this law to strengthen their human capacities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47833	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47834	Dear parliamentary MPs, so when we mention regional development agencies and local development agencies, I will say primarily here regionally as co-ordinators, they are already involved in the programming and development process itself, the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, the effective human potential and this third territorial programme, and this third territorial programme is primarily intended for projects at the local and regional level, followed by the EU cohesion policy in terms of strengthening regions, especially those that are lagging behind in the development of the EU average. So I believe that not only will their administrative capacities be strengthened, but we will also implement more quickly and quality projects funded by EU funds at the right local and regional level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47835	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47836	Thank you. Dear Ministers, one of the key problems faced by those who have been implementing projects in the last financial perspective, i.e. the one that is still going on was the fact that the different number of intermediate bodies of the level one, which is a different number of intermediate bodies of the level two level, created an inequality of practice and, in fact, from the call for tenders to the actual cost control of what is acceptable and what are unacceptable costs, etc., I do not see that we have improved this institutional framework in any way. And what I don't see, and what's a big failure to do with this first financial perspective that we've had, is that we haven't strengthened regional capacity to manage a part of the resources that we could really reflect regional policy and strengthen capacities at regional level rather than go to further centralisation at national level, how do you explain that, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47837	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47838	Dear Parliamentarians, here I must mention that in this Law on the institutional framework you see the simplification of the framework itself and you have the basic defined programming bodies as managing bodies and here you see what is necessary under the European Commission to verify the bodies performing the accounting function and audit. Furthermore, when we talk about intermediate bodies level 1 or level 2, they occur in the delegation system of functions by the managing body. The extent to which these bodies will be in the next period will result after the programming process has been completed. Here we will see the necessity of how many such bodies we must have according to what our operational programmes will say. When you talk about strengthening capacity at local and regional level, I can tell you that we are going towards strengthening the role of cities and urban development, which is also one of the priorities and recommendations of cohesion policy. So all cities, city seats will be ITU cities and will get that intermediate body level 3. So I can say we're going against what you said, which is to strengthen The role of the local level. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47839	Thank you Minister, you can go back to your post now and we'll continue the debate later, and we'll go see if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yes, Marko Pavic, will speak as president of the EU Committee on Regional Development and Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47840	Thank you very much. The esteemed speaker of the assembly, respected ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, on the committee as the home working body of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds, has been presented with the law, just these two components have been presented. One that defines the institutional management frameworks for European funds is also the structure of future operational programmes. And another component that has just come to strengthen and simplify procedures. The Committee, with 7 votes in favour and one abstention, will also propose a conclusion that the Assembly adopts and that all proposals be sent to the Proposer or Government for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47841	I'm opening a debate now. The first is the Club of Representatives of MOST and respected colleague Selak Rasdic. I would ask the Government's representative just to take your place, Minister, all right, just a little bit, Minister, you're the Secretary of State, yes, yes, the Secretary of State is here, please. Just go, go closer, sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47842	It is nice of the minister to say that in the 5th of the 20 minutes she had she exhibited what she considered necessary for the Croatian Parliament, and then disappeared at the time when parliamentary deputies had to contact her to give their criticism on this legislative proposal. Congratulations on the practice. Furthermore, in the same tone, I will continue to say that it is embarrassing that only Monday we were scheduled for this week to prevent a quality debate in the assembly. If the president of the assembly has time to publish his naked photos in bathing suits on social networks, then there must be time in time to put together a weekly assembly schedule. If there's no time at work, he can do it in the face of what the Prime Minister likes to say. What should first be pointed out here is that this refers to the National Recovery Plan. So, the plan we discussed in the assembly but only in the light of its summary until unfortunately none of the opposition MPs referred to the full plan that was finally announced, for our contribution too late since it was published recently before it was sent to the EU authorities. However, I did look at what is found in the above - mentioned plan, which has over 1,000 pages. And one thing really pleasantly surprised me. I thank the Prime Minister for including my proposals in this regard. So now I have a plan of gender equality that is as much appreciated as my proposal for possible stepping up to respect and the position of men in relation to the problems they face with regard to their sex, for example, a lack of quality reviews that would be preventive of their health, which would then lead to a minor deterioration and a less negative impact of the coronary crisis on their health. There is also an important proposal to at least include the processing industry in some ways, and my proposal for interdisciplinaryism, the fight against violence and social consideration is also respected. So, what is the key message here is that it should be acknowledged, firstly that the opposition makes constructive proposals, and that is not what was communicated to the Croatian public. Secondly, if these proposals were accepted occasionally, what would be a revitalising practice if Croatian citizens were aware of it. But unfortunately, I have to note that there is still no key turning point, which is giving wings to this plan to the private sector, our entrepreneurs who would pay multiple investment instead of the state having control over capital investments. I find this particularly problematic because similar announcements come from the programme of the country's second most important budget manager, Zagreb, which is also completely denying the need and role of entrepreneurs in its programme. We should support a proactive Croatia that is capable of creating additional value, rather than leaving key investments in the hands of state or city or political control. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a recipe for failure. After all, we hoped those times were behind us. Another proposal that should have gone towards the democratisation of society, which is supposed to be important to you because of the wonders you opened the borders, ignored the epidemiological measures so that during the local elections certain buses could run to Croatia and cast votes where you thought you could profit from it, the electronic vote you refused to put into this big plan, which would allow us to finally have quality and complete democracy. You also do nothing about the correspondence vote, and these are small shifts towards a great democracy of society. So, as far as the overall national plan concerning these legal amendments to the opposition was concerned, it was constructive. It is a shameful statement by Minister Maric that the opposition is not that summary or read when he sees his own proposals within the whole plan, tell the Croatian public that you are able to co-operate with the opposition, but that you have given us a complete document and there could have been many more constructive proposals before. Also, unfortunately, this key turn towards encouraging entrepreneurship has been missed as well as the democratisation of society. As far as these legal changes are concerned, the first question is, what have you been waiting for so far? If they state that it is already December 11, 2019 that it is necessary to draft a special law to improve the implementation of projects funded by eu funds, why did it take you two years for just a few legal articles that will apply to programming and coordination bodies and facilitate the absorption of EU funds? The second question is, what are these legal changes, in particular, when we learn that they will be subject to further regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the adoption of the relevant EU legal rules? So, first of all, sublegal acts which will again be a derivation of the role of the Parliament because we will not have any influence on this, and they will assume a very likely function of the legislative acts will bring the Government, independently of the Parliament, as they will control everything that happens with these funds, regardless of the Assembly, and we are also waiting for the legal regulations of the EU that will enable these bodies to be put into office and which will then be adapted to those sublegal acts. Furthermore, what is mentioned here particularly is that we have already seen the lack of guidance from our civil servants in the way of implementing the public procurement system concerning the exploitation of EU funds, and I will be very specific because of the fact that there is a representative Pavić, it is particularly cynical to mention the objectives here, development, optimization of the state information structure, and we know that a project of further optimization and decentralisation of local and regional (regional) units of self-government has already been included in the recovery plan, which already existed in 2019. which Minister Pavic was then in charge of propagating the plan, and this same project, which he then received, failed to even carry out the most ordinary public procurement in order to obtain an application for the needs of the project. Moreover, due to improper public procurement, the Ministry of Justice and Administration had to pay the complainant 45,000 kuna. So we paid for the penalty because we did not know how to spend even the most ordinary public procurement in order to spend the EU funds we had already received for a project signed by the then Minister Pavic, who was re-emerged in the recovery plan as a thanks. Where's the penalization? Who's being punished for that? Is this about the lack of education and the lack of knowledge of our civil servants, or is it about malfeasance, corruption and serious systemic oversight? We'll obviously never know because when public procurement falls, when we pay for it from our pocket, then that project goes further for the prize and will get even more funding than it got before. What I also want to point out is that the basic problem is, and it is incorrect that what the Minister said is that we do not really control the subsidisation fraud because the service of only five employees at the national level of AFCOS, which is the Office for the Prevention of Irregularity and fraud, does not have the power to exercise control and determine irregularities themselves, and this legal framework does not change that, and this is a key problem for us in the independent control of EU spending. Because what's going on now, and why did I mention the Porec drain? OLAF punished them, or warned, because they were using funds improperly, and they said that, and our control system confirmed that everything was fine, so they complained that the EU bodies were not following what the local authorities were telling them. Who doesn't know or who doesn't want to use and control the spending of European funds properly? Is this Croatia or a malicious EU? I leave it to Croatian citizens to judge for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47843	We're going to another debate, a respected colleague of the Rose Wolfovac Association of State Movement Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47844	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, in monitoring the implementation of the IPARD programme and the Rural Development Programme from the outset, different development stakeholders have clearly observed and reported to the competent authorities on a large number of fraud irregularities and active and passive corruption in the work of the Agricultural Payments Agency, the Ministry of Agriculture, the ARPE, the State Audit and, in general, to all public authorities located in the support control system. It is fully evident that, in general, agricultural policy, rural development policy in Croatia has been led for years to the least said non-professional, lobbyist and corruptive way, which is in complete contrast with national interests, which has also led to social, demographic degradation of rural areas and has compromised the self-sustainability of the state, which is clearly evident from all growing indicators of the decline of agricultural production and import growth. Why is that? Since the implementation of the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development has been initiated, the whole system has been set up in a way of full legal uncertainty, non-transparency and self-will or manipulation of civil servants, subsistence officers and officials implementing it. Given that an increasing number of existing and potential users no longer wish to tolerate such a humiliating and discriminatory treatment, we must warn of the fact that there is the possibility of launching a series of claims against the Republic of Croatia for damages based on the violation of the Constitution and the law in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the violation of the fundamental principles and the legislative framework of the EU, I am primarily referring to the extensive interpretation of legal norms, which is the usual practice of European courts, or the rule that the legal norm is interpreted in a way that the legislator wanted to achieve by adopting a certain legal norm, which is the exercise of the right. From the Ministry of Agriculture, only sometimes leaks information about the amount of damages already paid by the ministry by lost disputes. Let us be more specific, it is the money of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because the funds paid through damage claims are not EU funds, but those are the funds of all taxpayers of our country. I will mention an eclant case of favoration by the Ministry of Agriculture to one of the entrepreneurs from Slavonia who managed to withdraw millions of funding through the projects, which has been reported intensively in Croatian media. Let us also mention that the said entrepreneur is otherwise one of the ruling party's financiers and in the media space was often mentioned because of his closeness with our senior president. The said rich man sued Croatia for suspending the payment of support from European funds for 3 of its companies totaling 126 million kuna. The Osijek Commercial Court has, in its own time, wrongly ruled that he would be compensated for damages of HRK 38.4 million. This entrepreneur then reported 3 daughters to a tender for 4.2 support for investment in the processing, marketing and development of agricultural production. The projects mentioned are one of the first to be registered in a tender opened by the Ministry of Agriculture or the paying agency in agriculture. At the time, the EU made its clear recommendation that Croatia should grant support of up to 200,000 euros. But Croatia immediately planned to take deep into the pocket of the Union's budget and first made a decision to award 5m euros per project. In view of the 3 projects of the said entrepreneur, the amount of support should have been 15m euros. Only when the castle is raised is the information coming from the Ministry of Agriculture that will suspend the payment of support for the projects mentioned. The epilogue is that because of the individual's irregularities and attempts to please him, the ministry still had to reject the entity's projects and earn the lawsuits. Of course, a powerful entrepreneur in court has managed to prove a suspicious ministry and now all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying out of their pockets. This is the game played by the ministry and employees who also pay citizens out of their pockets. It was also proved by the court's decision that the agency did not comply with the law, since the said entrepreneur did not warn of doubts of irregularities, and it was concluded that it could not be defined as artificially creating conditions on the basis of which it would secure a higher profit. By order of the court, it was ordered that the Republic of Croatia should pay one of those 3 companies for the withdrawn support amounting to HRK 38.4 million, with a tight interest rate, and the state was forced to settle the costs of the case amounting to 1.2 million kuna and the ruling on the other two companies, as far as I know, has not yet been made but the public has no reason to doubt that the Republic of Croatia and them will lose. In order to elaborate more clearly from the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, I recall how the IPARD was implemented in the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2016 with the supervision and responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the next 5 years, so by the end of 2021, by the framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community of the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid instruments under the pre-accession assistance instruments, i.e. the law which confirms it and the accompanying documents primarily so-called. A sectoral agreement. The implementation of accredited measures was implemented through laws and sublegislative acts, regulations which were contrary to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, as well as contrary to European law, thus noting that Europe is not a candidate country, nor does any Member State require the implementation of European funds to violate the Constitution or its own legislative regulations if it is not contrary to European law. The same practice continued in the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020, based on the commitments undertaken by the implementation of the Partnership Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds for Growth and Jobs between 2014 and 2020, was the same practice in the SAPARD. In view of the above, we are warning of the fact that the Republic of Croatia as a blood user of the funds, in the event of a lawsuit by end-users directed towards the Constitutional Court, which will, for the sake of non-compliance of the same, be forwarded primarily to the European Court of Human Rights, have extremely great financial damages and also damages to the reputation of the State which has proven to be a system of enforcement contrary to all the principles and law of the EU, although the competent authorities have been warned for years that they have to amend the legislative and sub-legal framework, because they are not always contrary to the Constitution and to the European case-law which is a small number, while the Commission's decisions under appeal no longer have any right to state all the acts themselves under the rules have been drawn up by the administrative act and the right of law of law, which is not always in certain cases which are a small number. We have only recently changed this, and only after Leader's network of Croatia has succeeded through the Constitutional Court's law enforcement office to prove that the provisions of the Law on Agriculture are unconstitutional. Finally, when the competent authorities made a decision, they followed the process of putting the same entities on the blacklist, which took away the user's right to use European funds, which was total discrimination. It is clear when we recapture everything as we experience from the implementation of the European funds of the first full financial period, but also from a wide range of recommendations from the European Commission and the audit findings indicate the need to strengthen administrative and absorption capacities as well as the need for further simplification of procedures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47845	We are going to the third debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47846	My colleagues and colleagues, today on the table we have a first reading of the Law on the institutional framework for the use of EU funds. So, the roof law that provides a framework for the use of European funds. We had it in the previous period, so it might be good to start summing up the successes so far and then see what we can do, what we learned from the first period and that it can be implemented and improved in the future financial envelope. For the start of EUR 10.7 billion we have so far, EUR 24 billion, 24.5 we have in the future. So we have 2.5 times more resources and once again they're distributed to two mechanisms or three largest ones. The first is the National Programme for Resistance and Recovery, the multiannual financial framework, or the EU funds, and the Solidarity Fund and all the resources we have to rebuild the earthquake path. The institutional framework law primarily defines the framework for institutions, which has so far been defined and to answer the question primarily, and these are also EU regulations, namely from Brussels, to define who the managing body is. Furthermore, whether that management body will delegate its powers or not to those management bodies. In Croatia there are 3, so the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system and the social welfare, and the Ministry of Agriculture. And it is then further at the government level whether and in what way these powers, which we define to them by this law, will be delegated further or not, and powers are on them. Both the law and the council are involved in defining which powers they go to. When we look at the use of this envelope, we took over 9% of the contract and 1% of the payment, now the minister said 117% of the contract, 53% of the payment. And it's not true that the minister wasn't in the assembly, she was here this morning since 8:00, unfortunately when we had a hearing on the parent board, no opposition counsel came forward for any debate. So we see enough how interested they are when there are no cameras, when we can discuss the opposition to the debate on this matter. We also need to move away from corruption issues. Absolutely unaccountable, here is counterpart Selak Rasdic, again explained, so there is a separate control agency called ARPA and is defined in this law as a legal person with public authority responsible for system audit activities. There's an entire agency that controls every contest, which every call controls. OLAF is only the last institution in Croatia, and as far as I know, I have a total of 10 procedures that have been conducted, while this agency that corresponds to Brussels has learned that, for example, Romania and Bulgaria, we have a control situation. If something were wrong, Brussels would already react as it has reacted in some countries such as the Czech Republic, which has a blockade of EU funds, Hungary and other countries on the subject. Law rolls. So far, we have shown that we are successful in using European funds and that we know how to negotiate, the government knows how to negotiate large funds, and it is the government's success to fight for these funds as much as it wants and claims otherwise, but it is precisely that we have this law, that we have a specific operational programme concerning the integrated territorial programme, and it is the consequence that we received Article 65 in the regulation of an additional EUR 400 million for regions that are less developed and EUR 100 million additional for agriculture, only Croatia, a special article, and then that extra money that we received is transposed into an integrated territorial programme. Therefore, the success of the government is very important, the National Recovery Programme is glad that some things are included from opposition such as gender equality, and we thank you for your comments. On the other hand, some of the things you've warned about have already been planned by the government, for the processing industry, billions of kuna has already been provided from this envelope. Out of the €6.3 billion that we have done through the National Programme, 15 billion kuna goes direct support to entrepreneurs, billions of kunas for processing, electric trains, 650 million kunas for refrigerators, large school construction, kindergarten and everything else. We are now starting to develop operational programmes that will also come under discussion on committees. I will invite you and invite you all to come and be guests at the joint sessions that we will have with the Committee on European Affairs. So this law has two components. One defines the institutional framework for the use of funds, and we are now bringing it together until the regulation is fully adopted. Therefore, the final number of governing bodies will also be defined by delegated powers, but the power to give this law to the managing authorities. And here we have 7 funds that will be transferred and used through different operational programs. The novelty is this integrated territorial programme and the novelty is 3 new funds that will be used by the MUP precisely for the issue of border control and asylum and migration programmes. The second component of the law I'm particularly proud of is capacity building. We are already missing these 10.7 billion euros in the system of thousands of people right now. Now we have two-and-a-half times more resources and just some of the things we learned from this period that we're successful at, we're looking at how to be more successful. Thus, a capacity-building plan for the use of EU funds will be adopted to attract and retain employees, continuing their training and progress. The second component will be strengthening the capacity of users and partners. We also saw that we needed additionally, and in what we invested 400 million kunas already in this envelope in regional development agencies, but we think we need further simplification and standardisation of the process. What we learned from this period is that it is precisely when digitising the entire system that each component of the system does not do its own application but defines interoperability, digitisation and administrative discharge. Therefore, this legislative framework will allow for faster and better absorption, defines the bodies in the system, which will then continue to delegate by the Government's Regulation on fined powers, but the powers are sitting in the governing bodies, defining very clearly the control and audit system. And once again, in Brussels they have learned in some previous experiences Member States are not fools and fools, so there is a separate independent agency to review each competition. And the third component, digitisation, interoperability and centralisation of that process of the national one where the standards of all these operations are defined through the coordination body. In all, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this law, we believe it to be a good step. I also believe that the ministry will take into account all the proposals and in the debate. We all want the fund management system to be more fleeting, faster, more operational and that we can have a system, and we need to increase its productivity so that we can absorb two and a half times more funds in this future period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47847	We have one replica, a respected colleague, an apology from the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47848	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. My colleague Pavić said we're not interested in a discussion when there's no cameras. Kolega Pavić, the cameras are there because of Croatian citizens who have the right to follow and see the debate, and not because of parliamentary deputies, and this makes it impossible for them to have a minister who disappeared when Croatian citizens can monitor the assembly. And it would be more useful for you to deal with the failure of your own projects that you have put back into this plan than to talk about non-existent successes within the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47849	Comrade Selak Rasludic, it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister doesn't have to be here, the Secretary of State here, so it's totally in line with the Rules of Procedure, and you've been using this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up, and I see you're looking for another breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47850	If my colleague Pavic tells me that I'm completely out of line, and I've made clear arguments about how to manage EU funds, and if he's telling MPs that they're not interested in the debate when there's no cameras, then it's certainly an article. 238th and the demeaning of parliamentarians. Mr. Jandroković, this is not a beach, this is HS and here it is spoken with arguments, not with muscles, so I ask you to respect my reasoned violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47851	So, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and I repeat that once again, you've replicated it. So what counterpart Pavić said is acceptable, it is consistent with what is heard here in HS because we hear much worse and harder qualifications about the work of MPs, so I don't give any notices. If you warned him about what you're saying now, then probably 90% of the debate would have a warning and this other one of yours is right to comment, I won't look back on it. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Dalia Oreskovic, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47852	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. And first of all, the honourable Mr. Jandrokovic, HDZ and all the others from the former convocation of the Croatian Parliament who participated in the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, I must say, this Rules of Procedure is no good for us, it is high time to go to change it if we are to return to the Croatian Assembly the role it has under the Constitution and this is the body in which the dialogue is being held and in which the best solutions are sought. This speaker should not serve to hold unnecessary monologues on it and to speak to ourselves in the beard but to address one another, and if the rules of the Rules of Procedure do not allow it, then this act is not worth anything. Now let me get back to the topic of this debate, so I have to ask what this is? I will address my colleague Mark Pavic as the government has shown through its representatives the extreme lack of interest in dialogue with the Croatian Parliament and for an explanation of what this law serves in the first place. So the beginning of a Latin saying says "Falsa nominateio non-night", that means that mislabelling a single act does not change its essence or that to try to even simpler say, is not the law all that is called by law and this is not the law, this is nothing. These 14 poor and miserable provisions do not give any new institutional framework or any new response in the system of managing European funds and withdrawing funds from European funds and no improvement compared to the system we have so far. And that's where I look back at everything Mr. Pavić tried to say in his 10 minutes of exposure. So, at the risk of this being some kind of demeanor or insult, but you're also giving your dose to the opposition, I'm going to say that you're the best leader of a group I call flossulas. So these are the ones who are able to speak pure floscule for 10 minutes without touching any single word of matter and marrow itself. You said this law creates an institutional framework. I'm asking what institutional framework in the new programming period do we now have, better, better quality, different from what we've had so far? So the position of the foreign centre as a civil, liberal option is that the state must have laws that are legible, which are understandable not only to those bodies that will implement the law but to all Croatian citizens. The position of the Party Center is that Croatian Parliament must be the body that defines what other institutions we will have and that the Croatian Assembly is the body that will define the powers of these bodies, procedures and procedures. And what is often happening in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament is that we bring some acts that are called by law only and that the law in the right sense and content, they are not, we say, the following. All that is important for the functioning of a body, we will solve it later, in some regulations, and so we will now have the powers of the coordinating body and the procedures and procedures by which this body will function, and will then resolve the regulations of the Government. So, what is the power and role of this Croatian Parliament? Absolutely nothing. In itself, that is enough reason to say no to this law, but not just to say no to this law, but to say your practice that you have introduced in the past almost a year's work. Therefore, this means denying the constitutional role and constitutional tasks of the legislative body. Absolutely and harshly not. And secondly, when we talk about the management and control system, when we talk about capacity building, that's what you said to Mr. Pavić, that he is also one of the most important components. So it seems to me that according to the list of these bodies that we have listed here, these poor 14 articles, we will have more of these levels than we really have well-trained qualified people to implement EU projects. And you say again, there will be a plan to strengthen those personnel. Who's gonna bring it? Who has the right to make such plans if it is not the Croatian Parliament? All in all, if this law should serve to better implement that recovery and resilience plan that we neither saw in the full sense of that word, nor could we discuss it, if we as the Croatian Parliament were not to agree, not that we could not agree, but we could not honestly or manifest it, then it is to such a law, or such an act that is not the law, we can just say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47853	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47854	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today in the Croatian Parliament, there is an extremely important point on the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia for the period ahead. For the period during which the Republic of Croatia, as the youngest member of the EU, thanks to cohesion funds and all the funds provided from the EU, should actually reach one level of a better economy, one level of competitiveness with the others should be called so, older and more developed EU members. Of course, in order to be able to discuss this point of the agenda at all today, we must return a little bit to our past and remember that here in the Croatian Parliament we have actually established an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments as early as 2012. Are we far away from this law in relation to what we had in 2012, it's debateable and we may have to leave the word to the experts, but the circumstances have changed significantly, and in 2012 we were not an EU member, we have not had such opportunities and we have not had the perspective we have today. However, in what is now, 9 years we have statistics, we have something to look back on and see how far Croatia has been until 2013, and later and after 2013, I can actually say and fail at withdrawing EU funds that should have been incorporated into my economy and which should have been strengthened. And that is why I think it is extremely important today to conduct this debate in parallel with one view of the national recovery and resilience plan that we have recently discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, especially because today we are talking about a seven-year period of 2021 to 2027, and in this programming period we are also overlapping between 2021 and 2023 in which we should really withdraw significant funds from the EU at a very fast pace. It is not surprising, therefore, that in this National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which was seen in this Croatian Assembly only in the draft, all of those projects that are in the high stage of completion were found because the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself is aware that it has no capacity and has no administrative capacity in such a short time to withdraw extremely large funds. Extremely large funds indicate the problem of our absorption. We should not and should not run away from this because at the moment we become all together, I believe that the problem of Croatia is easier for us to solve together. So, in the next 2 years in the Republic of Croatia, we would have to spend about as much money as we have barely realised in the past 7 years. Of course it is a big bite for Croatia, of course it is a big bite for this moment at which we are facing the fact that these funds will be at European level, or these plans defined at the end of the half of this year, and then by the document that we are talking about today, the Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds we are putting down powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and giving it space to define by regulations all those mechanisms that we need to start withdrawing these funds within 120 days. Therefore, the end of the first half of this year for the funds set out in 1.1.2021, plus 120 days for the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulations. 120 days is four months. So somewhere around October, we could have frameworks based on which the economy, entrepreneurs, institutions, the civil sector and all that is important in Croatia for the withdrawal of EU funds could get a platform to behave on and on which they should continue to act so that, I repeat, by 2023, and then '27. The years we've pulled out these extremely, extremely large resources that are necessary, there's no doubt about it. We will all agree that EU funds and EU budgets are a great opportunity for all members, a great opportunity for us, I have mentioned as the youngest and indeed a member who needs a lot of adaptation. The question is, what have we all done together to improve these administrative capacities? Why has the Government of Andrej Plenkovic waited until now to try to improve the system of state administration, where these reforms are and what are the people, which is the number of people we will need to speed up these, attracting these funds? Not just their allocation, but their realization. And when I was able to ask the Minister here today in the replica, she didn't answer how much money we realized. All the time, there's been public deception about the fact that we've allocated certain funds, but not that we've realized them. All the time the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Resort don't want to hear the terrain, they don't want to hear all those remarks that experts are talking about when they say the whole system is complicated, that it's too many administrative obstacles and barriers that we created ourselves. This is where the colleague first said and mentioned the LAGs in the Republic of Croatia, the LAGs that you are the bearers of rural development and which should have as little obstacle to withdrawing funds. These LAGs are the only ones in the Republic of Croatia that have not secured double funding while at the same time having the Flags in the same Republic of Croatia. So this is an injustice that is inadmissible and that we must remove in order to truly ensure not only balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, but development of the Republic of Croatia that will be balanced with other EU countries. On this trail, we would love if all that legislation here was defined, all those coordinating bodies, all those institutions that need to participate in creating better conditions for withdrawing these funds, were to make priorities for working in the Republic of Croatia if it were to be defined within which shortest time we can ensure that the contingent of young, educated, educated people who have the ability and make them available to all together to say that the withdrawal of EU funds is a priority for the development of the Republic of Croatia so that only with these means and opportunities can we ensure that young people remain here and the development of the economy. So far, it has been shown that the funds we withdrew are not the funds that contributed to economic recovery, they are not the funds that contributed to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia but are the funds that we have developed other branches in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, we are not meant to return to the level we were at before the covida after the implementation of the National Recovery Plan. We want Croatia to use this as a possibility and that during this short period we have one blitzkrieg in which we will show how many of our people are able, how many of our local units are able with knowledge and vision, and we believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the coordinating body that it forms should be there fully at the service and that this job should be a priority work of the Republic of Croatia in the next period. It certainly has an important role to play in and HS, it must not be bypassed, what is happening at the moment is that national programmes are being brought somewhere else, that we are getting short information about them and that in fact the government is all in line with its regulations that we are subsequently informed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47855	Thank you. Following individual debates, the first representative is Marija Selak Raspoudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47856	What do these legal changes bring? These legislative changes regulate the work of programming and coordination bodies whose core task is to simplify, to be some kind of system of audit and control of EU spending. They also point out that the main problem in the use of EU funds is. We also heard in the recommendations of the EU Council for 2019 and 2020 that we need to remove all shortcomings for the purpose of exploiting EU funds. And what are all these shortcomings? So some of the fundamental shortcomings certainly relate to the education or education of state bodies on how to use funds and attract funds, as well as to the system of supervision and control. I'm going to look at the examples of both of these suggestions to show exactly what's wrong and what needs to be improved. As regards the education of our officials, Pavic's project, which I mentioned earlier, further optimization and decentralisation of the local and self-government units from 2019, which was implemented in 2020 by the public procurement system which fell into appeal and for which we paid 45,000 kuna shows either serious corruption in state administration bodies or that our authorities do not know how to implement a public procurement system relating to the spending of EU funds or their rules. So we have a serious problem with education. Whether these legal changes, and that's the problem we've been following for ten years, something we've done to change that is an open question. The sooner it would be, the more the problem would not exist, because the question, which I asked when we spoke to the State Commission for the control of the public procurement system or public procurement procedures, how much we actually paid for such pens throughout all these years for falling public procurement, which the money went to the complainant, which someone did not know how to make quality tenders in relation to the EU. That's the first problem, and this is a concrete example of what it failed to do. It is tragic that the epilogue of the whole situation that this same project is included in this Recovery and Recovery Plan. The second question concerns quality control, so what is our basic problem. We lack a system that could control the spending of funds from eu funds, so the system that would be in this OLAF at national level would be in charge of curbing irregularities and fraud, but would have the power to carry out controls and establish irregularities, not to pass on to the DORH or the MUP who are blocked by business and who are not experts in EU funds that cannot do the job as they belong. At the administrative level, we need an independent body that could check the legality of the allocation because what fellow Pavic remains unclear is a specific case, and I said that I would give examples that it would not turn out to be empty or that I am dealing with some unfounded projections that come from the lines of opposition. So, unfortunately for you, I also read OLAF's report to see what's wrong with Croatia about the control of EU spending, and I found an example that is referred to in the saying, which refers to the systems of disposal that OLAF has penaliized. In further search, I have observed that there is a public indication of the Denissance of the discharge system which is rebelling against OLAF's decision and which concludes that the absolute sustainability of European decision-making bodies is apparent without the opinion of the most important acts of the national governance structure of the EU funds. Well, do you see what a first-class scandal that is? We have OLAF's most serious body to combat EU corruption that says this is not good for you, that's where you didn't spend the funds as it belongs and we have our national authorities who say everything's okay. Who's crazy here? Who made a mistake? Does OLAF really not listen to our recommendations to us who know the situation better or do we, as a country with a corruption problem, let some things go under the radar that should be penalized, so that makes us external bodies like OLAF instead? We lack a serious control system and the Croatian people have the right to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47857	We have several replicas, the first representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47858	My colleague Rasudiæ, therefore, you have brought out this irregularity here, which in fact the international bodies have established around European funds and the fact that we pretend to be all right, but this is not only the case when we talk about European funds but we generally have a problem, and while we were in this process of joining the EU, while it was some kind of stronger external control, it seemed that the fight against corruption somehow worked out better, when that external control retreated, when we were actually left to ourselves unfortunately corruption and perception of corruption and in society grew. How to respond, what should be done and how more successful in actually using European funds with as few irregularities or such remarks coming from OLAF?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47859	So to begin with, you have to find out who's wrong, is it wrong, here I have a concrete example that I pulled out myself, is it wrong OLAF or is it in the wrong Poreč system of disposal, or our national authorities for the control system that they said was all right with what was doing that disposal system? So this is the first answer we need because I leave room for the possibility that EU bodies do not know enough about the situation in Croatia, so they implement some decisions that are not in line with the real situation on the ground. But someone needs to clear it up, not that I Google, Google and Google, and I'm looking for what this imaginary body might be. Give us the unequivocal names of those that OLAF called. It's the same case with the Public Procurement Report. The most often is not about concrete examples, most often spoken abstractly, one company that deals with this and therefore OLAF acts as well. First we have to figure out who's in trouble, and then what's actually the epilogue of it. And at the end of the line, carrying out controls and identifying irregularities that will be the authority of the department to combat irregularities and fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47860	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47861	Thank you. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, you have pointed out the problem of education of civil servants in public procurement procedures. However, when young civil servants are educated in public procurement procedures, they go to private agencies after education because the colors are paid there. Why? Because actually here in the state service, I can't move forward if it's progressing based on a party card. How do you actually see a solution to this problem to keep young educated officials in public procurement procedures?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47862	I thank you for that question. I have indeed been adept at interpreting the gaps around this public procurement by putting this on the burden of insufficient education rather than on the burden of corruption of our civil servants. Yes, it is a serious problem, the problem that those who are educated the moment they become, and become in some way about our cost, go where their quality will be recognised in terms of concrete consequences for their work. What should certainly be done is a system that would affirm or penalise the quality work of civil servants, and based on concrete criteria, the consequences of their progress could also be seen. We now have the situation and this example that I cited where no one was retired. There are no consequences for someone's failures. Just as in these legal changes, we have items that indicate that things should happen on time, but we have no idea what will happen, and probably nothing, if someone misses deadlines. When that system is clearly established then the best will stay inside it, not run outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47863	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47864	Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, when we talk about OLAF's findings, I would like to remind you of the situation we had about the rural development programme when OLAF actually found, after the Croatian fruit community's application, that at the time of the term of office of Minister Jakovina, there was an infringement, in fact, the sharing of financial resources from European funds in such a way that the money was shared with related societies which did not comply with European rules. That report was delivered to OLAF by the next minister, Minister Romic. I was the attitude that this contest was disputed because it was actually called under the rules that the disputed one should cancel, but then Minister Romic decided not to actually cancel the competition but to find some amongst the solutions. I am now interested in your attitude for the practices of some who will take place in the future. Would it be fairer if, when OLAF found that there were violations then such a tender was annulled, the rules to be arranged and to open a new tender or do you think that in future situations could continue by looking for some transitional solutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47865	I thank you for this question and for this valuable example. I'm also inclined to cancel the competition because otherwise when we say this something like that exists as a solution in the end nothing happens, nothing happens. That sounds like the first thing that's better for us because the lower costs, the smaller the penalty, the smaller the penalization. In practice, however, nothing happens and the problem continues to persist. When the tragic consequences of the "worse worse" for those who have not conducted the competition are right and when everything has to go from the beginning then it is to assume that we may wake up, so that we will do competitions that will not later declare unquality and that will not be able to fall at all. Because why OLAF if there are no consequences to OLAF's decisions? Also, what is our regulatory bodies and what is their connection to OLAF if they have, and I have given a concrete example, a different opinion from that same OLAF?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47866	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here in these few minutes, by discussing this proposal to strengthen this institutional framework for attracting EU funds, I will spend on what I think is the biggest problem when it comes to attracting EU funds, which is local self-government. I think we have a problem here that we need to look for a solution and when we look at examples from Europe, we'll find different solutions, from a French model that has almost 40,000 units of local self-government, not even 32 thousand with less than 500 inhabitants, but slightly different ranks. Why am I saying that? I speak simply because we also experience in the field, we who are here, have an opportunity to go around the field, face what we can see there, we will find an example that we simply have political animosities, that we have some private disputes, that I don't know, two villages or two municipalities don't like, so someone belongs under that municipality, and then can't achieve absolutely anything. I believe that the solution to this problem will significantly improve what we want, and that is to attract as much money from the EU as possible. If we look at that in seven years we're going to have almost 200 billion kunas, which won't come and fall from the sky, but we have to attract them, then I'm afraid we might not be able to make it through because we simply, we may not have solved the elemental problems when it comes to that money. A classic example, here, my place has 1600 inhabitants, they're called Ladimirites and they belong to the town of Valpovo, so we're a suburban settlement in the town of Valpova, and in the area of Osijek-Baranja County we have 15 municipalities that have fewer inhabitants than us. Simply with that division of regional, regional and regional self-government and local, we stayed somewhere on the tail. We have a lot of intellectual and any other capacity that we can put into operation, but that law at the moment doesn't allow us and I can say that since 1993, when this Law on Local Self-Government was passed, my place slowly, slowly declines and it's not as potent as it may have been until then, while the system and local communities were active, where every place was a legal person, where every place had its own property and with that property could have been available. What's good about this thing that we've heard here today, it's simplified these institutional frameworks, absolutely, we need it, without it we can't go any further. We've been listening here about examples of where penalization is something that costs local self-government dearly, and the question is whether they can from their own fiscal capacities that they have to pay certain things, so I'm happy to change that part, that we've seen some things and that we want to change that. What is important is these regional coordinators that are defined in the area of the Republic of Croatia, they are certainly an instrument that can significantly help small units of local self-government to direct them, to show them that some things are correct, so that they may not later pay for certain foames. The money that is here and we often talk about, and it is extremely large and important to determine what Croatia will look like in 5 or 6 years, puts before us a difficult task, that we must finally decide on the model that is most effective, which is the fastest, which will make Croatia the fastest to recover, not only through the National Recovery Plan and Resistance but in general, we must be better because we have all the preconditions to be better maybe than we are right now. So I'm an advocate of those here at HS who advocate that the territorial structure shouldn't go towards small municipalities centering alongside big cities, thus cutting off their little freedoms, the legal freedoms they had, and I'm afraid they'd go back in that part. We often talk about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. With all the shortages he may have had, he's proven to be a top-notch project. Why? Because he trained our mayors, the mayors, to write, to participate and to practice for what awaits them, here in this new envelope of '21. Until '27. I therefore believe that this project is good, but that it should be done as the entire local self-government should once again put on something that needs to be revised and the best solution that is best for Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47868	We have a few replicas. The first is representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47869	Dear colleague Ivanovic, best for Croatia, I will agree with you. You come from the ranks of the ruling. What bothers me, as these legislative changes relate to the Recovery Plan, which is a key plan that will determine Croatia's future over the next decade, not for one government. Why the false image is communicated to the public that the opposition is not constructive and that its proposals are unacceptable when, behold, I, who tried to see the final plan, could see my own suggestions in it. Here I am not talking for myself, but we are talking about the Croatian public who would really like to hear that there is also good quality and constructive work in the Parliament of all the players that are important in Croatia, not just us and not just them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47870	Thank you very much. I sit here with you in HS and share that opinion, I think that any proposal that is constructive, which is good, which can improve Croatia, should find its place in what will be a final solution, whether it is about laws, sublaws or anything else, and here you have finally said that part of your proposals, solutions, have been found in this comprehensive document, which is probably just proof that what the parliamentary representatives are saying here, so here, it has entered into that final document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47871	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47872	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Today is a debate on the Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds. He has nothing to do with the National Resilience Recovery Programme, so just for his fellow opposition colleagues, that we discussed it, that it had nothing to do with it. They're complementary, but they have nothing to do with it. What it has to do with is the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, here you would say that our role, so colleague Oreshkovic said the law was unclearly written, the law is written in the language of EU funds that impose regulations from Brussels which we cannot avoid, but it is up to us to interpret it. And one of the components is an integrated territorial program. The project Slavonia will be as well as the Banovina project, as well as the Dalmatian Zagora project, Lika, Gorski Kotar. So we have received extra funds for a special operational programme that will be a permanent monument to the work of this government and investment including in your area, the area of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47873	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47874	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm happy as a man who loves Croatia that not only Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as a region but also other regions in the Republic of Croatia will be included in what you've been talking about and I think it's good, I say with all the problems that we've had, our municipalities may not have been ready for some things at that moment, it's a lot of these six years that put things in place and I think these units of local self-government will be much, much more ready, and that we will certainly show this new envelope exactly what we've been doing these 5 and 6 years, and we will certainly withdraw a lot more funds with what I've said in my debate, that we have to give the opportunity and those who may not be legally or in any other way ready to play this big game game.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47875	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47876	Thank you very much. When you were talking about the role of local self-government units, I would like to hear your thinking, given that many of them do not have financial capacity as they could compete for larger project development, and then perhaps they are actually resorting to some projects that can be financially covered and that are not so attractive or too important for the development of an end. I can tell you this on the basis of what I saw, for example, that Banovina was delivered from the field, so I asked why there aren't any larger capital projects, and I've just been told by some mayors that they simply said with the budget they have, they can't financially cover the part that is expected of them. That's why I'm interested in thinking when we talk about this law to find a solution to help municipalities and cities finance or first compete, and then finance, projects that will really bring development to their end and people's survival especially in rural areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47877	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47878	Thank you very much. So, without fiscal capacity, let's be honest, it's not even worth applying to bigger EU projects because you simply don't have enough resources to participate in this. Now here is what we are about to discuss in front of us at some time, perhaps the most debate and bring a good solution, some of these solutions here are proposed by the Minister here at the Croatian Parliament, Marko Pavić, also had several ideas that mattered exactly what we're talking about. Because what? I mean, one village in five years is going to build everything he needs from this small utility infrastructure and for large capital projects there's absolutely nothing and then what he's building is going to do. So we need to find solutions, we need to sort out local self-government in ways that other European countries have done that faster and more effectively do that, and I think that's exactly what you're talking about, we're going to put them in a position to be small and involved in major projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47879	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47880	Well one of the key problems is exactly the capacity of local self-government to withdraw funds and one of the key problems is their exact size and very often for a very banal reason. Less municipalities very often, with some exceptions, have fewer budgets. A smaller budget means that when you get a project, for example for municipal infrastructure, your amount of this project is up to 8 times your budget, for example. And if you get 25% of the corrections, which is the lowest correction, you've gone bankrupt and then small municipalities in such tenders or don't show up at all, or if they don't have a very often political backdrop through which they've made sure that in the event of a correction, they don't have all of them, they only have those who have HDZ power, because that power is also at national level. So the units of local self-government like this, as the system is made, don't have all the same chance of retreating, those in the worst position actually have the least chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47881	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47882	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'll start with this last thing you said, of course, a 25% correction, I don't know which unit of local self-government with its capacities could handle it. What's good is that these are agglomerations, agglomerations have shown that when small municipalities and cities are surrounded by this environment and one of the largest units of local self-government takes this whole project, there are miracles in space. Here is one of the agglomerations of me, in the Valpostina area where, I don't know, an investment somewhere around 280 million kuna, of course a small unit of local self-government couldn't handle it, but when they get together and when they make good assumptions then it happens, though I'm saying this is, there's a lot of examples where projects just stopped and the question of how the city will get out of the whole situation because the correction is too big.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47883	Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Ivanovic, who manages the fund system, who controls how these funds are used is an extremely important issue in some EU members, indeed, on the other hand, the Adriatic has caused an entire political instability, a dispute within the ruling coalition, and finally here comes the dear prime minister, and now it works. Instead, it seems to me that this debate is rather constructive and you have made certain remarks, proposals and other parliamentary representatives. You said it yourself, and the government has seen something with this proposal that must simply change, make it more flowful and simple. It seems to me so much that this proposal, as part of this debate, also points to the fact that it is not perfect, but the system still works and can serve its purpose. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47885	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47886	That's right. Every system must do at a certain point and review and see where we are at that moment, as much as we can, more strongly, faster and better. But without the control system, there's nothing to be honest with. The rules are such, someone wrote them not only for Croatia but for the entire EU space, and we need to learn there. We need to learn the rules, there can't be a unit leader of local self-government because he knows someone somewhere who can afford some things that will cost him dearly the unit of local self-government he's leading. So here I think with what Minister Tramišak was saying here this morning, that her experience with EU funds is extremely large and here, after 7 or 8 months, that she sees certain things at the head of the ministry and wants here with the Croatian Parliament of course, to pass a law that will be the best and most effective for all of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47887	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47888	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with you that it is not necessary to take away the possibility for smaller units, including large centres, to decide by themselves what is most important for their environment and to decide for themselves which projects are significant to them. However, this problem arises that, due to financial gaps in budget size, they may not apply to all those projects that would be needed. I think maybe there's something we can come up with and do to make it more effective from the national level. However, what I am concerned about is that in the next period we will really have great financial opportunities for major projects, but it seems to me that there will be more problems within the time period of the implementation of these projects precisely because it seems to me that the construction sector will not be able to withstand it, and the public procurement procedures are also a matter of how and how long it will take, so I am interested in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47889	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47890	Thank you, thank you very much. Great question, at some point we'll have more money at our disposal than we'll have construction or other operations to start these projects at all and finish them off. That's one of the problems that we need to start thinking about right now. These may be cute problems to get along with, but they're definitely problems. So I think that the possibility that is also in some other EU countries where small municipalities, several who are close to each other, join together into one common body, and in this way I can safely and with fiscal capacities and intellectually attract more money to their units of local self-government, but the more I see this problem in the field that you've been talking about, and I think that we need to devote ourselves to it as soon as possible so that it doesn't become a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47891	Next is an individual debate, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State, speaking about this legislation we must indeed carefully and analyse the past financial period because this law will bring us an institutional framework for the use of RU funds for the period from 2021 to 2027, in which we will have EUR 24.5 billion at our disposal, and if we add more of that money from the National Recovery and Resistance plan, that is almost EUR 30 billion over a 10-year period and we cannot care how those funds will be targeted, whether it will reach the right hands and eventually whether we will succeed and spend them. Therefore, experience so far is also valuable and the analyses that are being done, I think it will be a good indication of how to put it in the next period, what our capacities of the institutional framework for the use of European funds are, and what activities we need to define to make even stronger and smarter use of financial resources in this next period. In this context, a capacity-building plan will also be developed for the use of European funds. And what I would particularly like to refer to is the question of the agriculture and rural development sector where, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture remains a managing body and also concerns those activities that were in the responsibility of the Agency for Agriculture and Rural Development, they remain in the responsibility of that Agency. What I think is important is a really good result that we had the opportunity to hear when we discussed here the use of EU funds where it is visible that, in the period from 2014 to 2020, 21 rural development measures were co-financed in primary agricultural production, agricultural and food and forestry sectors, environmental sustainability and the well-being of rural areas, and that the total amount of 96% was agreed for this, and the tender was even called for over 100%. In fact, it means 17.3 billion kuna, of which 13.1 billion kuna is paid, or 73% of the total funding from the rural development programme. During 2020 alone, more than 15,000 projects were agreed for users to have 1.8 billion kuna through 24 tenders, and more than 3.1 billion kunas were paid. Now, in the use of these funds we have different experiences, we have already warned in previous discussions that it is important to install these experiences in the future because it has proved that some of the rural development measures we have chosen have not been quite the happiest choice, that the time when we decided to use them may have been too late, that the administration has been too demanding and that it has simply happened that some measures are late in its use, but it has also been seen through the debate and the problem of pre-financing. And that is what comes especially in a segment relating to measure 5.2.1., that is a measure for the restoration of agricultural economies where I would urge them to consider models for our farmers who have suffered from economies, especially now in an earthquake, but also in other elemental disasters to come into contact and allow them easier access to these funds, but not to ask them to invest their own financial resources because if someone in the earthquake has lost their farm, if his domestic animal fund is destroyed, then it is difficult to expect that person, this farmer, has sufficient financial capacity. In that sense, I would appeal here and there, I would ask the Ministry to think about it, if we could include a pre-financing model where farmers would be helped to have these initial funds, to implement the project, and then when that money is returned from the Eu Funds or from rural development measures to then refund the state or any agency that would intercede there. It seems important to me because here's the next period. We have five billion euros at our disposal and we really want them to serve the development and productivity of Croatian agriculture and the preservation of Croatian villages. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47893	Replica, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47894	Dear Representative Petyr. I agree with the conclusion. A similar problem is often found in the science system when we have opportunities to participate in prestigious foreign projects as an insurmountable obstacle there is a fact that the project must be partly co-financed. It can often be 10% or some minimum amount, but if you don't have infrastructure support, and very often we don't have it, which could allow you to withdraw funds for that very purpose you're losing millions of projects because everyone says it's more symbolic that we need to see how many countries provide support and participation to give it a much larger amount of money. In that sense it's a very important question, so my question is to you, how do you think that system could be better arranged? Should there be a specific allocation of funds and a fund that would be for it or in some other way?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47895	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47896	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasdic. Well, I think that we can discuss maybe more models, what would primarily be important, and that's how this law also predicts through capacity-building plans for the use of eu funds to determine in each sector what the priorities are and then, in accordance with these priorities, I think it would be important to ensure that pre-financing. It can be allocated to a specific item or to the Ministry of Regional Development or to some agency, but I also think that a parallel process of talks with banks must take place in order to obtain favourable loans in this regard, so that it is possible and unambiguous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47897	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47898	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I think you've just been able to detect the issue of financial and operational capacity. We have already defined this issue on the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, and on the proposal of counterpart Kujundzic we will have one debate with the Ministry of Finance just to see how, the idea was for local and regional self-government units, to see how to raise their financial capacities so that they can and be sure that they will be able to absorb them. Next month, the committees will also be subject to programming, and I suggest that we may have a joint session with your board on agriculture programming and that we also call on the Ministry of Finance to see their thoughts and see how to provide such a fund for pre-financing and co-financing of projects in agriculture for the future period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47899	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47900	Thank you very much, colleague Pavic. I absolutely welcome the idea that, within your committee, a debate will be held with the competent ministry when it comes to finding a model for pre-financing and assistance to local self-government units, and I absolutely agree that, through a joint session of your committee and our Committee on Agriculture for the Exchange of Views, both with the Ministry of Agriculture and with the Ministry of Finance about programming in agriculture, the weaknesses we have seen so far in the system and some proposals for their improvement. In that sense, I don't know if you've gotten my message, but I've also asked for a meeting with you, and today we've met several times, but here's the dynamics that we can't discuss in detail. However, I think it is very important and I believe that our suggestions as field representatives and experience will serve the ministries for better programming of the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47901	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47902	Thank you. Dearly, in your presentation, you spoke about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, how do you comment that only 2% of the total funds are actually directed towards agriculture, and in fact, not even the lip will go into the recovery of the livestock sector or the production of meat and milk, and this is about production that can give us the highest and highest added value? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vukovac. Yes, we would probably all like to have a lot more money focused on agriculture, but there are certain restrictions because the National Recovery and Resistance Plan cannot finance what is already financed through the common agricultural policy, and through the common agricultural policy we have both direct payments and rural development measures specifically designed for livestock farming, so that it is seen that through these billions of kunas, which, almost billion kuna, are dedicated to agriculture, include what we cannot withdraw from the common agricultural policy, these are distribution centres for fruit, somewhere to be estimated to build 7. There is also the money for the commission, for the establishment of the capacity for the commission, and there is money for the establishment of the food bank that we also need extremely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47904	... The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47905	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, dear colleague Petyr. By entering a new financial period, the Republic of Croatia is opening up, of course, new opportunities. The 30m euros in the 10-year period are certainly huge financial resources. Do you think that, in the past, we have gained some new experiences regarding projects and programming and another question, is this an opportunity to recover our agriculture and revive all rural areas and, of course, I mean Slavonia in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47906	Thank you very much, Mr. Maximchuk. I agree with you that indeed, 30 billion euros is a great opportunity that we must use in a smart way. Surely there are experiences both in the field and people in the state service who can already assess where these weak points are, in which way they are set up according to the next period, that smarter, better programmed and that the best possible projects that can give added value are selected, in order to achieve what you and I advocate, which is the recovery of Croatian agriculture, the increase of its productivity because we are now at 29% of EU productivity, but also the survival of young people in the country, which means one generation renewal and, of course, the preservation of rural space. In that sense, the experience that we as advocates have in direct communication with people on the ground, can also serve the competent ministries to further program it, but the objectives may also be proposed, advanced and to give final and good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47907	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47908	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr. It's a good thing that you put into your presentation an emphasis on experience and analysis so far, that's what we're going to really need and need in the next budget, but also in the programming period. As we entered the EU, we entered the budget period, perhaps we did not manage well in some segments. Now this law and the preparation of the institutional framework, not to mention what you said, in the next 10 years, 30 billion euros, I think now is a slightly different phase, that we are now in a different position, that we are now a serious member who is definitely in one quality and prepared approach and way and through co-ordination bodies and through programming bodies, will de facto withdraw the most funds, so with all these experiences that we, and problems, normally, that we have so far, I think this is one new moment that will definitely bring a lot of good for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47909	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. In any case, yes, I think 30 billion euros can give added value and improve our economy, improve agriculture, improve our infrastructure. I'm always kind of a moderate realist, if that's where we can tell. I don't want us to be seduced by these big numbers, those high amounts of euros, I think that we have to approach this with due attention and responsibility so that in the end, when we do a report or a summary over 10 years, we can say that we spent those 30 billion euros in the best possible way and that we have really achieved one result that is on the benefit of our citizens. Of course, the experience we have will be precious to us and that from the mistakes that have been made, and there have been, there is much to learn, but I say, there should always be some way to look forward to optimism, but be aware of the obstacles that await us and that this work that is before us is very, very demanding and responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47910	Thank you. Before the debate is over, we'll take a 10-minute break to the wind. Continuing at 12 o'clock and 15 o'clock. It's 12.02 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.17 HOURS]] The first is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives and the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47912	Good afternoon, and thank you. So here I will look back at some of the problems that they are, or should be part of this law, but they are also part of a wider institutional framework for managing European funds. So, one of the first problems I want to point out, but based on the experience of working with EU funds, because the problem of programme discrepancies and not coordination. So we know that we have different levels or different ministries that participate in programming itself, and what happens is that when separate operational programmes are done, and especially later in the implementation of competitions under certain programmes, there is no coherence at policy and level. So, we don't look at competitions, or so far, the governments haven't done that, I'm not just saying that for the HDZ government, I'm saying that for all the former governments, so they haven't seen them as part of the instruments that implement a more comprehensive policy or policy. I'm going to give you an example to explain this better. Let's just say that for example. in Slavonia, we want to encourage the production of some cultures of agricultural and that we want to encourage that we are not actually selling a agricultural product but that we are processing it, adding value to it and that we want to export it. So that's some policy we want to implement, some measure in some policy development. What's the problem is that we don't put the tenders together in a way that it's known that from the Rural Development and Agriculture Allocation, it's funded, and that, in the irrigation section, it's funded, and that, that it has its own timeline, that ISF then we finance the education and requalification of the resources we need, that then the OPCKK comes from competitions for those companies or even startups if we don't have them that can add value to these agricultural products through processing, etc.. This is how programmes and competitions should be planned to be an instrument for implementing a particular policy, not a purpose for ourselves, so that we can say "here is the funding of 1500 entrepreneurs". We're great, but for what? As this contributed to our industrial policy, as it contributed to our agricultural policy objectives, as it contributed... So we need to start looking at European funds not as something out of the outside that we take, we withdraw, and then we spend, and it's just important how much we spend, but what's important is what effect it is on the implementation of those policies that we agree here that our development policies and those links are, we don't have, and we miss that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then, even if we had a 100% use of funds, it wouldn't mean anything to us if the effects on development policy were small because they weren't coordinated and because they weren't related to development effects. That's the first thing. The second thing, so in my work of course I met often with problems of correction on projects. The financial corrections are actually punishments, foams and so on for those who have made some irregularity. But I also want to tell you what an irregularity can be. I'll tell you, for example, that one city paid for the pens because they're in public procurement for the city's performers who asked the entire cultural monument for the contractors before they make an offer to check that their machines can get through the door into the part of the city that needs to be reconstructed, which is logical because it's a cultural good that you can't, of course, tear down the part so the machines can enter. It was an irregularity because it was discriminatory, for example, towards companies from other parts of Europe, and they got a correction. Correction was given to those who, for example, were given to you. as a criteria for reporting to a service tender they put in place to ask that a person who appears as a consultant has 3.g. EU funds experience. It's a discriminatory criterion, poof, correction. I want to tell you that the way we have treated EU fund users has literally been such that those who control them wanted to make an image of the strongest controllers in the EU, and that on the other hand they really paid for our municipalities, cities and entrepreneurs with adjustments that were really unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47913	Next final debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47914	Since I have not been able to present all the illogicalities with which the users of the European funds in the Republic of Croatia are solely due to the way our implementing bodies operate, I have to deal with the need to complete their exposure to the National Movement Representatives Club. Therefore, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture and Rural Development, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, in all implementing acts, has recently taken up the right to collect its own administrative error from the end-user and to confiscate his acquired rights, which is the highlight of irony. In all the rules implementing the Rural Development Programme, a similar formulation was found in the IPARD or IPARD Rules of Procedure, the Payments Agency will require a return of funds from the selected user if an administrative error is identified by the Payment Agency after the final payment. The decision to recover funds from the selected user will require the refund of the fixed incorrect amount. We have long warned that administrative error cannot be corrected at the expense of the users. In this way, a user who has neither by his own action nor by his failure has been sanctioned nor done any other form of harm. A mistake was made by a body. However, in the context of the party previously presented, it would have to pay back the money and the rights it purposely spent, which in most cases was impossible and this led some users to the blockade and consequently to the bankruptcy of the users. In this context goes the practice of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. According to the Constitutional Court's decision of 20 May 2009, the Constitutional Court is thus cited as being constitutionally and legally relevant solely to the fact that the errors of the competent authorities should not go to harm the citizens. The position is also taken by the European Court of Human Rights, which in its ruling against Croatia against Gaza since 17 December 2007. The Court considers that the errors or failures of state authorities should go to the benefit of the affected persons, in particular if this does not call into question what other conflicting private interest. I will also note how some richer parts of the Republic of Croatia have more development mechanisms available, including all sources of direct funding, while underdeveloped areas are available from European Structural and Investment Funds exclusively in the competence system at national level. This intentional discrimination leading to systematic deprivation of the largest part of the rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. The new European legislation on EU cohesion policy clearly recognises the need to balance the development of all areas in an effective manner. This is the role of the instruments for integrated territorial development. However, Croatia has some so-called ITU mechanisms that the largest number of underdeveloped units of local self-government cannot use and cannot enter them because there are no conditions. I remind you of the terms of our ministry. The question arises as to why these areas of the Republic of Croatia which cannot benefit from ITU mechanisms do not allow for another instrument of integrated local development led by the Community, such as the CLLD, which, in addition to today's European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, enables the integrated use of funds from other funds through local development strategies, hence the LAGs of the Republic of Croatia. It remains unclear why the authorities of the Republic of Croatia have so far failed to allow multi-original financing of the CLLD in the Republic of Croatia. This is an instrument that achieves a balance of application of mechanisms for integrated strategic development at subregional level. Well, the countries around here use it, and we don't. Of course we're always behind them and everything for a reason. I am pleased that in her reply to my replica, the Minister recognized the importance of the LAGs and stated her intention to provide them with multi-original funding and thus correct the injustices of the past. Reigning simply that now they did not want to give local communities more funds and more funds to manage, although everyone knows very well that local communities know best what they need and what is crucial to the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47915	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47916	These legislative changes are headed towards the establishment of different programming and coordination bodies, i.e. the establishment of their duties, which focus fundamentally on being a better system of control and absorption and realisation of EU funds. In this regard, if we carefully promote these legislative changes, they also tell us about the fundamental problems that have been present for a decade in attracting or primarily spending EU funds. I would have them here and during the debate I tried to sum them up on two things. One is an unquality control system, and the other is insufficient education of our employees in how to attract, how to make quality tenders, and consequently how to really spend these funds. In this regard, I gave two concrete examples of a project from 2019 that referred to the optimization of local self-government and which had a negative epilogue for Croatia in the sense that 45,000 kunas were paid to the complainant because of the lack of transparency and unquality of the public procurement process from our pocket. Another example concerned a system of decommissioning Poreč which, in accordance with the authorities of our state administration, had a positive opinion on its spending of European funds, unlike OLAF's decision, which decided to punish them for it. Before adopting such legal amendments, and in order for them to make any sense at all, it is necessary to clear up all the irregularities mentioned here too in order to get their epilogues, and then we could learn from them, and we would not only talk about what is being declared through party optics, as counterpart Pavić said, exclusively by success, but also through reports on the use of European funds, which we unfortunately received for a two-year period contrary to the legal provision where we should arrive at a semi-annual level, which would allow us to discuss them, to point out the shortcomings and that they are immediately implemented in practice. We'd see what the shortcomings were, we'd admit those shortcomings, and we'd learn from those shortcomings. So far, after careful study of recent reports, and in light of these legal changes, they can only notice that they are repeated year after year. We have been working insufficiently on education, it is unclear in these legislative changes, since everything that is fundamentally going to happen here is open to sublegal acts, what will be the new system of education, which means working on it, what concrete measures should we do to say that they justify such a legal framework, what are their consequences, what are the consequences for civil servants if they do not implement this education, these are all the open issues that we need for what we are specifically concerned, and in particular we will be concerned in the next period, and that is to use the resources that will be available to us. In that sense, I will conclude with what this legal framework is about, and this is the Recovery and Recovery Plan. Unfortunately, in HS, we had a late debate only on his summary, although what I pointed out as a positive is the fact that some proposals are respected. The fundamental one heading towards the democratisation of society and the empowerment of entrepreneurship is not respected. However, small shifts show that constructive work is possible in the Parliament. Therefore, I can only express regret that the same is not to be said to the Croatian public, which is being deceived by the fact that the opposition only criticises and does not make quality proposals. It would be much healthier for Croatian society and for the democratisation process if you do not already want to introduce a letter and an electronic vote, whether at least sometimes we send a message that in topics of national interest that exceed the individual government, there is indeed the work of all the representatives that the people have authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47917	Next final debate from the HDZ Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47918	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to finalise once again the arguments why we support this law, and also make arguments to certain thesis that the opposition has made. 24.5 billion euros are at our disposal, 2.5 times what we've had so far. It's the work of this government, and whoever says it's not the Prime Minister's credit, but that it's a formula, it's absolutely not true. It was one of the criticisms of the opposition that why we are now amending this law, simply because EU funds are being regulated at the beginning of the financial period. We now have a new period in 2021-2027 and regulations and rules in Brussels do not allow you to change the rules in the middle of the implementation of that envelope. In other words, we are now working by the rules brought by Milanovic's government, so I find it odd that I have any criticism from the SDP that the cost of the mind now has what they do in opposition and what they do in power. When they were in power they passed a law like this, now they think it should be different, it just doesn't. And when you're in power, you know you have to respect the rules and regulations they make in Brussels because they define the distribution of funds and there's a very small possibility of different manipulations of changes. The 24.5 billion euros is allocated to the National Recovery and Resistance Programme that we discussed in the Assembly and these 13 billion euros in the Multiannual Financial Framework, which is standard European funds. There have been a lot of questions, and I will absolutely agree with my colleague Bencic that eu funds should be an instrument for public policy implementation and that is exactly the step that this law will offer. So far, we have struggled with absorption, and these are all the countries that had the first envelope experienced in the struggle to absorb funds at all. But now it is very clear that the results that have been achieved, which is that we have agreed 17% more than we can spend, so 117%, paid 53% that not a single eurocent will fail. It is up to us to now use the next ten years to precisely eu funds and the National Recovery and Resistance Programme to be a lever of development and to implement public policies. And here, when we look at here, I was the Minister of Labour, so I'm just going to take an example of employment, when I came as Minister of Labour, and then we had a blockade of eu funds, we had this experience for Minister Mrsic, most of the 70% of the funding for support for youth employment went to SOR, or for employment of which over 80% were in the public sector where we took the young people, put them in the public sector for a year to cook coffee and return to the market. The change of public policies from temporary employment in the public sector to permanent employment in private has been launched by strengthening the promotion of self-employment. It is tripled from 25 to 75,000, and now depending on the sector and the area you can get 130,000 kuna for opening your own business and this has led to the triple number of companies opening young persons in the Republic of Croatia. All of this is funded by European funds and this is an example of how public policies are implemented to include in the EU funds, I believe that such examples will be increasingly, now that we have developed capacities that we can implement funds and also a strong incentive for capacity development, this law will be precisely in reducing red tape, simplifying procedures and digitising and congratulating the ministry on that step that the HDZ Club will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47919	Finally, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Shime Erlic will address.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47920	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. On behalf of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds and Minister Tramišak, I would like to thank you for the discussions and comments of the law. Let us only end with a brief summary that this law is the basis for the establishment and improvement of the system in the new financial period 2021-2027 and that, after the programming process has been completed, regulations will be adopted which will be more detailed in the function of the body in the system. I therefore note that the law at this time is not delayed as was the case in the debate because the programming process is not yet finished and neither is the fund regulation adopted by the common EU fund regulation, because it is late due to COVID at EU level. The plan is to adopt a common regulation in June after which the system will be able to be established and to proceed with the implementation of operational programmes and after which this law will, of course, be able to go into full application. And I get my full function. This law will allow us to make available to us the funds available through the VFO of 12.6 billion euros, and here I do a distinction from NPOO funds which is a different instrument and which is not covered by this law, it will enable us to implement these funds more effectively and give us instruments to legally enable all bodies to strengthen their capacities and that is the particular importance of the law, because you know that given the availability of the funds, our capacities are limited and that we need to work systematically on this. As for the number of people in the system that is also mentioned today, here several MPs, the fact is that the current programming period, we have an analysis of the current programming period and that there are no professionals in the system, is estimated at this time about 600 such people are missing but it is recognised and legally, and therefore this law is just talking about a capacity-building plan relating to keeping people attracted to the system, and now we are doing an analysis to work on the burdens for the next programming period, and thus creating legal assumptions that this is a problem, and that is why we believe that the law is just as important and just as you pointed out, that we are able to keep and attract people within the system. As far as OLAF is concerned, which is also a part of the debate today, I believe it is a subject that is not directly in the direction of this law, OLAF is an agency that is working to analyse fraud which is of financial interest to the EU and on this subject can say that prevention of such procedures is also a matter of education and capacity building, both the users and bodies in the system of irregularities. It is a key that is also a prevention for the improvement of this system and also guidelines for avoiding conflicts of interest have been created and a complete regulatory framework establishing a system for the fight against corruption at the Ministry of Finance is also what the EU requires of us is an accredited system, so a system that clearly separates functions within it and without it we cannot simply get funds from the EU, which is a great deal of attention, and this is a condition for accreditation of the system itself. As regards the issues of small municipalities, a complete new operational programme for the new programming period according to the government's decision has been established, it calls the Integrated Territorial Programme and it will in particular articulate the needs of local and regional levels and it is its strength and I think that these issues that have been apostropheeded today and here as regards both the financial capacities and the design of systems according to the needs of municipalities, cities, local self-government and administrations, will allow this programme to answer their needs in the best possible way, and there is essentially a new instrument of regional development that will be financed by EU funds. At first, the minister also answered the question about the LAGs themselves, we see LAGs and the Rural Development Programme system, complementary to cohesion policy and what we plan through this law. So LAGs will be able to access cohesion funding from these EU funds, so multi-level funding, but in the roles of users, they can also look for their funding opportunities for projects. So, generally speaking, the law will allow for the harmonisation of practice, standardisation and greater application of digital solutions in order to increase efficiency, interoperability and optimization of the governance system itself to European funds, so that I can conclude that here, given what we have said today, what you have seen, given the resources that have been made available to us, the programming that we are doing at this time, the NPOO that has recently been adopted and the whole series of other operational programmes that are now under construction, can say that one challenging time is ahead of us and before, in front of the bodies in the governance and control system, but I believe that here this very law will contribute to this system of today's improvement and to create the foundations of a more efficient system of implementation of European funds in the new programming period, which I believe is our goal. Here, thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47921	We've got a few replicas, wait, the first distinguished representative is Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I welcome this announcement from today that the LAGs will be able to provide more source funding, I think it is extremely important and we have also worked on this initiative as a Committee on Agriculture. I am also pleased to look for solutions to help JLS who do not have sufficient financial capacity to be ready to use European funds and to identify and exploit these funds in the best possible way. What I would ask you is a provision that prescribes a capacity-building plan for the use of European funds. In what time period will such a plan be made and does the ministry plan to provide some reports on the implementation of the plan's activities, whether there are also sanctions or negative points for those who do not stick to the plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47923	Thank you very much for asking. That's a very important question. A key part, perhaps not so popular for the public, but absolutely this document is very important for strengthening the body's capacity in both the system and the users and bodies themselves. It is just doing a full analysis for a complete system, it is regularly communicating every part of that plan according to the European Commission where we now have informal regular negotiations with the European Commission where they are looking for specific, special chapters and areas in which they want us to put emphasis on all reports and... from the previous period of '14-20. and this will be a key document which will also refer to the needs to improve the system as regards human capacities and these material and all other capacities needed to improve the system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the document is not finished yet, he is in the process of making, now this analytical part is done, of course it is done internally with all the representatives of the body in the system, but when it is made I believe that it will be communicable because it is a system that will carry out a number of concrete measures and activities that we will have to adhere to and commit to the European Commission to meet these capacities in order to improve these capacities and so that I believe here in June or beyond, depending on the negotiations with the Commission, the document will be adopted in parallel with the operational programmes that are... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47924	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in your presentation, you said this and this law are seeking to improve the system. Through an analysis of the current financial period and experience, we will seek to withdraw as much funding as possible in the coming period, and I think that the expectations of all of us are there, and especially our citizens are extremely high for this financial period. And it's also not all about us, so it would be good for our citizens to hear because we all want those projects that have not been realised so far because they weren't as ready as the construction of sewer systems, so we have dozens ready, including the city of Vodice, from which I come and many projects from Sibenik-Knin County, expect support from these funds, and also so that corrections and injustices, all those projects that can't be financed so far, such as the construction of social homes, nursing homes, kindergartens in cities and settlements of over 5,000 inhabitants, are also expected to support in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47926	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47927	Thank you very much for your comment and suggestions. Yes, the projects you mentioned are very important and they are just part of the body of national recovery and resilience and are nominated through it, and partly through this VFO. What the European Commission also insists from us is that we have a full strategy for each of our policies that we implement, so that for green policy through more sources of funding we have a full policy. Our interest is now green to express myself within the objective of the two Green Europes policy is just to complete the construction of all agglomerations in the area of the Republic of Croatia and this will be done through several sources of funding, both through the MPO and through VFO. It is also planned and envisaged by the programming documents, so I believe, of course, they are very complex projects, they are large, they are staged from previous to new. That's where it's important to increase capacity and be even more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47928	Another replica, the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you and the Secretary of State for your answers to the various topics that have been opened in this debate. I think that you have responded very well to these topics, and I believe that this proposal will indeed receive HS support, but later, of course, the part of the implementation, and also the work through government regulations, and then I would only add in this respect, if you want and appeal that certain ideas that were put forward in this debate, and there were constructive ones, were introduced at that stage, at that stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47930	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47931	Thank you. They'll be absolutely taken care of, that's all. We have already heard a great deal from the advocates of what needs to be taken care of and how to improve the system. When the regulation is completed, only then can the body system be fully designed into a function system, into the fifth unit system, fifth twos, and this is exactly what we will have to make sure that this system is more efficient with less bodies, less procedures and less administrative burdens. That's what's kind of been apostrophealed enough today and we'll absolutely have to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47932	Here's my thanks to the secretary of state. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on intellectual property fees, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 139. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The applicant's representative may provide an additional explanation. Dear Secretary of State Stipe Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of the IPR Law with the aim of reducing non-taxable duties and to improve the business environment and reduce the cost of economic operators. The adoption of this Act will implement one of the measures laid down in the Action Plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal duties from 7 May 2020. Accordingly, in accordance with the applicable rules for the implementation of the IPR procedure, which is carried out by the State IPR as a national competent authority, both administrative fees prescribed by the IPR Tax Act and the fees laid down in more detail by the IPR Regulation are paid, by the IPR Regulation and by the IPR Information Services Regulation, by virtue of the powers laid down by the Tax Act. The revenue from the administrative fees paid and the costs in the field of protection of rights and intellectual property represents the revenues of the state budget. Payment of administrative fees, which are mainly minor, from 20 to 400 kuna, mostly lower than 100 kuna, in accordance with the analysis carried out, related to the action plan, assessed as an additional administrative burden and cost to the economy. Following the above, it is demonstrated that the obligation to pay administrative fees should be abolished, with only the obligation to pay the costs. In order to abolish the obligation to pay administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, it is necessary to abolish the relevant provisions of the Tax Act with a retention and appropriate regulation of the provisions relating to the obligation to pay the fee. Since the name of the Taxation Act refers to the administrative fees to be abolished, it would not only be logical to amend its existing provisions, but instead to abolish the same and to adopt a new law of the appropriate name. For that reason, it is proposed to adopt the Law on IPR compensation which is put out of effect of the Law on Administrative Taxes and Detentions, i.e. to improve the provisions laying down basic questions relating to the obligation to pay intellectual property charges which must remain in force. The basic issues related to fees which are transferred in a clearer and more appropriate manner to the new regulation are the obligation to pay compensation, fixing and belonging to the revenue of the fee and the payment procedure. The adoption of the proposed law necessarily implies and the adoption of an appropriate new sub-legislative regulation, a Regulation on fees for specific costs and costs for providing information services to the DZIV. However, since the applicable fees are audited and aligned with the existing situation in August 2020, the new Regulation will not change the type and amount of compensation, i.e. only the formal technical regulation of this sublaw under the new law will be implemented. As shown in the above-mentioned content of the proposed law, it does not introduce any additional competences of DZIV or other competent national authorities or impose additional financial or other obligations on rightholders, but it reduces them. Therefore, the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional funding to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of a new law will contribute, in line with the objective of the action plan to reduce non-taxed parafiscal payments, to the disbursement of the economy of around 600,000 kuna per year, while reducing the revenues of the state budget by the same amount. The reduction of administrative costs in intellectual property rights procedures, the abolition of administrative fees based on the proposed law, cumulatively with last year's audit of costs, will contribute to the easier accessibility of the intellectual property protection system for micro and small entrepreneurs and the wider use of this system in the development of their business. Given that the suspension of the duty by adopting the proposed IPR Law directly contributes to the reduction of non-taxed parafiscal duties and taking into account the current need to mitigate the negative consequences of the Covid-19 disease epidemic on the economy, as well as the fact that the proposed law does not change in a significant legal arrangement but is a formal technical amendment to the rules, it is proposed that the law in question be adopted in an emergency procedure. Otherwise, this draft law took place, a public consultation of 30 days during which no objections were received, but supported its adoption was shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47936	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47937	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, as you pointed out yourself. So administrative taxes in the field of intellectual property rights are an action plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties are actually classified as one of the non-taxable duties that can be abolished, and therefore I welcome this legislative proposal, which is, of course, the more the suspension of these taxes in the state budget will achieve savings, as you said, from some 600 thousand kuna at the annual level, which will certainly relieve the economy, and, of course, take into account the need to mitigate the negative measures, the negative consequences of the Covida-19 pandemic on the economy, of course, here, and this legislative proposal therefore achieves one relevant effect on self-relieving of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47938	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47939	Well, here, yes, just as you said, the fact is that measures are being implemented from the action plan for discharging the economy. This is, last year the first DZIV measure was adopted with regard to the reduction of the fees, then those fees remaining in force are a reduction of about 700 thousand kuna without the fact that we now abolish these fees, and the fees are the second measure so that, in so doing, we have met the first and second measures in the government's plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47940	Next replica representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47941	Given that Croatia is almost tragically poor by the number of patents reported or recognised in the EU context, which I will say more about in my presentation, I am interested in taking into account Article 7 of the specific provisions of paragraph 2 in order to encourage innovation activities for certain social or economic categories, the specific reduced amount of compensation may be determined. Do you have any concrete innovation activities in mind and to whom might this concern? I will repeat, in terms of protection of intellectual property and even patent rights, Croatia is in a tragic situation relative to the rest of the EU, so this issue, and I support these legislative changes, is indeed being imposed as a priority issue for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47942	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47943	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, the fact is that as far as scientific production and patent protection are concerned, our results are not at an envious level. The subject matter of this law is not, are not projects and programmes that the Government makes in terms of financing or further encouraging scientific production or innovation, but the fact is that these measures will help reduce the costs themselves for individual applicants, easier access. What may yet be important to say is that the costs themselves have not changed since 2000. Perhaps another additional information, in the very model that has a world methodology, is not the methodology that we designed ourselves, but we adhere to it, it's taking care of those young beginners who suggest that the cost at the beginning is minimal, and in principle when the patent is realized, the protection, most often theirs, the real cost compensation comes from somewhere in the 13th year. Thus, it takes care of itself and gives support to the rightful scientists and promoters themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47944	Next replica, distinguished representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47945	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we're removing fees, holding fees, that's what we support. We do it in an emergency procedure, we also support it. Here in just 10 days this law has come into procedure in the assembly, today we will discuss it in both readings. Article 9 of this Law states that for formal reasons we must, the Government must bring, for which the Government is authorised, a new compensation regulation. I wanted to ask you, are these fees going to be changed compared to what they are today? You yourself said in your presentation that they were actually changed two years ago and that they would actually remain the same. It remains unclear, then, why Article 9 states that despite this urgent procedure, which will generally go smoothly, the government will need as many as 60 days for the regulation. We think it's a lot too much, unnecessary much, we're going to advocate in the amendment to cut that deadline to 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47946	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47947	Here's a thank you, Your Honor, for your question. Yes, the fact is, as I just said earlier, that the fees in principle haven't changed significantly since 2000 except last year due to the specific economic circumstances conditioned by this pandemic when further and reduced. Yes, on this deadline that you mentioned how well I was informed and you submitted the amendment, the government will consider what is the possible deadline after the entry into force of the regulation. In the introduction, I also said that no increase in compensation was planned. What is the fact that they are reduced, the government will consider what is the best solution when it is adopted, and therefore it is made by a regulation of such compensation that we can adapt to the situation in which the economy is at a given time and is particularly due to the threats that occur from time to time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47948	Next replica, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The suspension of this fee should be seen in the context of government policy in general tax cuts and parafiscal charges, but I think that this concrete measure should be particularly welcomed in the context of this particular objective you mentioned, so that the protection of intellectual rights is facilitated. And what's said before is that one of the key differences between the most developed countries and Western Europe and the United States is this huge number of patents compared to for example. to countries that have not achieved that level of development. He thinks there's so much to say goodbye to and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47950	Answer. Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47951	Yeah, well, here's a thank you to counsel Stier for this constructive presentation. We are precisely on the trail of these government measures to dissipate the economy and we are proposing the adoption of this law and the government will continue to certainly listen to what is happening in the real sector and what can be done not only for the real sector but also for our academic and scientific community in order to improve scientific production and increase the success of Croatian applicants for patent protection as well as for other protections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47952	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now that the clubs are coming, will the rapporteurs, excuse me, the board take their word? Dear Representative Maria Jelkovac, Legislative Committee? No, I don't. Vesna Bedekovic, chairman of the board, nothing. I open the debate then, we start with clubs, the first club is the club of representatives of MOST, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47953	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. We live in a time that has greatly changed the way of production, the way of funding, and the consequent and well-being of certain countries. Today's idea is everything, we live in a time of virtual reality in an inexplicable time, a time more in time that is determined by ideas. Who has the idea, who has the innovation, who protects it, today will ensure their country's well-being. I'm afraid it's a stranger to us. What's a patent, what's an invention? How important is industrial design, how important is copyright that, in the legal changes that have just passed the first reading, is also undervalued at least with regard to the protection of those unprotected, such as journalists, who must leave their rights to publishers in this regard? Who are the new Ivans the Marbles, who are the new Ante Romans? These are the ones Croatia needs, those who will patent, who will invent smart benches. Who's the leader and who's the obedient? Who's setting up trends and who's just following them? All this gives you an answer to the question of the difference between Croatia and the rest of the EU by the number of patents reported. And I'll tell you the specifics. In the number of European patent applications from Croatia in 2018 which increased by 40% as compared to the previous year as it grew from 10 to 14, Croatia retains 27th place from 28 EU countries 28. According to the number of applications compared to 38 countries belonging to the European Patent Office, we are 33rd, and by the number of applications in top 50 compared to the million inhabitants, we are only 45. So unfortunately, I must conclude that Croatia, or its citizens, does not know at all the concept of intellectual property, the concept of patent and its protection. Why is that happening? Are we stupid, aren't we creative or just don't know our rights? We don't know that the idea needs to be protected because the idea can otherwise be stolen at a time when the idea is everything, this is a fundamental message to be conveyed to our citizens. They need to know that their idea is worth keeping, and the state needs to ensure the measures and promotional activities that such a policy will potential, which will enable us to increase the protection of patents and which will not keep us here in the shameful last place within the EU, because, unfortunately, by following and other trends, this is not an isolated case but an indicator of our overall ignorance of our rights because I will also remind us at the level of our consumer rights, we are at the very last place in their evaluation within the EU. So, in order for these legislative changes that have been announced here to come upon fertile soil, and we certainly welcome them, of course we welcome the removal of the burden, but we also remind ourselves of the fact that we have proposed the same thing in terms of facilitating entrepreneurial policy and in all other HGK duties, in the HOK, but this has not been heard by the ruling. If you are implementing such policies as we welcome, then they must be comprehensive and must be seen in all other areas of economic activity where they will go hand in hand to entrepreneurs because this as a single activity is certainly not enough. And first, first of all, we need to say unequivocally how bad we are with patents, and then we need to do something concrete here and as an upgrade to these legal changes to change this situation because here you have that article that I asked about, item 2 with the aim of fostering innovation activities, the regulation of art. This law for certain social or economic categories provides for a specific reduced amount of compensation. But my question was, what are these activities, so I guess the authorities of the state administration and the legislator have some knowledge of what this letter is on paper, whether it is dead or there are plans that are beyond these legal changes that support these legal changes, innovative activities as they are called here, that will allow the growth of innovation inventions. So, where are these activities? Do we have only legal changes or do you have a handful of plans that you haven't presented to us, which will help us get out of this last place within the EU and to flourish our patent policy? I repeat, it is she who will determine whether we are leaders or we are obedient, we establish whether we are trending or just following them, and in the end, can we today in a world where the idea of everything is to live in a society of prosperity. In the context of these legal changes, since it is not highlighted within this legislative proposal, it is worth saying something about the statistics of infringement of the right of intellectual property in the Republic of Croatia. In 2019, when we talk about the situation in customs 827 procedures, there were shipments suspected of violating intellectual property rights. Unfortunately, only 8 proceedings were carried out by the competent authorities and 819 proceedings and 99 proceedings on the basis of the request of the holder of those rights. So whoever carries those rights needs to know that someone is breaking them to report it to our customs office, and our customs office itself reveals only 1% of the irregularities. The basic rights where intellectual property is violated and seized at customs refer to different boxes such as cigarettes, cigarette boxes, etc., to show citizens a little more clearly, that's 89%, then toys and sports equipment 7%, and then the rest. What's particularly interesting is when we compare 2018. compared to 2019. that we have as much as 45% increase in the seized and 42% increase in destruction. When we look at it in numbers only then we see how big differences are, in 2019 it cost us destroyed material 246,514,00 kuna, in '18, and in 2019. EUR 2,145,968,00. So the number of items destroyed is quite financially bulky. If we're talking about internal surveillance then we had it in 2019. 459 supervision, 27% related to copyright and related rights protection, 72% to industrial property protection. In 2019, we had 211 patent applications, 70% reported by individuals and 30% by legal persons. It's interesting if we look at the situation in the rest of the world, then we see reverse trends. Let's say "Siemens" and "Huawei" which are the main promoters, 70% report large companies, with most 70% of us reporting natural persons. Here's this little information that tells you everything about the state of our industry and our proactiveity about how much we can make a step to get to so much of the desired welfare society. Even those patents that apply, they're mostly in general engineering, then chemistry, and then electricians, come from natural persons, legal persons only 30%. In the world, the most large companies, we want and we need to be part of these trends, so we need clear innovation plans that will encourage patent reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47954	Next is the debate by the distinguished representative Vesna Bedeković on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47955	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. Director of the IPR, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on IPR fees, so in the first and second readings, that is to say, its adoption by emergency procedure. Namely, as already pointed out at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 7 May 2020. An action plan has been adopted to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties just to improve the business environment and certainly to reduce the costs of Croatian businessmen. Administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights are classified as one of the non-taxable duties that can be abolished and the obligation to pay administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights is prescribed by the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, following which the work and implementation of the appropriate measures provided for in this Action Plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties should be amended by law. In particular, for the implementation of procedures in the field of protection of intellectual property rights under the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Institute, administrative fees prescribed by the Tax Law and the fees provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be paid both by a special regulation or by a Regulation on fees for specific costs and costs for the provision of financial services to the State Institute for Intellectual Property and shall be borne by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the powers laid down by the Tax Act, and revenue from fees paid and expenditure in the field of protection of intellectual property rights shall constitute revenue of the State budget. Furthermore, the payment of administrative fees in accordance with the analysis carried out in relation to the action plan mentioned above, therefore the action plan to reduce non-taxed and parafiscal duties was assessed as an additional administrative discharge and cost to the economy and is therefore already considered to be a reduction of the obligation to pay administrative fees which are normally in the field of intellectual property at individual amounts mainly insignificant and ranged from 25 to 400 kuna and are mostly lower than 100 kuna, with only the obligation to pay expenses. In order to remove the obligation to pay administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, it is also necessary to abolish the relevant provisions of the Tax Act, in addition to the appropriate regulation of provisions relating to the obligation to pay the fees and, in particular, the name of the Tax Act, in the words of the administrative fees to be abolished, would not be reasonable only to amend its existing provisions but instead, to adopt a new law and that law of the appropriate name and, in this context, this proposed law, with the abolition of the existing Tax Act, shall be subject to the basic questions relating to the fees in the field of intellectual property, i.e. fundamental questions relating to the payment of those fees, namely to the obligation to pay compensation, as well as the determination and theity of revenue from the compensation and other related issues. Similarly, the adoption of the proposed law necessarily implies and certainly the adoption of a new regulation instead of an existing cost regulation, which is regulated in the final and transitional provisions of this proposal of the law we are discussing today. And I also need to stress that given that the existing fees are audited and in line with the existing situation in August 2020, the fees to be prescribed by the new legislation in respect of the type of amount will not differ from those existing and also, the abolition of administrative charges in the field of intellectual property rights, the conditions for business and the reduction of administrative costs for economic operators, but also for natural persons using the intellectual property protection system will be simplified, following which a certain increase in the use of the industrial property rights protection system in business by micro and small entrepreneurs is expected. As already explained on several occasions in the opening statement, the elimination of administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights prescribed by this law will contribute to the disbursement of the holding of approximately EUR 6000 per year and the reduction of the revenues of the state budget will be based on fees for the procedures carried out by the State Institute for Intellectual Property and on the items of revenue from administrative and administrative fees under special rules and on the compensation of the State budget, which certainly has a small or minor fiscal effect in relation to the total revenue in this item. For the implementation of this law, it is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget and its adoption is proposed by an urgent procedure, and in particular the reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure are justified, as here it is necessary to remind itself of the context of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Course Mechanism, which is also a key step in the process of introducing the euro into the Republic of Croatia, with measures designed to reduce administrative and financial burdens on the economy, thereby further simplifying administrative procedures and reducing the parafiscal and non-taxable giving and, of course, taking into account the current need to mitigate the negative consequences of the COVID-19 on the economy, the adoption of fees on the basis of the adoption of this law, directly contributes to the reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal giving, and, in particular, the current need to reduce the impact of the negative consequences of the COVID-19 on the economy, the need of this legislation, the adoption of this law by means of the need for the necessary in the need for the necessary of the necessary regulation, and the need for the need of the necessary of the necessary regulation, and the necessary to ensure that the necessary in the necessary in the law of the necessary in the law, and the necessary in order of the law, and the necessary in the law of the necessary in the law of the law of the law, the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and the law and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47956	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47957	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ma'am. Directors, colleagues and colleagues. The power, power and value of the idea or patent of intellectual property or industrial ownership, we have seen these days within this huge pandemic that hit the world when the great producers who designed their vaccines refused to give their patents as much as possible to the pharmaceutical laboratories or factories, produced the vaccine and thus made it more accessible to the global population. They just said no. Yes, the idea absolutely has its value, the idea is free to say, in the modern world, in the civilization where we currently live, something that has an extremely high value. However, the truth is, it's always been that way, there's this great anecdote, when Mr. Walt Disney, the king of animation, in his factory, received an inquiry from the audience unions who said we're doing three shifts and one month in your office comes a man, you talk for half an hour and we find out that this man has the biggest salary in the company, it's not right. Walt Disney said yes, gentlemen, but he's bringing ideas. So, the idea passed later, of course, through development, through engineering and as a product or service on the market, is something that has an extremely high price. Especially in the past few decades when we are aware that we live in brand times, we live brands, we eat what is a brand, we drink what is a brand, we dress up in brands, we fix apartments and houses with brands, we drive brands and, of course, everyone knows that the idea is transformed into a brand marketable, extremely expensive product. Let's put a little bit of time into the past and remember when we are in these places too, I will primarily talk about our Croatia, we have some brands, not only local, regional, but we can say European and global. The late Dr. Kaifesh, our pharmaceutical factory Pliva, and Končar, still existing Kras, Saponia, were all big names. Unfortunately, in today's competition and what they have lost to say by domestic, breath, they have lost power, they have lost a little bit of them and creativity. The old brands are mostly gone, those who survived can thank more the work of an individual or a group of individuals, but not the quality and systematic assistance of the state, that's for sure. Where are we today? We are in the times of the already mentioned Roman cars, smart benches, Infobipa and other brilliant young people who, unfortunately, show us this worrying statistics that 70% of the application to the State Intellectual Property Office is from the private sector or by natural persons. Unfortunately, we have left and we no longer encourage development in companies, we are no longer creating creative or any other departments that, in cooperation with engineering and other capacities of any factory, however small or large, can produce some large patents in the future. Where are we now? Now we're in a situation where we can all think together a little bit about last lunch, when you sat down with your family and friends, I try to always paint it the way you sit with those nice people at your table, please see what is produced or designed in Croatia. Almost nothing. Just the other day, we were doing an analysis, we don't have a Croatian plate, we don't have a Croatian glass, we buy dishes through social networks, we also naturally produced in some other countries, we lack that it is clear, systematic support of the state in the development of patents, industrial designs, intellectual property. A small man is trying to protect his intellectual property, and to understand each other, he comes across a very high-quality support for which I thank the respected lady. I went through the brand protection system myself two years ago, and it's all very simple, very high-quality, and I have absolutely no dispute about it. The House of Homeland Movement's club will fully support any savings that goes hand in hand to entrepreneurs and owners, and it will be a single kuna and, in this case, not negligible 6000 kunas. It's not much, but it's a little pebble, and that's why we're going to support, of course, through the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure, about it absolutely throughout the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club, there's consent. However, we must remind once again of the fact that this law that we are going to pass is only one stone, part of a heavy and large stone weight tied around the feet of Croatian entrepreneurs, and once again here from this place, I ask that we move on, to find all these parafiscal or what we would call them, false tax burdens, to try to at least in this way to enable the Croatian entrepreneur, to everyone who wants to live in this country, to work, to create creatively, and perhaps someday to produce some big world patents, to work, to move forward and to keep consciously in this country in which we as a legislative body, we have the responsibility and obligation to give him a good legal framework so that they can operate, that people, above all by providing them with quality life, retain in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47958	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47959	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director. This proposal provides for the abolition of administrative charges in the field of intellectual property rights and the reduction of administrative costs for economic operators, natural persons using an intellectual property protection system. Following this, the applicants expect a certain increase in the application of the intellectual property rights protection system in business by micro and small entrepreneurs and assess that the abolition of administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights prescribed by the Tax Act will contribute to the recovery of the economy of around 6000 kuna at the annual level. Since these changes are about a move that should relieve the businessmen, especially small and micro entrepreneurs, we in the SDP club, in this sense have no objections to this bill and we would actually be happy to see this discharge of the economy, small and micro entrepreneurs actually accomplish. However, knowing the work of the administration so far, all announcements about the disbursement of administrative fees, we are not sure that the adoption of this law will actually help Croatian entrepreneurship, economics or, as I say, ordinary citizens. We are still waiting for those great and concrete measures that would help them. When today's colleagues here in this debate, but also earlier this morning, talk about ideas, patents, then we'll all agree together that the idea or patent are actually a new currency on, not only national, but also on the global market. That's exactly what brings new value, added value. That's what actually lost the right price in society. Sometimes these people who have dedicated their lives to research and have actually come to new patents, even ridiculed in their environment because they are not understood. We would like to, and now go back to the previous agenda point, begin to value more what is innovative and what is creative because, through new innovation, through new creativity, we can come to the added value that we can then realise with the help of EU funds and it is not by chance that in both Croatian history and Croatian tradition and culture, a lot of innovators have actually been recorded, some of them have managed to protect their intellectual property, but perhaps some of the greatest inventions and patents of our generation and previous generations have actually stolen great celebrities in Croatian history. We would like the period ahead of us to bring out new Romans, bring out all those new young people by whose smart benches or other innovative patents we sit in Croatia. What should be pointed out here is that this one fee will cancel or reduce a total of 600 thousand kuna per year. On the other hand, this does not mean that there will be no new cost, that in some way it will not be favourable or that, as we have unfortunately cases, steal something again, there will be new employment, often party colleagues, so that we do not talk about being able to come with one abolition actually in some worse situation for entrepreneurs than we have today. We are not saying this in some hypothetical way, but rather based on the experiences we unfortunately witness in Croatia. To recapitulate, very clearly, therefore, the law announcing the tax reduction we welcome, any savings is welcome, any reduction in the burden on our economy and entrepreneurs is positive, but in particular, we do not expect from this measure that entrepreneurs will benefit greatly. Finally, the proposer himself states that the adoption of this Law will reduce the revenues of the state budget by the basis of the fee for DZIV and that it actually has a minor fiscal effect. Well, if that's what the Proposer himself says, is there anything more to be added here? We will support everything that is a reduction for Croatian entrepreneurs, but we expect more concrete measures and more significant savings that will create new opportunities for them, especially through EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47960	Thank you. The following are individual debates. Dear Representative Tomislav Okroša.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47961	Dear Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. The primary consequence of the adoption of this law will be the abolition of legal fees in the field of intellectual property rights and the consequent, simplification of operating conditions and reduction of administrative costs for operators and natural persons using an intellectual property protection system. This is a good decision because it will make it easier for economic operators to operate in the Republic of Croatia. Elimination of administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights will contribute to the recovery of the economy of approximately 600 thousand kuna. The same amount will be reduced by the revenues of the state budget by the basis of fees for the procedures carried out by the DZV on the item of revenue from administrative and administrative fees, fees under specific regulations and compensation of the state budget, which in relation to the total revenues in this item has a minor fiscal effect. This reduces the administrative and financial burden on the economy, which is an excellent signal to investors and entrepreneurs at the end of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47962	We have a replica. Honorable representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Okrosa, I only wanted to set you up with this replica because you come from Zagreb County which is a place where in our Croatian frameworks really happen and innovation and everyone knows about this very successful story of Mate Rimca, but of course there are more and I think it is important and emphasizes the effect that this proposal, I am convinced, will get the support of HS, will also have for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Of course, not only in Zagreb County, but throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47964	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47965	Thank you for your rep, Mr. Stier. Yes, that's right, in Zagreb County we have recently witnessed a perjanic innovative business, it's about Mr. Rimco's company, but also a series of interesting innovators and innovations that I'm sure this is a good signal and support, a release from these duties, and I believe that this proposal of the IPR Law is quite justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47966	Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, Honored State Secretary Stipe Mamić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, as we have seen through this constructive debate, I think we all agree that there is no problem with these measures encouraging an additional economy, and the key subject matter of changing this law is related exclusively to these fees, i.e. fees. The fact is that we haven't elaborated on what these changes are, so I would just end up saying, and whether through the debate, there's a lot of potential, so of course we're all in the government and the Ministry of Science and Education aware of the fact that the idea, innovation, scientific production, patents, as well as these criticisms that I'm actually statistics, which is unfortunately the sentence of Agent Selak, the fact that we're in scientific production. Well, of course we want to change that, of course we want to be better, and that's why we started a lot of activities, and these activities, I would say, are moving through changes in the education system. And even in kindergarten. So through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we have predicted many activities that will change today's situation, which will encourage children through the education system, for example, to increase the coverage of natural and mathematical high school, technical high school, and also, one data that has recently been pleasantly surprised me, which is the fact that the Republic of Croatia is, by the production of ICT personnel of 6th in Europe. Well, we're not exactly the last and the last, 26th, 25th, or I don't know which one. Through these many systematic activities that make up one mosaic, we will contribute to one longer term through changes in the system of basic education, the introduction of full-time teaching, through changes and an increase in the coverage of the gymnastics programme, in the system of secondary education, through changes in the system of higher education, with further promotion of ICT and STEM and STIM and many other research and development projects, as well as support for innovation of our system of economy that takes place through both the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Economy and the HAMAG Bicro and many other activities. So I think that this is one small step along with all the other activities that the government is doing to make these changes that these data that we're on improve significantly. We have heard little criticism in the context of what protection is patent, which our citizens, our entrepreneurs know about. I'm convinced entrepreneurs know a lot about it. Why? So because our Institute of Intellectual Property for many years as here, and representative Dretar mentioned, is, doing its job in the best possible way since 2008, and this is an applicative solution as one service to our citizens, often going to the stands in our high schools, colleges, organizations, giving promotion and, of course, to allow those who are beginners, especially in the start-ups to, for example, that is what is defined in this decision which, for example, the Government Regulation makes, that, for example, the physical person has a 50% discount for that fee. These are all of the measures that are part of a structured policy that will have to bear fruit both in the short and medium term and in the long term. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47968	One replica, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, you mentioned the importance of education. The whole system, starting even from kindergartens and indeed so, and when you look at both our schools and vocational schools and institutions dealing with technical culture, and then young innovators' associations when they go outside, they get rewards neatly and achieve successes. Now, the question is how to connect it to the real sector later, with the right lines of lending, with production, with the simple rentability of some projects, we cannot now, of course, talk extensively about it, but this is one step in eliminating this fee exactly in this direction and I think that this is also the link between a government that is looking, not just the education sector, not to see overall how it fits into the economic development of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47970	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47971	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, yes, the fact is that we have one model of governance with us in the real sector that so far has not been sufficiently busy with such ideas, it will be further through the support of the economy through these kindergarten activities, STEM, pa robotics, so this systematic competition so what we are, for example, one novelty that we are planning from the next financial period of '21-'27. Do, one national camp for gifted children. So this would be one place of excellence where we would allow children from all over Croatia at an excellent location, here, we still haven't agreed on the details, that these children don't have to go to hotels, that we have a central place where they could perfect themselves, exchange ideas, thoughts, that would be a place where we could even more easily perfect all our teachers, invest in them. These are all one complex, big changes that will, of course, work synergy precisely to achieve the results that we are doing, which we want to achieve, and in any case we are getting better and better than we are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-19-0.u47972	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m., Report of the Advocate General for 2018. Thank you very much for the beautiful and pleasant ending of the day. Session interrupted at 13.48 p.m.
