ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27252	It's 1 and 5, so now we're going to stop at this over and we're going to take a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. So first, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ban Vlahek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27253	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will dedicate my free speech to the health care of our citizens again, thinking that at this current moment it is a topic that we need to talk about as much as possible. I will stress again that in the entire system governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the most painful injustice towards certain regions, and this is particularly felt in the system of health. Taking another example of the Međimurje County from which I come from, I will mention that this is a county that had an extremely burdened health system in November and December this year when almost 60% of the county hospital was intended for COVID positive patients and without alternative solutions that some other regions have like other hospitals and so forth. In this system of superhuman efforts of doctors and all health professionals precisely our County Hospital Čakovec and the coordination of directors of all health institutions with the founder of Međimurje County, we managed to overcome that period. It was not easy and the health system sustainability award does not follow the example of some other regions whose hospitals received COVID hospital status and thus greater benefits for hospital staff. I would like to hear the Minister of Health say clearly and publicly by what criteria did the Ministry of Health grant the status of COVID Hospital? What is the limit to the burden of the health system? How many positive patients are there? However, I would also like to express my satisfaction that, in part, my engagement as parliamentary representatives and all other stakeholders, they have produced all the arguments that were presented in previous weeks at meetings with the Minister of Health, from this constituency when determining facts in Međimurje's health system that an initiative on increasing the limit was adopted. The amount of the increase in the monthly limit facilitates business but to a sufficient extent since it still does not cover the average total expenditure for employees at 14 million kuna level. I would also like to appeal to the Minister of Health to find, together with the Minister of Finance, a solution to the compensation of overtime in the healthcare system, one piece for the evaluation of the work of health care professionals and, in part, for the legal tightening interest for the whole period until payment. The challenge that must be addressed is the agreement to increase the base by 6% and the pay gap that is also expected. The Chakovec County Hospital only last year wrote off claims of more than 8 million kuna, leaving an age of over 27 million while the execution of over the limit for the last 3 years is about 38 million kuna. That's what's being executed and the funds aren't coming. The total cost of the crown crisis only with the County Hospital of Čakovec is 13 million kuna. It is certainly an injustice that must be corrected. I appeal to the system of governance, the system of decisions, the system of approach, to introduce new justice because it is the only right and true reform that our country must move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27324	The next club is that representative of Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marko Milanović litre will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27325	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that Croatia is currently at the beginning of the EU, but also Europe as a continent. With the number of vaccinations of citizens, and this is particularly dangerous, given our relatively old population that threatens unnecessary deaths, hospitalisation and high costs for our health system, and we see that there are cases of corruption, so that some members of the political and social elite are vaccinated across the line. It's exactly what we've been warning about all along. As Croatian sovereigns, we believe that Croatia must not rely blindly and uncritically solely on Brussels because such a policy, as we have seen now, can have fatal consequences for Croatian and our citizens. The delay in the approval of vaccines, and due to the annual vacations in the middle of the pandemic, insufficient amounts for a number of populations, amateur negotiations with producers who failed to convince them that the large EU market is a priority and all other errors by the European Medicines Agency and the EU Commission, are a real catalogue of incompetence and confusion of the Euroburocrat, although EU President Ursula von del Leyen himself admits certain mistakes, we believe that this is not enough, that even countries like Serbia with a smile look at Brussels's inability, and in Britain that we were just discussing today, the coronary pandemic has become the key argument of the Eurosceptics that Brexit was the right decision. I ask you how is it possible that in the midst of the pandemic of which tens of thousands of European citizens die, the EU is late with the approval of some vaccine for months and more? Is there a reason to be careful or pure incompetence and tactics because the United Kingdom or the United States are not some countries that would do so without sound scientific arguments? Why do pharmaceutical companies prefer to give their vaccine to others, and the EU is justified that there are victims of some bad intentions? They blame them all but themselves. Such a policy as to bring us back to some former systems where we were always victims of external enemies, thus hiding her own incompetence. We are not for forced vaccination or punishment of those who hesitate, but we believe that all of our older fellow citizens should already have the opportunity to be vaccinated if they want to, without being mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, godfathers of social and political elites. Unfortunately, Croatia is back on track, and as it usually happens, gentlemen such as Boras, Burilovic or Alemka Markotic's mother today are being vaccinated. Nor has the EU fulfilled its task of protecting its citizens as it could not protect the beginning of the pandemic. It is increasingly clear to us that our public health has been reduced to the private health of a political and social elite that is being vaccinated across the line and does not respect any health criteria. Everything culminated in the vaccination of the mother of the director of Clinical Infectious Disease and member of the headquarters of Alemna Markotic, and the question arises whether the relationship is a criterion or a treatment, triage, respirator? This is completely contrary to medical ethics, but it also speaks of the serious political responsibility of a person who has been managing our lives for almost a year and pointing his finger at alleged bioterrorists. We ask that clear criteria of vaccination be put in place and that it is finally made possible for all older people who want to, and not only those with good ties in the political and health system. We ask for the resignation of Minister Beros for total chaos in the criteria, organisation and acquisition of vaccines as well as Alemka Markotic from the position at headquarters as well as from the post of director of the Infectious Diseases Clinic which she shamelessly abused. We're asking a question, what's next? Are we going to find out that the families and friends of government members and headquarters are connected? Where is this line where we say enough is someone to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27434	The next Club MP will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Prkacin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Promise of debt honor, I promised yesterday that I'd pick up where I left off yesterday. So I agreed, and we agreed that no one in this country, in this House, would question the contribution of the HoS to the Homeland War. However, as an institution, HOS as a tradition, HOS as a legend, in huge problems, for what? For greetings for a home ready to date back to II. svt. The war. So someone else is sending us in and putting us in II. svt. War. And we, Hoss, as fighters in all variants ready to fight from a distance, madmen, and our favorite is a close battle. And also, let an opponent or rival choose a place and a time when he will, about what he will. If he wants to, I'll. svt. War, we accept debate and on the subject. That II. svt. The war began on 27.7., at least in our theory, the 27.7th uprising of the people of Croatia in Serbs, which was celebrated for 45 years, marked by the wonders of the mighty in Serbia, so the Croatian state came and a little celebration was celebrated, so it was not celebrated, so the monument was torn down by Croatian soldiers in the Storm, so it was restored, so the budget was set aside for these celebrations, for this celebration, etc. However, what was it really about, and what was happening in Serbia on 27.7. We Catholics and Croats, if there are any of us here, know that before the 27th, 26.7, it is the Catholic holiday of St. Anna. What they would say to me, the commanding saint, so the Catholics from the woodwork, and then there were, now they were gone, on two trains sat down and walked one to the Knin church, and the others were walking toward the place of the Blade because in the Knin field, the chapel was actually dedicated to St. Annie, it was the same thing in the Blade. Catholic Croats bless St. Anna all day, at night they were coming back. On the forest road, i.e. the forest track, surrounded by balvanas just as we were being overrun in '91. Mr. From the Knin team pilgrims local Serbs pulled everything out and slaughtered everyone, the youngest boy for 3 years, the most, one of the older Catholic priest Waldemar Nestor. This team that was returning from Ostrlje was a bit better luck because there was a lot better luck for the priest, Županić, or Županovic, who was spared the lives of both women and children, and the rest was slaughtered and continued, after that insane rampage and insane slaughter of Croats. 27.7. in the village of Jelino Polje next to Bosanski Grahov, Chetnik Duke Bran Božnovic roasts Catholic priest Juraj Lordnetic from Brac. There's still rampage around the neighborhood. As far as the uprising is concerned, the uprising is when the people join the army. The Croatian armies have no, ten natives in one place, covering the railway workers to repair the railway. One general rampage, a general blizzard, is not a mess, but a clear slaughter of Croats. They best said about this uprising by the Serb Chetniks in 1976 in Chicago marking the 30th anniversary of Draža Mihajlovic's death in his book of Memorial Book memories, where he said that we Croats are the biggest joke because we celebrate the day of the uprising, the day of the uprising in which a single Croat did not participate. The same is true of their Serb communist brothers who regard it as their uprising, and of the 7 leaders of the uprising, none of them were communists but all of them were Chetniks, so they said that Bosniaan Grahovo attacked and took this earlier mention of Bran Bognovic, that Ostrlj, Drvar, etc., attacked Mane Rokevic, that there was a member of Dane Stojsavljevic Cicvar, that there were two rights of the Serbian Orthodox Church of Samatija Mazibrada and Nikonor Kalik, that he was the Orthodox priest, Chetnik Ilija Rodić, etc. And so it seemed to you, and when you look at the statistics, the most significant one, when you see how many Serbs participated in the Partizan order, time expires, so I have to mention something else, you, so on. The rebels fired the first bullet on Italian fascists and occupiers on 19.12. that same year, so half a year after so-called. People's uprising. What do we want them for? Unfortunately, I'm missing 5 minutes more, I won't continue, but we want someone to answer these questions, to comment on this, this is the first time said in this Croatian Assembly. So we want to talk about it, and then we'll make it easy to agree on a greeting for home ready because we're in the Homeland Movement, primarily right. Right Right [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because both the political party and the military unit [[Thank you very much.]] Just the means... [[Thank you. Thank you.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27436	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27505	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman. There has been no unknown that for a long time our citizens have felt that corruption is exactly our biggest national and social policy problem. Based on what we can see in the media that's been happening in the last few days, I'm going to say that with corruption we've got two more, and that's a demonstration of force on the one hand and a loss of moral compass on the other. When all three problems come together in one, then it's an obvious sign that as a state, as a society, we're falling into observable ruin. We saw the demonstration of force by the way the Prime Minister explained the mitigation of epidemiological measures. Not his decision, the government's decision was based on objectively measurable, logical parameters and epidemiological data, but he said that in this way the government shows either his own gratitude or his reward to obedient citizens. Therefore, citizens are expected to be subjective and obedient, not active participants in democratic processes. A much bigger problem is the loss of a moral compass, and I'm going to say something about the moves of key people inside the headquarters. Today, the first constitutional session of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy was held, where we heard interesting data from research conducted by the Resolute Ministry of Justice and Administration, so on the question of citizens in which they believe that because of corruption they are most directly threatened, citizens responded in the area of health. And why am I saying that? Well, because of this situation where we saw that we really touched a new moral bottom by all those who took advantage of the opportunity to vaccinate against the covid-19 virus across the line. The question is, what's this all about? Whether about their own sense of power, whether about the lack of empathy, whether by haughtiness, whether they believe that because of their social political position and are invited to achieve some privilege which unfortunately is not enabled by all, it is difficult to conclude. But judging by who all the people who have been publicly called for such an inappropriate act, I think it is clear where this problem is caused. Health Minister Willi Beroš said that all those who have achieved the right to vaccination at the expense of others must bear a certain moral responsibility. And I'm asking a question, but rhetorically, how do you expect moral responsibility from a group where no morals and even less moral responsibilities exist? The degradation of moral values has actually begun since the government's decision to send a clear message to the entire country, who are granted privileged status, by showing the exercise of vaccination over the link. And that's when I said, along with my co-workers from the party and the club who are MPs in this House, that this is an obvious example of how HDZ corrupts institutions. By sending a message that the first order of vaccinations are parliamentary representatives, councillors, judges of senior courts, we have sent a message that we share this society and citizens on those whose every opportunity is available across the line compared to everyone else. Corrupt institutions, corrupt leaders in institutions create a corrupt society. In order to keep at least a minimum of dignity and institutions and key people working in them, so that we can continue to suppress the spread of the pandemic of the coronary virus minimum from which we can begin is that, as one of the speakers said before me, we are looking for resignations from the key people we have tasked with fighting with this pandemic. So, the first step would be to resign Mrs. Alemka Markotic not only to her role in the work of headquarters but also to her role in the Infectious Hospital, and also to Mr. Krunoslav Kapak must resign both at headquarters and at HZJZ. But it's not enough to stop at that, I think that the resignations on our public duties should be submitted to all those we've seen found in this one inappropriate act, and it's up to us in HS to find a way to ensure that these resignations are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27506	Thank you. We're going to do this here long session already takes us a while so we're going to take a little break to clear the room and see you again in 15 minutes or so. 13.45 then we'll proceed naturally with the point we started. It's 1:30 p.m. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which Ljubica Lukacic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u27607	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk about sports in the Republic of Croatia today. In fact, we all know how important sport is, so I am pleased today to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been since 2016. on here a lot invested in sports in the Republic of Croatia. Here is the Minister of Tourism and Sports Nikola Brnjak, based on the decision to award funds to roof sports associations, signed contracts worth 224 million kuna, which will be signed by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in 2021. to finance sports activities. So, at this challenging time, at the time of the pandemic, the Ministry found funds to finance all sports activities of all roof associations, sports associations. So there will be financed this year's Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo. It should be noted that this year the Olympic Games of Deaf Persons are also being held and the ministry has provided money for this purpose. In addition to top-notch sports, the ministry has provided funds for both school and academic sports. When we talk about sports for people with disabilities, I want to point out that this school and academic sport is also extremely important. It is important that girls and boys are involved in sports activities in order to maintain their health. In fact, some will because of their sport activities because they are engaged even in sports that many would not even say is a sport, many will bring a better medical condition or at least keep it the way it was before then. Therefore, people with disabilities are extremely grateful to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as to this difficult situation when it may not have been expected to be able to finance just all the programs that are imagined, which has provided the means to ensure that all athletes' sport in the Republic, and then athletes with disabilities are able to finance themselves. Athletes with disabilities from all competitions return with medals and this is the best way to thank their country for allowing them to play sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33624	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to suggest that you do it in accordance with an article. 255 Rules of Procedure, since written objections at the proposed points were not, there was no agenda, then to accept the addition of the agenda of the 6th session with 2 new points. The first is the National, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the National Council for Sports, b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the National Council for Sports, 2) Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments-HAMAG Bicro for 2018 and 2019. The applicant is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means, as I said, since it is in accordance with Article. 225. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed points of supplementing the agenda were not available, and I would like to conclude that these proposed items are included in the agenda of the 6th session, so we can move to the first point as we have foreseen today's work plan. The first item will be: - Information on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; it is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Honored Andreja Metelko-Zgombic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Vice Presidents, Your Honor, and Madam Representatives. As regards today's debate on the agenda, let me present to you in the main lines the results of the negotiations between the EU and the UK of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual partnership and cooperation after 1 January 2021. I would like to remind you that I would like to remind you that the information on the completion of the negotiations that the Government now adopted at its session on 30 December of last year. On this occasion, the information itself has been made public together with the texts of the agreement concluded between the EU and the UK in the Croatian language, and so on, with the attachment of the information itself, the proposal has been made, i.e. the Council's decision on the signing of these agreements itself and their provisional application. In fact, the relationship between the EU and the UK has been regulated since 1 January of this year through three separate agreements. Trade and Cooperation Agreement, Data Security Agreement, Nuclear Energy Agreement. In addition to the three agreements, the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement remains in force from the European Union, in particular some parts of it will permanently regulate relations between the UK and the EU. The political agreement between the EU and the UK was reached on Christmas Eve last year, so about 4 years since the UK referendum itself and only 9 months since the official opening of negotiations on the future relations agreement, so the political agreement was reached on Christmas Eve last year, and all three agreements were signed after 30 December of last year. During these negotiations, the Agreement on Trade and Cooperation was agreed as the most comprehensive free trade agreement the EU has with a third country. The Trade and Cooperation Agreement, in addition to trade provisions, also contains chapters on cooperation on internal security, justice and coordination of the social security system, which has never been the case in another EU agreement with a third country. The negotiations took into account the geographical proximity of the UK and its historical and economic intertwinations with the EU and its members. In fact, the EU is the largest trading partner for the UK, and the UK is the third partner for the EU, after the United States and China. The UK's economies are still allowed access to the EU market, but with rules relating to social and labour rights, environmental protection and taxation, all the prerequisite is that there is no unfair competition between EU and UK operators. This has been breached by the provisions which have been particularly demanding to be agreed and have been the last ones agreed in this Agreement. The new Trade and Co-operation Agreement provides for the possibility of continuing trade without quotas and customs duty between the EU and the UK if products comply with the rules of origin. So the origin must be in the UN or the UK. In addition to trade in goods and services, the Agreement includes a number of other areas which are in the interest of the EU and its Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, such as investment, competition provisions, state support, tax transparency, air and road transport, energy, sustainability, fisheries, data protection and co-ordination of the social security system. Cooperation in the field of foreign, security and defence policy is not included in the Agreement because the UK did not want this, but the EU has shown that it is open to continued close and constructive cooperation in areas of common interest and in these topics. It is equally important for the Republic of Croatia to find an appropriate framework and co-operation arrangement that will allow further engagement and contribution of the UK, a common foreign, security defence policy and some possibility of linking with European security architecture to the mutual benefit of this common synergy. The second agreement is a data security agreement. It was signed with the aim of enabling a secure exchange of classified data between EU institutions and Member States and the UK. The third agreement is the Nuclear Energy Agreement, and it allows for continued cooperation in the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes with respect to international standards. As regards the very process of negotiations on future relations and what preceded it, negotiations on these new agreements with the UK began only after the entry into force of the UK's withdrawal agreement from the EU on 1 February of this year, when, therefore, on 1 February 2020, it was just the date when the UK ceased to be an EU member. The withdrawal agreement itself managed to regulate the different aspects related to the withdrawal of the UK from the EU, including the comprehensive and sustainable protection of EU citizens' rights, which settled in the UK by 31 December of last year and the same protection to citizens, citizens of the UK in the EU or in the Member States. This Agreement also sets out the financial commitment of the UK arising from UK membership in the EU and participation in various EU programmes, including in this period until 31 December 2020, and in this period which it ceased to be a member of the EU, but continued to participate and apply the acquis during the transitional period and act as a member, except that it did not participate at the table, did not participate in the work, in the EU Council, in the work of other EU institutions. What is particularly agreed by the withdrawing agreement is also the protection of the existing soft border regime between Northern Ireland and Ireland in the context of the preservation of the peace achieved in Northern Ireland. The agreement also envisaged, as I mentioned, the duration of the transitional period until 31 December 2020 with the aim of allowing sufficient time for the adjustment of state administrations, economics and citizens to the fact that the UK is withdrawn from the EU and to conduct negotiations on future relations in that time. The negotiations on future relations were led on behalf of the UN by the UN chief negotiator, Mr Michael Barnier, with the support of the EU Commission's expert services. The mandate given by the Council to the main negotiator and the Commission for the conduct of the negotiations was adopted at the General Affairs Council meeting on 25 February 2020 under the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. There, I had the personal honour and opportunity to chair the General Affairs Council then, when we set the mandate for negotiations on future relations, it was also the last physical meeting of the Council in that format last year. The negotiations began on 2 March 2020 and during the Croatian Presidency held 4 rounds of negotiations, and then in the second half of last year another 5, so there were in total 9 rounds of negotiations that resulted from these three agreements that are now ahead of you. The Republic of Croatia has actively participated, so in the work of the Council when it comes to these negotiations and in relevant preparatory bodies, I say for the first 6 months we even chaired the EU Council, and then we actively participated, followed and discussed the progress itself, the tactics for further negotiations. RS Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic participated in EU council meetings, where the overall process of negotiations was directed at the highest level. Thus, the Croatian Presidency can remain remembered after leaving an EU Member State, however, this exit has been achieved in one orderly manner, with clear conditions and legal certainty and predictability as provided for by the UK withdrawal agreement from the EU, and also during our term of office a mandate has been established and negotiations have started on new contractual relations which are now applicable since 1.1 this year. As regards the application of the agreement, all three agreements are in provisional application from 1 January of this year and thus ensure that the EU and the Member States and the UK, at the time that this transitional period expired on 31 December of last year, have a legal basis and a legal framework for the continuation of mutually regulated relations. The agreements will come into force when all language versions are completed and confirmed, i.e. language versions in all EU official languages, and in the case of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and the Data Security Agreement, when the EU Parliament gives its consent to these two agreements. The UK, in turn, has already completed all the necessary procedures for the entry into force of these three agreements in relation to the UK and has already incorporated those three agreements into its implementing legislation. On the part of the EU, the EU Parliament has launched a debate on certain thematic committees that are... Adherence-making stores. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legal and language drafts of all the official texts of those three agreements in the official languages of the Member States are expected to be completed by the end of April, so that, at this point, the formal entry into force of those three agreements is envisaged on 1 April of this year, and until then, by 30 April, those three agreements should be applied provisionally. In order to establish and confirm the willingness of the parties to continue the provisional application of those agreements by the end of April of this year, a formal decision should also be taken by the Partnership Council established by these agreements. The Member States are not parties to these three agreements, but is an EU party as it regulates issues that are within the competence of the EU. This was particularly noteworthy, namely, to ensure that we had enough time to complete these necessary procedures so that these agreements could enter into force. The agreement itself has established a very complex structure that will take care of the good implementation of all these agreements, there are a number of joint bodies, we have a Partnership Council, and then special trade and thematic committees and various working groups. In the event of a breach of the Agreement, the EU Commission, on behalf of the Member States, will be able to take corrective and other measures on behalf of the EU, and the Agreement itself provides for the same settlement of disputes through joint bodies and through one arbitration panel. When it comes to changes for citizens and businessmen from 1 January of this year, it should be said that even with agreements agreed, we must be aware that from 1 January of this year, there have been a number of changes in relations, since 1 January of this year, the UK is now a third country and is not part of the EU's single market. It ended the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, which marks only the internal market. Although trade continues without quotas and customs duties, the necessary border controls are being carried out when entering the EU market. In addition, the UK significantly amended its legislation and introduced a new system for imports from the EU and gradually introduced controls, customs, veterinary, sanitary, phytosanitary and other requirements when importing products into the UK with a view to placing them on the market. HGK has provided a number of seminars on the topic of these newspapers, and many useful information can be found on the website of the Croatian authorities, as well as on the EU Commission's website and UK governments. As regards the movement of citizens, the UK introduced a new system for the entry and stay of foreigners and since 1 January '21. and Croatian citizens may travel to the UK without a visa for a short-term tourist or business visit which is not longer than 6 months. By 1 October 2021 the entry will be possible with a valid ID card or valid passport, and after 1 October 2021 only with a valid passport. Nationals of the Republic of Croatia who intend to stay in the UK for more than 6 months for the purposes of work, studies or if they wish to live in the UK should submit an application for a visa with the appropriate payment. Similarly, in order to stay for the purpose of work, it is necessary to meet certain benchmarks of the score and the same, and students, since the UK no longer participates in the exchange of Erasmus, have also, a special system through which it will enter the UK. To remove the unfavourable consequences of UK exit from the EU, the EU will also provide 5 billion euros to Member States through the Brexit adjustment reserve and Croatia is also expected to receive some financial support, somewhere around, so negotiations are still under way and the financial support itself will be measured according to the intensity of economic contact between each Member State and the UK. As regards the status of citizens, the withdrawal agreement itself has established a special category of EU citizens and UK nationals in EU Member States that will retain all rights as they had them while the UK was part of the EU. This condition is that these persons had a regulated status in the UK or in the Member States until 31 December of last year. Nationals of the Republic of Croatia must ensure at the latest by 30 June of this year that the status for which the British government has established a special system and Croatian citizens who can prove that they have an uninterrupted stay in the UK of 5 and more years is immediately granted a settled status, therefore fully regulated permanent status, and, if necessary, if necessary, they will then have the right to remain in the UK and to obtain rights over the period necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33626	Thank you very much, ma'am. Secretary of State, please remain in place because we have quite a series of replicas, almost all present in the hall are reporting for replicas, so let's start in order. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33627	Thank you very much. State Secretary, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic once said that Prime Minister Cameron had made a mistake by calling the referendum, and we know that the UK is an old democracy and that it is the will of most UK citizens and peoples that have left the EU. This scandalous statement is a terrible message, an anti-democracy message, a message against the will of most citizens, I'm really interested in how you comment, that statement by the Croatian prime minister, and we're not surprised that other countries are looking at it because simply this government has spit out referendums in person, we need to know that our people are interested in what is in Croatia, as the People's Initiative decides, where the Election Law should be amended, and the Istanbul Convention where people have collected 400 thousand signatures, and Andrej Plenkovic has spit in the face... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33628	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33629	Thank you very much for this question. I would just like to say that many Member States have made a very open statement of regret to the fact that the citizens of the UK, citizens of the UK, have decided to leave the EU in their referendum, a major challenge has been and may still exist in the UK itself, but this is a democratic way of deciding and the Member States, of course, must ultimately accept and accept such a single decision and what we have done is to ensure that, when the UK comes out of the EU, that it has then come out in one orderly way with the payment of all the necessary financial contributions and the regulation of the status and protection of citizens' rights and we have established a good framework for future partnership relations that we are talking about here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33630	Thank you very much. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bull, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33631	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable State Secretary has been injured by an article. 238 because she did not answer my question, the anti-democratic behaviour of Andrej Plenkovic and the people of the UK, and And according to the people of Croatia, I ask for an answer. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33632	Read the Rules of Procedure at last, and I am your foundation. 239 says the warning. The next replica is the respected representative of Mark Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33633	Thank you, Your Honor, the President, the Honorable Secretary of State. Quitting the UK is a precedent, so I would say a red tape conglomerate called the EU. There is only one thing that is clear in the forest of information about UK exits from the EU, which is that there is no EU exit plan for any of the EU members. My question to you would the UK be able to come out at all if they introduced the euro as their official currency when entering?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33634	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33635	I'd like to ask you, can you repeat this, were they able to get out if they had introduced Of course, you would also be able to come out and it would certainly be more demanding, however, all of course possible, it only takes one real good way, to ensure the very conditions of exit. [[Intruder: Would the UK be able to get out of the EU at all if they introduced the euro as their currency?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33636	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33637	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, as you mentioned today, it's been agreed, so it's possible to choose as far as constitutional and declarative residence is concerned, if we may say so. One is in the UK and the other is completely elected to the Republic of Croatia. It is estimated that there are about 8,000 Croatian citizens in the UK. in the UK, and about 1,000 in Croatia. So what does that mean for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will be in the UK, and what does that mean for the citizens of the UK who will be in the Republic of Croatia? And also, a little bit about the visa system that I see that, as far as working citizens, various countries of Europe have different access rules, i.e. payments, visa payments to Britain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33638	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33639	We were really very pleased to see that during all negotiations, until the very signing of all agreements, on the side of the Member States and the EU, unity was achieved all the time and the equal treatment of all Member States was always ensured in the same way as the UK, in the same way as our citizens. When it comes to Croatian citizens in the UK, at the moment 8 thousand have already regulated their status in a way that they have submitted a request, the UK has established a special scheme, an electronic certificate is obtained, and therefore our citizens will continue to stay there neatly, so this is a permanent solution. The UK has, as you have well noticed, established a constitutional system, where our citizens had to apply. Croatia, as some Member States have decided Declaratory system. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33640	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state, whatever anyone thought of Brexit, he happened and like any divorce, and so is this, he's sick, expensive and long-term and it's been seen in the course of the negotiations as they looked. Three agreements have been concluded, one of them is the Trade Agreement. What interests me is how many standards are represented when we talk about trade because we know that the EU has a problem with the contracts it has concluded with the 3rd countries, where many groups, and among them farmers, complain that the standards that need to be met in the EU are not respected in those 3 countries and the revision of these agreements is required. So, was the conclusion of a trade agreement with the UK, which was recently an EU member, insisting on respecting these standards that our citizens and producers must meet, for example, since we know that the UK has been looking for fit wars in China for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33642	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33643	I can truly assure you with great certainty that it was a terrible thing to worry about, to ensure equal standards and equal conditions for our farmers, for our farmers, just like those of Great Britain, and that was one of the questions that was at the heart of the negotiations themselves. In fact, the EU, as you said, has high standards and wants to ensure that products that will come to our market in the future have the same standards, and also wants to ensure that manufacturers in the VB have to act under the same conditions, respecting those standards, not to come into a more favourable position. We are aware that the UK is very close, geographically, historically very integrated into the EU economy, so it was particularly important for us to ensure this so-called. level playing field, so the same conditions This will be used by our producers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33644	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33645	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, thank you for your report. I'd like to add 3 points. First, when we look at the first data on trade between the UK and the UN after Brexit, we can really conclude that Brexit has weakened Europe. Secondly, despite this finding, we accept, of course, the UK's decision, but we particularly welcome the fact that this was done on an agreed basis, that it was done during the Croatian Presidency, because that is how the consequences of Brexit have been mitigated. And thirdly, perhaps most importantly, although of course we accept the UK's decision, this British path is not a Croatian path. We're simply not the former empire, we don't have a former colony where we can preferably trade. Our way of development is within the EU, but also after Brexit, of course, it is our interest to develop bilateral relations with the UK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33646	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33647	I would completely agree with this finding. The high value of these agreements has been established by one framework for future partnerships. In the future and at EU level, we may conclude additional agreements, and as a Member State, the Republic of Croatia may also conclude certain agreements with the UK which are not covered by these agreements, and even in matters covered by this agreement under certain conditions. And definitely the way for the development of the Republic of Croatia is within the EU because through the EU we have one framework for economic development on the one hand, and for economic business with the whole world through contracts that the EU has concluded with third countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33648	The next replica is the respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33649	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State. At the end of your presentation, you tried to say a little bit about residence status, that is, the right of citizens to freedom of movement and to fellow Cappelly in response, but it always sort of remained unfinished. Does this mean that there was no reciprocity in the rights and obligations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of the British citizens because it seems to me that our citizens still have to go through some more complex procedures in order to achieve the right to residence, status, precisely related to this declarative system that we have chosen, where, in fact, they only have to extend the status that they had so far under the agreement, while our citizens in Great Britain, they have to ensure that their status is confirmed through the British government and then, depending on the number of years they have spent, up to 5 or over 5, that will define their residence status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33650	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33651	I couldn't agree with this finding. Fully guaranteed reciprocity and equal rights. In fact, the agreement itself provides, on withdrawal, for states to be able to choose either constitutional or declarative status. It is the constitutional one where the application must be submitted and then the existence of that right is determined, and it is the declarative one where no application has to be made, however, and in the declaratory it is necessary to submit a certain application to the Member State at a certain point, e.g. in the Republic of Croatia, citizens of the UK are required to issue new residence permits by 30 June 2021 confirming their status as users of this Agreement and that rule has just been incorporated into this law, adopted on amendments to and additions to the Law on the Citizenship of the Member States of the European Economic Area adopted in this Parliament. So there's equal treatment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33652	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your presentation. At yesterday's debate on our committees, we discussed security among other things. By going to the United Kingdom, the EU, one of the things that the EU is losing is precisely in the field of security. Great, the United Kingdom is part of the Five Eyes alliance and its departure from the EU and its member states in some way lose access to the alliance. What I was interested in was thinking about further security cooperation with the United Kingdom and what are these thoughts, especially from the perspective of our government, but were there discussions on the possible future and at European level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33654	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33655	Yes, thank you for this question, certainly close cooperation on security issues, as well as on defence issues, but security is certainly on the agenda of both the EU and individual Member States. I would just like to remind you that when we signed the withdrawal agreement at the same time signed a political statement in which then leaders, then Theresa May, the prime minister, confirmed the readiness that in future relations she would also develop close cooperation on foreign policy issues, security and defence, this did not happen during the negotiations, because at one point the United Kingdom was not ready to enter into contractual relations with the EU. However, we are very carefully negotiating and considering how to offer the United Kingdom in certain cases close cooperation, and also the Croatian government is considering establishing a special partnership and close cooperation, bilateral with the United Kingdom over this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33656	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33657	Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry you didn't answer the question asked by our representative, so I'll repeat it. Do you think former Prime Minister Cameron was wrong to call a referendum in the first place? The question, of course, is the tricks they would say because if you say that you agree, you are presenting a scandalous non-democratic claim, and if you say that you disagree with the need to call a referendum, then contradict Mr Plenkovic who made that scandalous claim here. So the first question is, was Cameron supposed to call a referendum, yes or no? Another in terms of the success of the negotiations, British analyses have leaked that out of 65 key points the UK won in 28, the EU in 11, and a compromise in 26, so 2.5 times were more successful negotiators. Faced with the EU's debacle in the procurement of vaccines and this type of negotiations, citizens can rightly doubt the EU that their interests are also poorly represented in these negotiations. So, when you see this dispute, was Cameron supposed to question the referendum?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33658	Thank you very much. State Secretary's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33659	When it comes to these 3 agreements, the conditions and negotiations were very demanding, however, the EU initially had one firm mandate that it did not give up and precisely issues related to equal opportunities were well-organised and incorporated into this agreement. And we believe that in the given circumstances, of course, when negotiations are always the result of the will and of the other parties, this contractual arrangement is, it is a great success and it creates a truly framework for good future relations and the development of partnerships, both in those issues and areas that are arranged, and of course we will be able to negotiate bilaterally and another closer cooperation in some other areas. Regarding the referendum, of course the referendum is one of the institutes of democratic decision-making. The assessment of whether the then prime minister has made a mistake or not is subjective.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33660	The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33661	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. 2016 52% of citizens voted in favour of leaving the EU, 48% for staying, but the protocol ended on 31.12.2020. The new partnership relationship between the EU and the UK is based on 3 explained agreements. For now, Croatian citizens can travel to the UK without a visa. What do you think is the possibility of changing relations because Croatian citizenship and Croatian passports have been scattered throughout the former Yugoslavia, and this is precisely the kind of damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia because they are engaged in unacceptable and illegal jobs in the EU, and it is likely that it will not tolerate the UK and we will also have consequences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33662	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33663	Thank you very much for this question. The issue of the visa regime is certainly one of the very important issues in the relations between the countries and the EU is very careful, so both Croatia and other Member States have been very careful during the negotiations to ensure equal treatment of all EU citizens, so that once for some reason that we do not really see in the future the UK decides to introduce visas it will have to introduce this with regard to all citizens of the Member States, it is not possible to choose between individual countries and citizens, citizens of individual Member States. It is one great value, and for a long stay, of course, visas will be needed and it is something that Croatia can also ask the UK to do, and it is a completely normal relationship between countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33664	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33665	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state. So the whole of Brexit must have shaken the whole situation with regard to the EU, and that was to be expected. Those winds we now see from the island of Britain that are also thought about and the consequences of them being aware of a series of things, but what is there is, we are in the situation we are in. My question is closely related to Croatian exports, i.e. the economy. About 15% of Croatian exports to the UK are held by our pharmaceutical industry. So, at a time when we are, at the time of the Crown, the time of Covid, everything has changed a little bit together and the rest, but I'm curious about what I'm interested in, from these negotiations, from everything else, is there even the slightest doubt that there might be any problems here? I'm talking exclusively about Croatian exports to the UK? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33666	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33667	The fact that the UK exits from the UN will, of course, make certain changes and make trade more difficult for each other simply because of the need to undertake and implement certain common procedures between countries that are not part of some integration. When it comes to Croatia, commercially speaking, Croatia is not among the Member States that will be significantly affected by the fact of exit, so we will still have a legal framework of trade that will be able to benefit our farmers, our farmers, but when we look at one global level, the total exports of Croatia are 1.5% compared to EU exports. However, Croatia may have another advantage in all of this, we are the last to enter and we have more knowledge and knowledge of what it is like to negotiate and Trade with the UK as a third country and that will make it easier for us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33668	The next replica is the respected representative and vice president of the House of Miroslav Skora.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. Unlike many globalists in this assembly and Brussels servants, I am for complete Croatian sovereignty because I believe that we as a country that is 63% of the EU's purchasing power, and where we are at the limit of long pipes, we have a crown crisis and all that is, so what should be Europe's main goal, and that is uniform development. What I am interested in is, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Central Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and then the Matica of Croatian emigrants, so one 30 thousand people take care of Croats in, outside the country and what happens in Croatia. Two questions, exactly how many Croats are in the UK, how many Brits are with us, and how you didn't make it, just answer one more question, whether Mr. Cameron was wrong or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33670	Dear Secretary of State. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33671	Here are the British citizens in Croatia, about 1,000 of them. There is a special number and they will need to submit a request by 30 June and edit their status, get new cards and have that part forever. How many Croatian citizens there are in the UK, it is a data that is not fully available and clear to Croatian authorities, so we do not have such an opportunity to exchange data, however, we are thinking about some 8 thousand has already submitted, so perhaps some 10,000 Croatian citizens are in the UK. As far as the referendum is concerned, I would like to say that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic had the full right to state his position, his opinion on the actions of a British, his, his, his British counterpart, is a personal attitude, which he could hear and can still hear in some other EU Member States. and in the end line in the UK itself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33672	The next replica... here's my colleague Rasdic, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33673	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, 238, demeaning of the MPs. The secretary of state persistently refuses to answer a clear question, whether she thinks former Prime Minister Cameron has made a mistake. First she completely deafened to answer the question, then twice as long as time runs out... So we asked twice if, don't disrespect us, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: So, colleague Rasdic.]] Is he wrong? [[Intruder: You are a relatively young representative...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33674	...so please read the Rules of Procedure at last to know what it is that hurts the Rules of Procedure. ... Based on an article. 239 I warn you, for it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we're going to the next line, which is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33675	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to thank the Ministry for the quick response and for the second part of the conclusion of the Committee on European Affairs. To be honest, I'd be happier if we had put the National Compensation Act into the Social Security Coordination Protocol, but the Ministry obviously doesn't think that's the case. I wanted to ask you something else. So do we know what academic further co-operation will be with the UK or since the UK is giving up Erasmus, whether there is another programme on which EU citizens, in this case Croatian citizens, or students, will be able to report. We remember each other's program before joining the Union, it was Chevening Söhips so-called, do you have any information on whether this is the case?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33676	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33677	Yeah. At this point, there are no clear indications to what extent and how the UK will enable EU citizens to study at their universities, but I would say that we can count on a certain framework to be found because it is not only in the interests of our students, our citizens, but it is equally in the interests of the UK, and I think that there will be a possibility and future under a little different conditions to have a study in these countries. Perhaps just to say, there is really no reason to regret that our national pension established by the National Compensation Act is not incorporated into this Protocol, because there is no need. Since this national compensation for older people has the mark of giving and social care systems They're not covered by these mechanisms at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33678	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33679	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Croatia chaired the EU Council in January-June 2020 and contributed significantly to the establishment of a quality and orderly exit of the UK from the EU. So it's a great contribution that will surely be remembered. What is still significant is that Croatia did not have any more significant trade agreements, i.e. no more significant involvement in the transport of goods and services in the economy of the European Union, but that certainly does not mean that we do not have to and cannot establish these relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33680	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33681	I absolutely agree with this finding, and that's what the government is really working on. We are indeed thinking about how within the framework of these three agreements, especially this on economic cooperation to deepen the cooperation of our economies, and we are particularly interested in developing cooperation in those sectors where the Croatian economy is highly competitive. The food industry, the IT industry, and it is really working on it, so the contract itself opens up the possibility of free exchange, however, it is always possible and more closely and closer to agreeing in those areas that are important to us. When it comes to withdrawing, yes, indeed, the great contribution of Croatia during the presidency was just to ensure a peaceful orderly exit from, the UK from the EU, and I say, it was one of the first decisions I personally signed on the General Affairs Council that we have EU-confirmed conditions [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the entry into force of the Agreement. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33682	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33683	Dear Secretary of State, today there has been talk here about negotiations between the EU and the UK often, those who followed the British media saw that the position of the British media was, as well as British citizens, that the EU is a better negotiator, that the EU negotiates better. So much, because it's been talked about before. Unfortunately, UK exits will have adverse consequences for the EU economy, the adverse consequences for the UK economy, the standard of citizens, we see that they will have political repercussions, the Scottish national party fighting for independence, has never been more than 50% in the polls and in the elections, it is now the first time. What is sad is that the EU, which has been created for decades to ensure peace on the European continent, unfortunately lost one member for the first time. I am particularly interested in whether there are estimates of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of many Croatian citizens and whether there are estimates of how many European citizens will leave the UK and return to their countries of origin. Estimates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33684	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33685	Well, the estimates are different. Each country therefore assumes it has some own idea, however, precisely because of the fact that we have agreed to the withdrawing agreement that those citizens who have had an orderly stay in the UK, EU citizens and vice versa, UK citizens in the Member States, and so on in Croatia, will continue to live on equal terms as if the UK continues in the EU, and this is a lasting value of this withdrawing agreement, there is a special council that will continue to implement these three agreements today, there is a special council that will take care of good implementation and protection of EU citizens' rights in the UK and vice versa, i.e. citizens of the Member States, and that is one great value persons who have had an orderly status will put it suddenly in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33686	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stephen Nikola Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33687	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Secretary of State. Here, Brexit happened and well to achieve this agreement. However, in the next phase, now between Croatia and the UK versus the UK, I think you will agree that giving the prime minister to the British people that they made a mistake will certainly not help develop our bilateral relations. But I'm more interested in which side will benefit from this new condition? We know that in this pandemic in Great Britain, more people have been vaccinated than in the entire EU together. World media is talking about the fiasco of this European vaccination plan. You can comment on that, and if you get a personal opinion, did Cameron make a mistake?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33688	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33689	When it comes to vaccination itself and the strategy adopted by the EU and implemented, I would say that it is indeed on the interest of all Member States, and I would say in particular Croatia and some perhaps smaller Member States that are difficult to provide themselves with the needed number of vaccines. It is secured by 6 pre-dose manufacturers of the vaccine, so before only the vaccine is approved and I believe, although there is, of course, dissatisfaction with the rate of vaccination, that by summer we will catch that predicted rhythm and that by summer we will have that fissure that will ensure a real, almost return to normal. When it comes to my personal opinion, I am, I must say, particularly honored that the high officials in this House are interested in my personal opinion, I would say that Cameron... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33690	I'm afraid you'll have to answer to someone else as a personal opinion. You'll have to answer someone else's personal opinion. The next replica is the respected MPs Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33691	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Metelko-Zggombić, thank you very much for this explanation that really was, we all know that it's been a thorny journey in these last four years since it started. Fifty. So we have come a long way both the EU and Croatia, of course together with... Because we were involved in this, and so was the UK, and that is, the United Kingdom. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] My question to you, how do you assess the overall agreement reached on Christmas Eve last year, in order to generally assess the outcome of these negotiations or agreements, and what does this mean for Croatia, primarily for countries, EU countries and Croatia, in particular for this compensation that will be granted for the United Kingdom's exit from the Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33692	Thank you. Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33693	Thank you very much for your question. I would really assess all these 3 agreements as an excellent, legal framework for developing future relations, and they will enable close cooperation under fair and equal conditions that will really enable Croatian economies to participate in the United Kingdom market and achieve economic benefits. It is particularly important for the withdrawal agreement that the United Kingdom is bound by it to pay off all the financial contributions it has not only benefited or had during its membership but also during this year of the transitional period when it has not sat at the table and decided, yet it will pay for the concessions since it has participated in the programmes. And that's something that made it possible to agree on a financial multi-annual, multi-annual financial framework and recovery plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33694	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33695	Dear Minister, you've been questioned three or four times and your personal position on Mr Cameron's decision has not been made. But it doesn't matter because your position, we all know, is the same as your boss, Andrej Plenkovic. However, what is important about what you do in matters of concern for Croatian national interests? So, the exact data suggests that the UK has a reduced unemployment rate, reduced inflation, and all relevant economic parameters positive following its decision on the Brexit. Have you, as a ministry and government of the Republic of Croatia, considered leaving Croatia from the EU? Have you been doing a physibility study to see if this will eventually be worth it or not, or just blindly follow your Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, regardless of where we are in a community where we are led by obviously exclusively incompetent bureaucrats?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33696	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33697	Thank you for your question, but I have to go with him, with a claim that stretches through that question, I can't agree. The obvious interests of the Republic of Croatia are to be an EU member and right through EU membership Croatia gets visibility, so it also gets the possibility of instruments being more present in the world of economics through an EU contract concluded with third countries with the possibility of achieving economic benefits. I do not have to repeat now how visible this was in the event of this earthquake in Zagreb and in the vicinity of Zagreb, so in Petrinja where we received EUR 683 million of solidarity and assistance for Zagreb and the surrounding area alone. I don't even have to remind How much is it? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33698	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Davor Ivo Stier, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In 131, therefore, parliamentarians have the right to ask questions to the government's representative that it is the government's position, but there is no problem with having someone personally thinks or doesn't think about something, of course the State Secretary can say or not, but it is our right to seek what the government's position is and that the government's representative is, not a personal opinion. Let's not drag the secretary of state into some party bickering, she's a patriot professional, a non-party person, and I think that's how we have to evaluate her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33700	Thank you very much. This, you have called for the relevant section, or section. 131, however, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. I won't give you a heads-up because you've properly called on this article you referred to. Let's go now, thank you very much, ma'am. Secretary of State, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. Yes, I'm sorry, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Gary Cappelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33701	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At its 5th session, so yesterday 11 February, the foreign policy committee discussed information on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the EU and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the HS by act 30 December 2020. The Committee on Foreign Policy shall be based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 67. The HS Rules of Procedure on information on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and co-operation between the EU and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland therefore discussed it as a parent working body. The Committee is informed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, after 9 months of negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on 24 December 2020, an agreement was reached on a comprehensive future cooperation based on 3 agreements and this Agreement on Trade and Cooperation, the Agreement on Security Procedures for the Exchange and Protection of Classified Data, and the Agreement on cooperation in the field of security and peaceful use of nuclear energy. It has been pointed out that a new partnership between the EU and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will allow free trade without quotas and customs duties. Cooperation in a number of other areas of interest for the EU and its citizens as institutional cooperation and ways to resolve possible disputes, and that the provisional application of the Agreement began on 1 January 2021 and that a permanent entry into force of the Agreement is expected in the first half of 2021. After the debate was held, the Committee on Foreign Policy decided unanimously with 11 votes to propose to HS Information on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which was delivered by the Government to the President by act of 30 December 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33702	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club will speak to the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please. But my colleague Glavasevic, you didn't answer, I asked, you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33703	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I thought I might be able to contact you after my colleague Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33704	But look, you haven't answered, secondly, what you could do, let's say very openly now, read the minutes that all the written ones got, and the president of the Committee, as far as I think he's sitting here, and that's the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic. You didn't? But, I say again, I've called the Committee's representatives, there's a colleague named Cappelly, I mean, as far as I'm concerned, go ahead. Here you go, come on. Excuse me, colleague Zekanovic, here. ... [[Thank you very much, sir...]] Everyone got it, but go ahead, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I don't think we're gonna get killed by a little bit of this, respect for procedure, right? So, uh...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33706	As for respecting the procedure, we're breaking it now because I let you speak, and you haven't answered, but... I consciously make it possible for democracy to do so. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33707	We appreciate it with you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, here, for future reference, then we all report together at the same time, so far I thought it was a practice to do it consensually.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33708	And besides, one more thing, just to be clear about the procedure. Only if the president of the Committee is prevented may someone else be, as far as I can see, not prevented, sitting here, living, healthy, thank God, therefore,... No, no, no, I'm absolutely right here, read the Rules of Procedure and read the conclusion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I mean, it doesn't matter to me.]] Now, read the conclusion. Come on, please read the conclusion, colleague Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33709	I will. I'll read it. At the 13th session held on 11 February 2021, the HS European Affairs Committee discussed the information on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 30 December 2020. 179. The Rules of Procedure of the HS discussed the information in question as an interested working body. The Assistant Minister of Foreign and European Affairs reported that after 9 months of negotiations between the EU and the UK of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on 24 December 2020, an agreement was reached on a comprehensive future co-operation based on 3 agreements: 1. Trade and Cooperation Agreement, 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Agreement on cooperation in the field of safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy. During the negotiations, EU citizens' rights in the UK and UK citizens in the EU dominated. The deputy minister stressed that a new partnership between the EU and the UK of Great Britain and Sj would take place. Ireland shall allow free trade without quotas and customs duties and cooperation in a number of other areas of interest for the EU and its citizens, such as transport, fisheries, energy, coordination of social security systems, competition, judicial cooperation, and institutional cooperation and ways to resolve possible disputes. She added that the provisional application of the Agreement began on 1 January 2021 following their signature, notifying that the permanent entry into force of the Agreement was expected in the first half of 2021, after all the versions of the text of the Agreement in all the official languages of the EU and after the consent of the EU Parliament in the case of the Agreement on Trade and Cooperation and the Agreement on the Security Procedures for the Exchange and Protection of Classified Data have been drawn up, after which the Council will adopt a decision on the conclusion of those Agreements. The members of the European Affairs Committee were particularly interested in the security defence cooperation with the UK, the issue of post-Brixit agricultural status, cooperation in the fields of science and research, certain non-profit cash compensations and the legal basis of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement. Following the debate, the Committee on European Affairs decided unanimously with 14 votes to propose to HS to draw the following conclusion: 1. Information shall be accepted on the completion of the negotiations on agreements governing future relations and cooperation between the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 2. It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider the inclusion of the Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons in the Protocol on the Coordination of Social Security, Annex SSC.1, part of the first, special non-profit cash compensation, annexed to the proposal for a Council decision on the signing on behalf of the Union and on the provisional application of the Agreement on Trade and Cooperation between the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community on the one hand, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33710	Thank you very much. Since you've read it, please read the last sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33711	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33712	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33713	When you asked me so nicely, Mr. Vice President, how I could refuse you. For the rapporteurs at the meeting, the committee appointed the chairman of Domagoj Hajdukovic's board, and in the event of his prevention, he was prevented, the vice president of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic and Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33714	Thank you very much. Now we can finally go to the debate, so the first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club will speak to the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33715	I have to comment here first on this violation of the Rules of Procedure. So you've been knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure, right? Conscious?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33716	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33717	And well, I mean, then what are we gonna do, how are we gonna keep talking when you consciously violate the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33718	And I've made it very clear that I've explained everything and this...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33719	And okay, I have a right to comment. Just like you didn't just give Mr. Stier this warning, and you all shared it with us. [[Intruder: You can, you can]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33720	Here I am, I will give myself a warning because I knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure, as I said for the purpose of greater democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33721	All right, give him a warning that he's giving himself, and he'll be precedentd that here's the vice president of the assembly, he'll give himself a warning, let's make it his first time in HS history.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33722	No, he wasn't, he was, he was, he was, he was already, he was giving to a colleague Furio.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33723	You've already given yourself a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33724	Furio warned her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33725	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33726	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33727	Let's get on with it. I'll agree with my colleague Stier that the personal opinion of the respected secretary of state doesn't matter, it matters what she does, it's the government's position, it's the ministry's position, and it's important what's done about it. I asked a very specific question, is it considered whether Croatia's exit from the EU is being considered? Uh, does that sound bad? Well, it's not bad. Why wouldn't the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia do a cost-effectiveness study and see what Croatia has from the EU? Why are we afraid of that? Or what Andrej Plenkovic says is a sacred letter, it must not be discussed. This is not the end but the beginning, this is the moment when the dawn dawns and the curtains rise before the new act, this is the moment of true national renewal and change. It's our job in the government, my job to unite the country and bring it forward. This is what Boris Johnson said when the United Kingdom left the EU. You'll never hear this from Andrej Plenkovic, but here's what Boris Johnson said. Now let's be exact. I've looked around the network of all the networks today, the Internet, which you can also do respected secretary of state and I've found several scientific papers. Here is a scientific paper from the University of Split, which concludes that, from the statistical analysis carried out, it is evident that, in the period following the Brexit referendum, the United Kingdom recorded reduced inflation and unemployment, and a positive rise in the balance of the state budget. Brexit has so far had no significant negative impact on the economy of the United Kingdom, and therefore the hypothesis of the Brexit referendum is accepted to affect the economy of the United Kingdom and its perspective. So, scientific work, you have many in Croatian, in English, and probably in other languages. Let's talk about this. Another question asked by my colleague could the United Kingdom come out of the EU if, if it had given up the British pound? No, no. Why does Andrej Plenkovic want to introduce at all costs EURo in Croatia? It is precisely because he would permanently tie us to the EU solely because it is his interest, not the interest of the sovereign Croatian state but the exclusive interest of the European bureaucrat Andrej Plenkovic. Let's talk about it. I listened very carefully to you when I asked you what we have from the EU, but you have only a minute, you have a later chance, we have increased visibility and we are more present. What does that mean? Where are we more present? Who sees us? You were talking about helping with the earthquake. So more Albania received EU aid money when it was affected by an earthquake than Croatia, it received over a billion euros in aid, and Croatia half as much and then you compare or try to boast of something you cannot boast of. Some colleagues have pointed out here a current situation that is very important to highlight, which is the fight against the crown of the crisis. The United Kingdom, which is on its knees, where people are starving, you can imagine, has so far been vaccinated by nearly 14 million people, 21 people per 100 inhabitants, and 21% of people have been vaccinated. In Croatia, 100,000 people and 2.5% of the population were vaccinated. I'll bring up our neighbors from the east. In the hilly Balkans, Serbs managed to vaccinate nearly 10% of people, over 650,000 people, and then you're trying to tell me that the EU is an advanced community of which its members have an interest. I don't see that interest. I am pleased here that again, the likes of HDZ and SDP are satellites and my colleague, Price, said it was sad that the UK and the United Kingdom left the EU. It's not sad for me, it's fun for me, and for you from the SDP and the HDZ and satellites, it may be sad, I'm very glad they left the EU and where it turned out to be what the EU is. Secondly, here you mentioned an unfavourable impact on the EU and that the EU will find some fund from which it will calm down or cover that negative impact, so you tried to find that figure, so you did not find it how much money Croatia will receive, it does not matter. I have not heard that it has a negative impact fund in the United Kingdom, but it is in the EU. Do you know where today's fishermen of French, Belgian and Dutch chariots? They are no longer in La Manche, no, no, no, far, far, far outside the United Kingdom IGP and this UK is directly making billions and billions of euros while the Italian chariots, since we are still fishing in the Croatian part of the IGP in the EU, regardless of what we have officially declared it here. Croatia entered the EU as a 28th member, and it seemed to you, in fact, that when you come to a party somewhere at 3:00 a.m., when people are slowly leaving the party, they're going home to lie down because they're tired, someone might have had a little more, and Croatia is all happy at the party at 3:00 in the morning, and the music has already been quieted down, there's no money. Do you know how many European bureaucrats in Brussels today who have been unable to obtain a vaccine? A rough estimate is 120,000 people living in Brussels on the coat of arms of EU and Croatian citizens. And finally, what I realized to you is that in the United Kingdom, it's almost all the same, right? Nothing has changed, everything is the same except that the British live a little better, and the rest of Europe is a little worse. And do you know why they live a little better and we live a little worse? Because they no longer finance European bureaucracy, and now we are less, so we need to separate more money for European red tape. And then what's key, here's one, one of the few places where there's talk about it in public space. Brexit is a prohibited topic in Croatian media, it must not be spoken of, it must not be discussed. I call on you ministers, pardon the secretary of state, perhaps you can be a minister if you find any affairs in the minister, I invite you to go immediately to do your physibilities study, here's a study of the profitability of our remaining in the EU. Well, that's what every normal person does, every normal state. A moment ago, my colleague Murganić told me that when I sat down as my colleague, Glasovac, to be closer to me, you were in the SDP, or SDP. I have never been, nor will I be, nor will I agree with your joint decisions, like this one, as is Istanbul, such as Marrakech and as you are a coalition of great SDPs and satellites and you and in the European Parliament. Unlike you, you will vote for this together again and SDP and HDZ, and Croatian sovereigns will not and that is the difference that we have mine, and you have Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33728	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just to clear this up about reporting on behalf of the board, I've been busy and prevented, I've read my e-mails and correspondence, so I've asked the vice president to brief this high house on the decisions of our committee. But I'm glad we heard here at least something very broad about the measure of things from the last speaker, and we didn't listen again to the tracts of what is new sovereignty and what is isolationism or what I know, I'd like to say from the sovereigns and their satellites, but they were satellites to someone else, so they don't have their own, and the sovereigns are in North Korea, let's say that's a good alternative to European integration is, say, North Korea and North Korea, really the state and prescribes what the media is going to talk about. Brexit, as I have noticed, is not a forbidden topic in Croatian media, even though we talked about the Brexit very much and talked about it. 4 g. Brexit is a topic that actually dominates almost every meeting at EU level in almost all formats. I would dare say in political and longer since we have also had preparations for the referendum, so the referendum itself, so making a decision in the British Parliament, etc. etc., so that Brexit I do not see as a forbidden topic or taboo topic, even though a topic which we have discussed very much and a topic that will show exactly all the advantages of EU membership. In the short term, it may seem in some segments that the United Kingdom is winning, but in the long run, and I am responsible for that, and from this pay phone, it is not. And that, as I said, will certainly show time. I'm also not afraid to say and I don't think it'll hurt our relations when I say that I'm sorry that the United Kingdom is, or that the citizens of the United Kingdom have decided and left the Union and I think it's a mistake, but the people have said it, and I'm going to do something more in my individual debate that, therefore, I'm not going to occupy this debate on behalf of the club. As far as this document is concerned, we have some other doubts, but before I say the following, it is good to discuss this report in our Parliament, although we do not really have to do this because the legal profession has taken the view that it is not a new agreement or that the European Parliament can confirm such an agreement. Nevertheless, despite the fact that HS does not have to ratify this agreement, it is good to discuss it and it is good to take a stand. It's also an opportunity to repeat some things, and they say repeating is the mother of knowledge, and on that side, I think it's a good thing. So 4g. This is the topic that dominates, and I would like to thank you there, and I think this gentleman deserves it, is Mr Barney, who has been conducting negotiations with the British, who has been trying to keep the negotiations transparent, as much as it is an oxymoron, but has really tried really hard every time he comes to Zagreb, all parliamentary actors, so he has not only limited himself to the government, but also to parliaments and informed about the course of negotiations, where the problems, which are open issues, etc. etc. A year ago, this so-called. a political brexit. This year, i.e. At the end of the year last year, it happened economically. It seemed at one point that he would be unplanned, I am glad that he is agreed, and I am glad that the United Kingdom will remain in certain relations with us, or with the Union, and that it will not be so. a hard-line economicist who would certainly have far more serious consequences in both Britain and the rest of the Union. Because let's not forget, we're only talking about the consequences for Britain or the United Kingdom, and we're not talking about the consequences for the Union. Of course they have consequences for the Union, of course some economies are quite dependent and lean on the United Kingdom. I'll only mention Ireland or the Netherlands, so this topic was far more important to them than ours. But what concerns me, I also asked Minister Coric's written question is that we do not have a clear assessment and projection of the impact on the Croatian economy. We can immediately say that it won't be as much as it is in Ireland or the Netherlands, but it's not true that we won't feel it, feel it at all. A complex structure for the implementation of this Agreement is also envisaged, will include the Council, and I am sure that we will also discuss in the future the implementation of this Agreement may not be on the table, but certainly within the framework of interested committees, in particular the Committee on European Affairs. What should also be mentioned, as we heard in the debate where the United Kingdom government allegedly offers generous amounts for those EU citizens who want to return or who want to leave the United Kingdom and return to their countries of origin. It is a little questionable whether it is a good practice and whether it is right for EU citizens who want to stay in the United Kingdom, but this is the same thing that the public and political and each other needs to know. Also, just voting this agreement doesn't mean that we're done with our work. In fact, the agreement does not involve mutual recognition of qualifications but is a bilateral agreement, which we will have to work on, or to ensure that our qualifications are recognised in Britain and vice versa. And another thing we haven't discussed, and perhaps the opportunity to open up in public space at the moment is two, not two, but EU agencies that had their headquarters on the territory of the United Kingdom must move to the territory of the Union. Croatia, as you know, still does not have any Union agencies. It may be too ambitious to think that we would get one of these from the United Kingdom, but in any case we have to try to get an agency like Croatia and it deserves it because I will only remember you for our candidate for the accommodation of the agency, the European Medicines Agency, and it was not something great, we did not celebrate and such trips should be avoided primarily because of our reputation in Europe. Also, as I said, this will not have to be confirmed in national parliaments, such as the EU-Canada Agreement, which is something new, but it is good to discuss, as I said, it will certainly have economic consequences on some countries that are leaning on the Union. What we had a chance to hear, I think it's the secretary of state today, and 8,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia are currently on the territory of the United Kingdom, how many of them will decide to remain unknown in the end. In fact, I think it's 8,000 of those who have decided to stay, who have registered in the United Kingdom, how expensive the number is we still don't know, but I've also asked a written question to the MUP. In all, about 5 million EU citizens are on the territory of the United Kingdom, and in Croatia we had opportunities to hear about 1,000 citizens of the United Kingdom. It would be better for the United Kingdom to decide on a slightly less complicated approach than we have decided to equalise our citizens' rights, but it's still some other story. It was also interesting to see during the Brexit that the British living outside the United Kingdom were in a way well-organizing and highly lobbying against leaving the EU. I would dare say that those citizens who had firsthand the opportunity to feel all the benefits of EU membership and that is why they were against it. Why and since the British were against it, we can discuss it again and I will say more about it in my individual debate because it does not reflect first of all my position and again I do not think that this will cause any harm to our two countries' relations. In any case, the document in front of us is good for us to discuss here because of the transparency of such and similar processes in the EU, we must remember and I always repeat European affairs are not foreign affairs, although they are often put into the same basket, these are our jobs, internal affairs, we are a member of the Union and these matters concern us both indirectly and directly, so perhaps in this case there are not so many direct effects. I therefore hope that we will also discuss similar documents in this assembly either through reports by the Prime Minister on meetings of the EU Council or in this format. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33730	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33731	Dear Vice President HS, I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this bill. So we still consider Thank you very much. [[This is information, this is not the law, just to correct you.]] So, we continue to believe that the Foreign Ministry should consider our status in the EU and do a study of cost-effectiveness and that this is then discussed in the Croatian Parliament. What is not acceptable to me is the communication of some colleagues, or specifically colleagues of Hajdukovic, who compares sovereign thinking and thinking with Sj here. Korea. So, I am here talking exclusively about the fact that the UK, after leaving the EU, lives better and is better and better quality, and I want it for my country and my people. You, colleagues of Hajdukovic, are not a representative of the European Parliament, nor are you a representative in some UN parliament, your benefits and your good status, good wages stemming from your representation of the Croatian people in the Croatian National Assembly, and we all in this House should be first in the interest of our people and our country, exclusively, and no excess under the exception of some kind of globalism, so please, colleague Hajdukovic, to be a little more aware of your position that you are a Croatian representative and that the Croatian people and the Croatian state should be your first priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33732	Of course I'll grant you a break, according to an article. 253. (b) We will not leave for a break but we will continue but we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure before, the honourable representative, has given up Thank you very much. [[- I'm pulling back, thank you.]] The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This is an important topic today, and should be reminded at least briefly of the background of this whole topic, as it came to Brexit, many did not expect that one member of the EU who had been in this production for quite a long time would eventually decide to leave the EU, regardless of what he thought about it, it must have surprised many elites, and in Croatia, most of the debate here in our media was shown as if the British were doing something quite irrational, not according to their interests, Prime Minister Plenkovic had publicly delivered, saying that Cameron was making a big mistake, etc. The first indicators, of course, after the formal departure, point to the opposite, we will see in the long term what will happen but in this short time we can conclude that the UK has not suffered any significant damage. However, if the public has a wider picture of how things are, we must stress that for years, for example, in the world's overall GDP, the EU's share has fallen. We also have major demographic problems, our continent has actually been turned into a settler continent because of these indicators and it will cause even serious tensions. Perhaps Dubravka Shuica in the European Commission, she is in charge of demographic issues, will find a magical solution, I personally doubt that, however, the situation is not good. However, we need to look at the current developments in this pandemic. So, I mentioned in the replica, and the Croatian public should know that so far more people in the UK have been vaccinated than in the entire EU. It is said that the European plan for procurement, approval, distribution of the vaccine is actually one big fiasco, many members find other solutions, alternative solutions, already required a Russian vaccine, etc. So, I'll repeat that I believe that the Prime Minister and this government has, so I would say, too much trust in the work of European institutions, it would be better for all of us to be more critical, and I'm going to say, in addition to these agreements in Brussels other solutions because I'm going to say, 10 times fewer people have been vaccinated in Croatia compared to V. Britain, 10 times less, in percentages, so there's about 20%, here is about 2% of the population. So we're very late, if that's the solution to this pandemic, we're very late and we're suffering because of it. If we're a tourist country, which we are, it's certainly in the interest that this goes faster than it's ever been before. Another thing we need to say is that the EU does not seem to have learned the right lessons after this date and a painful breakup with the UK. We are looking recently at this debate about the new budget and the behaviour of Brussels towards Poland and Hungary and how the syntagm of rule of law is used in ideological accounts. It certainly is not good and causes concern. So we don't all look the same way, which means the notion of rule of law. It has implications for family, controversial things like gender ideology and so on, and we disagree on it and I don't think it's good that after Brexit red tape in Brussels applies to some members in this way. This suggests that no lessons have actually been learned and we can expect that the mood in those countries towards the institutions in Brussels will be quite negative and rightly so. However, we return to our reality in order to protect our national interests, that's what we're interested in. The homeland movement is about something I would describe as Eurorealism. So it can be a very good and useful EU membership for Croatia, but we must make the right use of it. A colleague of the state secretary mentioned that Croatia received a certain relationship after the earthquake in Zagreb. But the question arises how that money was spent, we don't know it, it's supposed to be EUR 680 million, where that money went. We see that since the 3rd month of last year almost nothing happened in Zagreb, literally nothing regarding the reconstruction of the city. Thus, the question is rightly raised as to how this money is spent. In general, my experience is that our public administration is unable to deal effectively with these resources. For example, more investment needs to be made in the private sector, the only real private sector can be our recovery engine from this stagnation, and often the state itself directs money towards its needs without respecting enough interests and the needs of employers, and this must change. Secondly, I would say that there is always a danger of usurping power in one place, centralizing political power and decision-making. After approving the new European budget for the next seven years, we see this danger. Why? Because the EU has been tasked as a body to finance the recovery fund. And that's what big amounts are all about. I will repeat that the Croatian public knows this, we will return these loans by 2058. So, young people who are now entering the labour market will actually pay back their entire working life. And why am I pointing this out? Because when they're in charge together, there's got to be a fiscal policy together. I think that less and less will be asked by Member States what they think about various issues and will be centralized by this, this power of economics. And I think we need to be realistic about it being a threat to some sovereign rights. We see in what way, for example. refers to the euro, the euro crisis, because the French and German banks are the owners of the Greek debt, Greece must not actually leave the Eurozone, which would mean, in fact, bankruptcy to some banks in the EU. They're protected by tax money. I'll repeat it to the public with taxpayers' money. And we need to be aware of how it works. Not everything is necessary in the Croatian interest that is in the interest of Angela Merkel or Germany, it is not necessarily always the same. And that's how we have to conduct these discussions. History has denied us the ability to manage ourselves, it is not easy, we need to develop this consciousness and even in culture, political culture that we know what is in our interest. It's a lot easier to follow what others think. In this case, on behalf of all of us, we were negotiated by Mr Barnier on behalf of the EU. We couldn't have too much influence on it, nor on the outcome of this agreement. However, we are interested in the Homeland Movement to benefit our people from this new condition. And I think the doctoring is saying, in general, my impression is that this government has an anti-referendum mood. We have seen how they treated the demands of their own citizens, it is not easy to collect 400,000 signatures for the new electoral law that Croatia needs, as well as these controversial conventions of the Istanbul Convention. Therefore, it would take less of that contempt for its own people, less of a doctorate, and more of a job. 'Cause there's a lot of him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33734	Thank you. The next club will be that representative of the Green-Left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Brexit is one sad consequence of a period of global and European politics in which, unfortunately, pulsism, right extremism and nationalist mythomania were ruled as always at the expense of all. Most of all, it is to the harm of the United Kingdom itself. In materials for the session of our committees, we have received an excellent graphic that shows differences between the United Kingdom and the EU in a number of areas. From freedom of movement, through trade in goods and trade in services to energy and access to programmes such as Erasmus, Horizon and others. In almost all fields, it is evident that the United Kingdom is at a loss. In order not to make a mistake, the EU is very much at a loss. Above all, in a security aspect, since, as I have already mentioned in the United Kingdom replica, part of the Five Eyes security coalition and the Union has lost access to that alliance by leaving the United Kingdom. The agreement reached provides a dose of security for both EU citizens and UK citizens in the Member States of the Union. But Brexit has produced much more uncertainty, above all for the UK and its future. I find bitter irony to be the fact that Brexit, driven by completely missed and outdated concepts of sovereignty, could ultimately fall apart by the UK itself. A survey was published some day in which over half of the citizens of Scotland supported the country's exit from the UK. The support for independence in Scotland has long been on the scale, so to speak, in the sense that the ratio of citizens and citizens who support independence and those who support staying in the state community with England, Wales and Northern Ireland is equal, however, the research I'm talking about is 21 in order that independence has significantly greater support than the rest of the community. That's not to be surprised. In the latest referendum on the independence of Scotland's Selling Point for Scotland's stay in the UK, it was EU membership. In Wales, another part of the kingdom, which voted primarily in favour of staying in the EU at the Brexit referendum, the Plaid Cimru party notes historically high support for citizens and citizens. Last year they set up a commission to determine the possibilities and models for Wales to leave the UK. The Commission's finding, among other things, states that Wales should seek independence from the UK and EU membership. Next year, about the same time Croatia chooses mayors and mayors, Wales will choose his Senate. If Plaid Cimru wins those elections, the UK could be much less united than it was in the EU. But in the immortal words of Harold Wilson, “a week and politics is a long time. ” My colleagues from the Homeland Movement and the Bridge asked if David Cameron was wrong to discuss a referendum on Brexit. I don't think that's a lame question at all because it's going into the core of something that's based on political processes, not only in the UK, but in almost all of the countries of the Union, and that's the concept of sovereignty. It's also a concept of democracy. First of all, in a country which is a constitutional monarchy, in which today still needs a "royal assent" to bring legal acts into force, no matter how nominal, the debate on whether the prime minister was wrong by discussing the referendum is actually secondary. The real question is whether he did it for the right reasons. The answer to the latter question is, at least from my perspective, no. Of course, it can be argued that the UK is a greater and older democracy than ours, however, there is no need to underestimate the importance and weight that the country continues to be a monarchy for citizens and citizens. A fellow Stier reminded great of the country's colonial past, of a powerful nationalist mythology of an empire that had never experienced a sunset. Which had a huge impact on the outcome of the Brexit referendum. This mythology, this concept of sovereignty undermined common sense and very clear data that said that the UK's exit from the Union is simply not profitable, in any way. David Cameron was not wrong to question the referendum. He made a mistake underestimating the power of ideology and mythology. He made a mistake underestimating demagogues, merchants with fear and hatred, such as Nigel Farage, who had never taken an interest in public interest and the well-being of citizens but was only interested in their own benefit. He underestimated Brexit profits. And there are those in this room, we've already had a chance to hear them. Cameron made a mistake because the referendum was called lightly. Brexit needs to teach us not to underestimate low - passion burners who play on emotions and put an end to reason. Brexit needs to teach us that they do the best when there is a democratic deficit. Yeah. And we can learn something from those. We must carefully observe and watch when and how such ones receive support. We need to understand that such five-pare fascists are not a problem alone, but a symptom of the problem. If we want to solve the problem, and if we want to open the space to one day, perhaps, the UK is back to where it is, I firmly believe, and place, then parallel to reality and agreements, we need to think about what the future of democracy is. How to prevent the citizens of another Member State from feeling the way many UK citizens felt by voting for Brexit in the future. For the sake of boldness and breadth and honesty, real concern for those whose vision of united Europe and all the good that it wears is, most of all, concern for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33736	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33737	Some 20 years ago, a funny text was circulated online about the EU's perspectives that the future of the Union was like this after years. So keep in mind, this is somewhere in 2001. In 2007, Bulgaria and Romania entered, 2010 Croatia, BiH and Serbia were admitted. In 2015, Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia and Ukraine enter. In 2017, the UK came out. In 2020, the Netherlands, Belgium and France, 2022, came out Germany. The authors of this joke missed some order of entry and year, but it seems the point was affected. Recently deceased philosopher... Scruton, the most significant conservative thinker of our time, for me formatively important approximately like Edward Cardellj for Plenkovic, gave the BBC its own time, according to me the most concise and precise explanation of Brexit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote Scruton, experts have failed to see that the British are a deeply democratic people and that they do not accept that they are governed by bureaucrats who are not responsible for their mistakes. The United Kingdom's EU membership referendum was held on 23 June 2016. The response was 72.2%, and I will visit the Croatian referendum on EU accession in 2012 with 43.5%. 51.9% of citizens of the United Kingdom voted to leave the EU. The British are contrary to what our media have served and what today is trying to make an impression before the Brexite most, most primitively and most shallowly feared by the advocates of the rest of the Union, telling them that leaving the EU overnight will fail, that the pound will crash, the stock market will crash, the citizens remain hungry, and even the toilet paper was mentioned to be gone, that is the ultimate fear we saw at the beginning of the crown of the crisis. But after the referendum, none of it happened. So, catastrophes were wrong, there was no collapse of the British economy, it seems that greater damage to perception and self and how they see it from the outside was experienced by the EU. The roots of the Brexit are in the forced growth of the economics into the political community. After the signing of the Treaty of Maastricht 1993 The European Economic Community is becoming the EU, and therefore from something that is an economic and common framework, it seeks to grow into a political community. The process is obvious, today we see it clearly, driven too quickly and on glass feet. It is not a defined and cultured common identity in which, for example, the avoidance and mention of Christian tradition as a common denominator of all the countries of the Union, but Europe presents itself as an abstract kind of faceless piece of the world. Out of sight that the political community cannot only be built on economic foundations and economic interests, it has been seen from the economic crisis, why would the German, a German worker, be solid with a Greek worker? Brussels has at the same time become the generator of new anthropological experiments, redefining fundamental traditional social institutions without sufficient legitimacy on the plantings of new ideology imposed on all members. With growing red tape, petty formalism and a growing gap between alienated euro elites and citizens, it is not surprising that the structures that usurped the European story have with the democratically expressed will of the people they call pulsism. The EU is in trouble, any new enlargement will obviously be additionally difficult at the risk of going in principle will be one, but two will come out. I am not saying this by heart, the referendum on the adoption of the EU-Ukraine Cooperation Agreement was held in the Netherlands in April 2016 in which 61% of voters opposed the adoption of the agreement. Of course, this was not about Ukraine, but the real subject was the EU and its expansion in general. It is particularly concerned that Brussels's relations with Poland, Hungary and other countries from the east of the continent still have vivid memories of Soviet totalitarianism, and it is understandable that they do not want a new Brusselsian. Imequity within the EU is increasingly evident from the banal example of Nutelli to the privileges offered by Brussels to Britain during the negotiations with Cameron just before the referendums that the small members could only dream of, but it wasn't enough either. The cream was eventually a later explicit Macron's announcement that future decisions should be made without the consent of all member states. We've got Schengen falling apart in front of our eyes for the migrant crisis, Schengen is a story for little children, as soon as every country becomes a problem, we've seen it, it's uplifting its national borders, like an army, like a wire. President Milanovic, at least I heard him say in public at least twice in the election campaign on TV that Merkel asked him to keep 100,000 migrants in Croatia, so we should have become some kind of consultant for those people from where they would break through the workforce. From the great fathers of the EU today, the under-tapped grandchildren from the tears of Federica Mogerini we spoke of through Juncker's unworthy behaviour to the current indignity with the acquisition of vaccines or debacles of foreign affairs representatives Borel in Moscow, where it was eaten by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, which is otherwise the mainstream of the media as a disgrace to the EU. Cameron got all the privileges possible to make a referendum on the Brexit go differently, but that wasn't enough. Most of the British have voted to leave the EU and that is an inconclusive fact. And now, instead of asking ourselves what is wrong with the EU, where it is stuck with the European project and looking for medicines, solutions, European oligarchy for all guilty populists, calling the population a democratically expressed will of the people. On that trail is also a scandalous statement by Plenkovic that Cameron made a mistake because he called a referendum or at least if you call it a "Kushevic" metaphorical near. Generally, the United Kingdom came out of the EU on 31 January after 47 years. Memberships, first in the community, later in the Union. From then until December 31st, there was a transitional period in which the UK de facto continued to be a full member while trying to reach an agreement and after much competition it was achieved on the past Christmas Eve where the United Kingdom and the EU defined future relations in the area of trade, but also other things. What can rightly concern all citizens of EU member states as far as our interest is protected and the interest of the United Kingdom. Since we see the capacity of the negotiating and skills shown by European bureaucrats around vaccines where Britain has passed us by 500%, one Serbia is much more successful, Vuciceva than the EU and we can reasonably doubt that the interests of citizens, EU member states in these negotiations with the British were not well-protected. On this trail and what has leaked from the British government, which is that in 65 key points of negotiations, compared to the initial positions that the UK won in 28, the EU at 11 points, eventually the compromise was in 26, so 2.5 times more "win" British than the European negotiations. I have a legitimate right to think that it really is, that it is not about Johnson's propaganda now, because I repeat, let's see the involvement of European negotiators on vaccines. Now, we ask the thin-minded EU sweethearts to shut their ears because I'm going to quote the terrible Nigel Farage. In his farewell speech in the European Parliament on 29 January, where Farage summarised why Brexit happened. Fagares that no man of hatred, you could see no of his normal photography in our media for years, but always in some strange positions, portrayed as some drunkard or maniac, in fact a very reasonable man who protects the interests of his citizens. Says Farage: “My mother and father have agreed to the common market, not the political union, not the flags, the anthem, the presidency, you will now want your own army. In 2005, I saw you draw up the EU Constitution, I saw the French people reject it in the referendum, I saw the Dutch people reject it in the referendum, and I saw you in these institutions ignoring them, and you return that constitution as the Lisbon Treaty so that you could adopt it without a referendum. But the Irish also had to hold a referendum for him and voted "no", so you forced them to vote again. You're very skilled at forcing people to vote again, but what we've proven is that the British are too big to be harassed. I hope this is the beginning of this project – a bad project, which is not only undemocratic, but is anti-democratic because it gives people power without responsibility." Contrary to him, I hope this could be a chance to fix and save the EU. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33738	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33739	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary with an associate. The departure of the UK from the EU is likely and, if not certainly, the greatest blow the Union has experienced since the very beginning of creation to date. All over Europe, there are growing doubts about the Union's effectiveness. Many probably and justifiably wonder whether bureaucracy, which in the meantime, has turned almost into some sort of modern court, is at all capable of articulating political goals and plans for the future. More and more criticism is the way its leaders do their jobs and questions whether they are even up to the functions that behave, the situation with the vaccine or the recent press conference in Moscow on issues, do not provide very comforting answers. It is obvious that the Union's enlargement will be gone for another time or longer. At such a time, the last thing the Union needed was the last thing that the citizens of the Union had to decide to lift anchor and sail their way. This was really a problem because it was a member, I must say, not really any one, it was a huge blow to the project itself and to the idea of the EU itself. And then again, that member is a huge country, with many inhabitants, one of the world's most powerful economies, political, cultural, industrial, scientific powers, one of the oldest and most developed democracies of the world, a nuclear power, so however they see it, a serious state that has contributed significantly to the Union. And it was already quite public that Brexit would not be good for anyone, for the Union or for the UK. It is truly known that I very rarely agree with our prime minister, and today there has been a great debate on this and a terrible lot of issues but with his statement right here in the House, that it is a reckless and unfortunate political event, I must agree. Croatia, as in some bad joke, had the "honor" that during its first EU Council presidency, had done a significant part of the work on the UK's exit from the Union. There is the only possible but correct decision to implement the process as calmly and neatly as possible, so that the exit is the same. In this process, it was important for both sides to fulfil their obligations and to carry out their part of the work, but also to be quite clear, that by leaving the EU, the state is left without any obligations arising from that membership but also without rights. As far as Croatia is concerned, one of the consequences of Brexit which we have already forgotten a little bit but somehow I think it should be highlighted, which is that we have received one representative in the European Parliament more than we had before. In the economy, we will certainly have certain problems and that the Croatian pharmaceutical industry itself holds about 15% of the total Croatian exports to the UK, but as the secretary of state said, given the entire proportion of Croatia, it will not make any big confusion but of course it always will. There is also a change in the regime will certainly affect the economic branch that we love to rely on, which is tourism, and we know that this economic branch and the smallest breeze affect, we will see what happens. In this report, two figures on the number of UK nationals, i.e. Croatia, staying in another country, are also interesting. The report makes it clear that about 1,000 UK citizens are staying in Croatia, that around 8,000 of our citizens are staying in the UK. In view of the size of the country and the number of inhabitants, of course it is a huge disproportionate but disproportionate situation in the way in which each of the countries refers to the citizens of the other who reside in its territory. Croatia has decided not to ask UK citizens to apply for residence status. The UK will of course ask our people to do that. But I must admit that I am glad that the Croatian state is in the decision on the regime for issuing residence documents as defined by Article. 18. The UK withdrawal agreements from the EU decided to be reasonable and correct. Every time you decide to be reasonable and correct, it kind of gives you an impression and shows you what kind of country you are, and I absolutely don't think we should get complicated because of Brexit's life to people, the benefits people have because the very fact of Brexit has complicated it enough. Otherwise, negotiations, agreements and very difficult decisions will be made on this issue for years. Let's take a look at the headlines in the media that are following European topics and from these headlines, it can be absolutely concluded that what the problem is, and the headlines "EU has rejected most of the UK's demand for trade in Northern Ireland, may be discounts on steel" or "UK will seek changes in the North Ireland protocol" or "UK deny the EU's 68% drop in exports after Brexit" or "The UK government is covering up the losses of the fishing industry after Brexit hard fishermen" and such, or, or, either, indefinitely. So both these and hundreds of topics will be on the agenda both in London and Brussels for a long time. Of course, it is realistic to expect as in all other processes as well as in life that things will gradually be stalking and that the long-term consequences will probably not be as dramatic in these numbers or in the impression as some of these headlines I mentioned. But that the consequences for both the Union and the Kingdom will be visible and lasting in that I don't think there should be any doubt. The EU seems to have lost some focus and direction lately and cannot quite decide how and with what points to further development. The loss of such a large and powerful member will certainly not help find that path. On the other side of the channel, sometimes the great world empire in its golden age is the world's strongest state now in some way being neither alone nor there. It came out of the community of states, which is, in spite of everything, one of the most successful political, economic and social communities in the history of the world, and on the other hand, the big question is whether there is power in the new circumstances of global politics for itself to create any kind of space, let alone what it is used to. And of course, the question that floats in the air, is it and will the UK remain united at all? At the old year, the Scottish prime minister wrote on Twitter "Scotland is returning quickly, leave the light on," Brexit gave new power to initiatives for the second Scottish referendum on independence. Scotland has parliamentary elections in May and a referendum on independence will certainly be the main issue, and the election results are clear indications in which the people's will moves on the issue. Both Scotland and Northern Ireland, and then, of course, England and Wales will continue to deal with the tails of Brexit with uncertain final outcomes, even when it comes to the unity of the Kingdom. The rest of us remain to turn to our EU community and regardless of the problems that Brexit and we will face for a long time are more serious and determined, with less bureaucratism, and with more idealism in further building the Union. She's not done her job and she'll never be, always have some new challenges ahead of us, some new jobs to do. The departure of the UK was certainly a powerful blow, but the only thing we can do is get up, shake off the dust and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33740	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which respected representative Davor Ivo Stier will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The government has provided us with information on the completion of negotiations on agreements that regulate future relations and co-operation between the EU and the UK and, of course, it is such that these agreements do not require parliamentary ratification before us is a debate of this important issue for Europe's security, for our national security, and of course future Croatian-British relations after Brexit. In this respect, I would like to point out three points at the beginning of the debate in the light of the position of the HDZ Club. First, we believe that Europe is weaker after Brexit, secondly, despite the first finding, we respect the UK's decision to leave the EU, but we also welcome an agreement on an orderly exit and regulation of future relations. And thirdly, we want to point out once again that the British road is not a Croatian road. We're not the former empire, we don't have former colonies to trade with on preferential terms. It is therefore in our national interest to strengthen Croatia's position within the EU, but we also want to develop and strengthen bilateral co-operation with the UK with which we remain allies within NATO. Around the first point, the first data on the decline in trade between the United Kingdom and the EU confirm that Brexit has weakened Europe, its economic power, but thus its geostrategic position. The consequences in this respect can be felt on both sides of La Manche. Despite the UK's first expectations, it did not quickly conclude a comprehensive trade agreement with the United States that Brexit's advocates advocated and expected. The new Biden administration now has a strong negotiator position compared to Great Britain, which is more so-called after several months. Fast Track mechanism, which gives greater authority to the executive authority in trade agreements. Therefore, in order to ensure the political will of the new US administration and to conclude negotiations within the shortest period of time, the United Kingdom will have to be more flexible in its negotiating positions with the United States. However, the departure of Great Britain has also weakened the EU as Brexit leaves the EU a permanent member of the UN Security Council, a nuclear force, a member of G7, and a member who may be most strongly within the EU in favour of the market economy, the limited power of the state and, in a geopolitical sense, to preserve the leading position of the West through the close co-operation of Europe and the United States. Perhaps we could have noticed last week's first indication of this weakness of geopolitical Europe by the way experienced Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov referred to High Representative Josep Borrell. The weaker geopolitical position of the EU, the increase in tension with Russia, the greater fragmentation of the European market, all of this has negative consequences for all EU members, but may in a special way be affecting the aspirations of the strongest Germany, which after united has become Europe's leading country, but remains vulnerable to external factors both because of the need to import raw materials and because of the structure of its economies that depend greatly on exports. Exports to Germany represent 50% of GDP. Therefore, taking into account all these facts as well as the growing frustration in the United Kingdom with the strengthening of German power in Europe, this could in particular be felt among the ruling English conservatives and the part of the establishment that supports them. Considering all this, there may be a better understanding of the geopolitical background of Brexit. From the Croatian perspective, however, it is important that the process of fragmenting Europe and new measuring forces between major and regional forces in Europe do not cause new and strengthened instability in our environment because they would be a threat to our national security. It should therefore be particularly welcomed that the agreed exit of the United Kingdom has been realised during the Croatian Union Presidency and negotiations for future relations agreements between the EU and Britain, including the trade and security dimensions, have been launched. These agreements are now complete, they are tempered by the negative consequences of Brexit, and we are discussing them today. My colleagues and colleagues, in the past and in this session of the Brexit meeting, have been used several times to draw parallels with our position towards the EU. And in this respect, the HDZ's firm view is from its draft to today that Croatia is a place in Europe, in political Europe, so in the EU. As President Tudjman clearly explained before the Croatian Parliament in his inaugural speech on 30 May of the 1990s, Croatian statehood and sovereignty and the idea of European integration are not contrary but by integration in Europe, the Republic of Croatia strengthens its sovereignty, and thus the possibility of developing Croatian people and all Croatian citizens under the conditions of a globalised economy. Technological developments and changes in the international order that have occurred since the 1990s do not reduce but rather confirm the correctness of the decision on European integration in terms of Croatian national interests. The global crisis caused by the pandemic also further confirms that EU membership can ensure Croatia's survival and later recovery of its economy as well as social solidarity and the constitutional provision of the Republic of Croatia as a social state. This does not mean that we must not detect the shortcomings and failures of European institutions, but it is also necessary to stress that the situation would be more difficult for us if there were no European solidarity, that there is no EU, or that we are outside the EU without access to European funds and the European Single Market. And it's not just our opinion and it's not just the position of Croatia. In all Central European countries, there is the same opinion on the benefits of EU membership, if you will, in all the countries of the European part of the Mediterranean, that opinion too. Each of these European countries has its national reasons for participating in European integration, as do those in the north of the continent. Therefore, in the common good European integration each member sees the possibility of its national progress and development. True, because of the geopolitical differences previously commented by the United Kingdom, and especially by England as the most numerous nation within the Kingdom, we decided to go the other way, relying again on our specific history and on the community of former colonies of the British Empire in which London still has primate. It is clear that Croatia has a completely different history, a different position in the world. It is clear that the British road cannot be a Croatian road. However, as it is in the Croatian interest to develop as an EU member, it is also in our interest to further strengthen relations with the United Kingdom after Brexit. And we talked about it several times, including with Boris Johnson when he visited Zagreb as foreign minister and was intensified on this trail, for example. defence cooperation especially that maritime dimension. Of course, we are aware that Croatian British relations have not always been simple. We do not forget our history or that of the recent international recognition for the release of the occupied parts of Croatia or about the entry into NATO and the EU and which were then British views. But we are also aware that future relations can and must form for mutual benefit. Therefore, since we are discussing Brexit, the future relations with Britain, never forgetting our values and constitutional values, however, it seems appropriate to end with the words that Lord Palmerston said in the London Parliament back in 1848: "There are no permanent friends of our permanent enemies, there are only our constant interests." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33742	Now we move on to individual debates and the first one will have a respected representative, Miro Bulj. Here you go. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and next, he'll speak to a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33743	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's a lot of issues here, and I wanted to talk about some of them individually because I don't think they're in the club's attitudes. In fact, I will also agree with our prime minister and the same as my colleague Mrak-Taritash, I do not often agree with him that this is a mistake, long-term one reckless move, but well, as I said before, the citizens voted, the citizens decided whether they were fully informed, I don't know, but it's already another story. It is one story that will not end today, neither with this Agreement nor with its ratification of one day in the EU, a story that is likely to continue. And how, we've had our chance to hear, so what's the future of the UK itself. 2013 was the last referendum on Scottish independence, which then, by the same hair, did not pass. Now I think that the sentiment, at least according to what I read and what I see is very different because one of the main reasons, one of the reasons, of course, that Scotland stayed in the UK is just EU membership. Now more of that so-called. The "incentive" no longer exists, clearly that the Scots are thinking differently about their future, especially if you take into account the structure of the votes that fell in the UK that most of the votes against Brexit were actually in Scotland, both in Wales and in Northern Ireland, while in the rural areas of England it is generally, the citizens voted for, England is also the most human member of the UK. As the political fate of the UK will be, it will certainly show us the future as well as the economic one. I don't think we should look at the economic movements that will follow Brexit, especially in some catastrophic proportions. They won't be catastrophic for either the Union or the UK, but that will leave consequences, that's for sure. And by studying professional papers on this topic, scientific papers, you will see very clearly what their common Lightmotive is. I can quote you some, but normally I'd like to avoid giving you one more. And that is, the consequences of the economics will definitely exist. They will not be equal for the Union and for the UK, for the Union will be much lighter and easier because the Union, above all, is a much, much larger market and companies that operate on that large market have much stronger economic capacity. So it's a very simple dictionary to say what's going to happen, I think even a healthy logic is on that trail, if you're thinking objectively. When we talk about the EU and the rule of law, which has been mentioned here, I am sorry that the rule of law is seen as something idealistic. The rule of law has no ideological sound, at least in the way I see it. We had a debate on a report that is the first one that the EU Commission has adopted, and before the EU Affairs Committee 15.10 this year, and I think that this is a useful debate and that this is a useful lacmus paper for us as a legislator, whether our reforms are going in the right direction, what we need to improve, what we need to modify, so that we have a country where the rule of law is non-corrosive. The rule of law is legal certainty, therefore equality before courts, freedom of speech and similar things, which have no connection, if you ask me, with ideology, but with values, including the EU, liberal democracy, free market, etc. So these are values that we should consider if we are to evaluate the rule of law with value. As for some leaks from the U.K. government, so look, if I were Boris Johnson, or Prime Minister, I'd let the information girls are talking about that I'm a great negotiator for this date. I mean, that's political logic. And in Britain itself, you have their politicians saying something completely different, but that's already a matter of political assessment. In any case, I can, I will conclude by saying that I am sorry that we lost one member and that their loss will be felt, but we are thinking about our future and the future of those we are members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33744	Thank you very much. There are more replicas on your display. He is the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33745	Your Honor, a few days ago in the Assembly, we discussed an agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the Republic of Portugal on the exchange and protection of classified data. We now see the importance of such agreements because this topic has also received a special agreement. Do you have any idea, or perhaps later, that'll answer to us? Secretary, are we going to use what we said at the session, that agreement we signed or accepted with the state of Portugal as the basis for the conclusion of this Agreement, or is it going to be a different agreement? And the second part of the question, are we going to have the opportunity to make it easier for our citizens in case they work on projects in the UK, and they need to access their classified data for security checks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33746	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33747	Thank you, colleague, for this question. It's a matter of first and foremost for the ministry, but what I can now say is that these three agreements haven't covered everything, so it's going to be a matter of bilateral agreements and in fact our government should both in this area and in all others that aren't covered by this agreement actually work that as soon as we don't have them, we should come to bilateral agreements. As far as access to classified data is concerned, I know that some Croatian citizens work in the UK even before they have worked as EU citizens in different agencies and institutions of the UK itself to have access to sometimes classified data. How it's going to be regulated now, I don't know, but if they stay in a working relationship at least from this perspective, not about European projects, what you're saying, I don't think it's going to be a problem, but we're going to see the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33748	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told counterpart Hajdukovic that this new EU and UK partnership is being looked at through three agreements and that through these three agreements not all areas are covered and that is true because some of the topics of Great Britain did not want to negotiate, some of the EU. Cooperation in the field of foreign policy, foreign security and defence is not covered by the agreement because the UK did not want to negotiate this, and, on the other hand, the agreement does not cover the same value with financial services, the conformity of the UK data protection system or the assessment of its sanitary and phytosanitary systems for the purpose of listing third countries which are permitted to export food products to the EU. This is what the EU has made unilateral decisions not to negotiate. Do you think, however, that the agreement opens up one space for bilateral negotiations in certain areas between Member States...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33750	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33751	Thank you, colleague Petyr. Well, I think it absolutely leaves, so in all those areas where we estimate that we have an interest, not only should we, but we should come to bilateral agreements. I do not know exactly how many of our exchanges are in this particular area you are talking about, but in any case if there is an interest or if we consider it in our interest to come to such agreements as well as those mentioned by colleagues in all other areas of higher education, etc., I think we should definitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33752	The next replica is the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33753	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. At yesterday's session of the committee we discussed, I note that you failed to highlight the fact that our diplomacy has in some way been completely unprepared to welcome this and the UK out of the EU in order to try to part of those multinational companies that had their national centres in the UK, and they have already had to be located in the territory of the EU did nothing in order for some of these representations to come to Croatia. You only mentioned that one agency that we applied for unfortunately we didn't get it was one, let's just say a bad try, but it is important to stress that some other companies that are about to move to the area of the European continent are the rest of Croatia completely bypassed on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33754	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33755	Thanks, buddy. In some ways, I can agree, but I'm drawing attention to something else. To have one of the European agencies is much more likely to get some of these companies according to their activities. Let's say we have the Medicines Agency I believe that surely all the major pharmaceutical producers would like to be there near the agency, so the agency is something that would definitely generate such presence in Croatia. On the other hand, perhaps I'd just like to correct this qualification of yours has been unprepared. The government welcomed her unpreparedly, diplomacy is the one who executes the orders. If they didn't get a warrant not to do it, I can't even do it, so I'd say we're welcome, but not as a diplomacy, but as a government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33756	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33757	... a referendum on Brexit on those who advocated Brexit often said that Britain would be better off outside the EU, that the EU was no good, so I would like to know why we are talking today about this agreement if the EU is not so good, if the UK has no use for it, why are British politicians and those who have advocated Brexit wanted to agree with the EU. [[Specially enabled.]] Obviously, they would not want to be part of the EU, but they would love to have all the benefits of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33758	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33759	There are fellow UK foreign policy jokes that I will tell you so privately that it does not turn out to be behind a pay phone about what was the motivation of the UK when it entered the EU. But on the other hand, the EU has far outlived its initial concept of the common market has become something much more and it is clear that no one wants to lose access to such a large market. It would be ideal if you didn't have to be a member, if you didn't have to pay membership fees, if you didn't have any obligations, and if you had all the benefits, that's unfortunately not how it works, and I think that despite all the obligations you get as a member, it's worth being in the EU. Let's say the vaccine is taken as a big argument against the EU, but no one is saying that the British government has taken great responsibility by obtaining the vaccine in the way it has, while the EU has acted much smarter and more carefully so that the responsibility of pharmaceutical companies is in the event of some...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33760	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33761	My colleague Hajdukovic, thank you for the debate. In the EU and Scotland, as I argued in the debate on behalf of the club, their independence movements often cite EU membership as some future or next step after independence. But it's not exactly the stop shop, is it, the two are not meant as some natural way and the accession process as we have the opportunity to see the same is very often very difficult and complex politically loaded. So in your opinion, what can I hope for and how justified you even consider such ambitions and such arguments in countries like Scotland and Wales? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33762	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33763	Well, thank you, fellow Glavasevic. I wish I could answer that in one minute. So we had a situation in eastern Germany that joined Germany and became a member of automation, but we still haven't had a situation to separate one part of the country. So, what about it? You have this question, let's say, Catalonia, when its future was discussed, so now School, Wales, some other separatist movements in Europe, etc. On the one hand, you have a state that is highly harmonised with the regulations of the European Union which has recently been a member, only indirectly, so it did not have its personality in foreign affairs, and on the other hand you have a country that is aspiring to become a member. It is a very good question, and it may be something that we should think the same way, discuss within the Union's conference on the future. Clearly, then, we will have to deal with such situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33764	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33765	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. I'm touched by your concern for the citizens of the United Kingdom, you could even say that you're a bigger English than the English, and it turns out that you know a lot better than they do, which is good for them than one nation's long democratic tradition, incredibly strong institutions, the brilliant parliament that ruled most of the world, turns out now that we all know better than them, here, if they don't stay hungry, they're going to fall apart by the UK. It's touching to feel. What I am concerned about and in your performance as a prominent supporter of the European Union is what I have seen today and what I have seen in Plenkovic's report on the work of the European Council that there is not a bit of review, not a bit of self-criticism. Well, me, if my business partner had left me working with for 47 years, I'd have wondered if there was any problem in my business. In this report, Plenkovic said that nothing at European Union level debated the problems that may have forced most citizens of the United Kingdom to make a decision on Brexit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33766	Thank you, the answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33767	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you for identifying me as one of the greatest advocates of the European Union, I am proud to, precisely because I want to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I believe that we protect them best with this membership. I wouldn't agree with you if it wasn't for questioning, so the fact that we're going to have a conference on the future of the Union tells you the opposite. Here is President Macron, since his election, has often been vocal that the Union needs reforms, that we need to think about the future of the Union, about the way decisions are made within the Union, etc. I cannot say that I agree with everything President Macrton has proposed and on Europe at more speeds, etc., but I am looking forward to this conference, which I believe will be an opportunity to make different views about it and to think about what will make our Union better. Definitely that you can make a move in a lot of fields, but for now we just don't have a better solution than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33768	Thank you, the next debate will be the respected representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33769	My predecessor mentioned French President Macrton and his attempt, in March 2019, when Macrton presented a manifesto, in my opinion, pathetic, for the rescue of Europe. Obviously, under the trauma caused by this decision by most citizens of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union. In the event, President Macron sought the culprit everywhere except in the European oligarchy itself. Well, I guess the British suddenly went crazy and decided to shoot themselves in the leg, and there's no problem. So, Macron is not talking about the problem of the democratic deficit, I quoted Roger Scruton at the beginning, who sees the biggest problem, about how the citizens of the European Union are pulling their noses, which was with those referendums on the European Constitution, and how it was then bypassed through the Lisbon Treaty, and until all the referendums held from English about Brexit to Dutch, that they passed by the will of European oligarchy, until the presidents of European states, such as Plenkovic, publicly in parliaments said that the prime minister of Britain should not have even called, and he was wrong to call the referendum. There's no question about that, the problem of the democratic deficit. And that not only does most citizens manifest the United Kingdom, but also in other European Union countries increasingly feel that they are making their lives, more and more decisions from people whom no one has directly chosen and who do not account for anyone. Also, Macron has nothing on the human resources problem of the European Union leadership, these are mostly sub-disciplined bureaucrats. I'll remind you again of the tears of Federica Mogerini. A terrorist attack on Brussels, the heart of the European Union. She is the European Commissioner for Security, the eyes of us, the citizens of the Member States of the European Union at that moment are against our Security Commissioner, where we expect some kind of strength, what is happening and how it will protect us. And what did we see? Mrs. Federica Mogerini at the press conference is crying and saying she's having a hard time. I can't not set that hypothesis to Winston Churchill at the moment when Hitler attacks Britain at the BBC whines and talks about his personal feelings. Well, that's what the English see. What kind of picture he left Borrell's conversations... What happened to the vaccines, why did the UK get 500 percent more vaccines than the European Union per capita? [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Why did Serbia get so much more? So obviously, our fates are managed by people who are not up to the task, which is why I also told the greats of the fathers of the European Union they have inherited mostly sub-disciplined grandchildren. And that's what we need to talk about, but no, what Macrton says. What does he suggest? He proposes the creation of a European Agency for the Protection of Democracy, which will be directed in each Member State by European experts to protect its election process against cyber attacks and manipulation. So, monitoring and curbing politically insignificant options. Macron also points out that, I quote, "no foreign funding for European political parties, and how many foreign embassies including French, along with conducting NGOs have affected a series of elections in the European East, including us not to speak. Macron would also in that manifesto control the Internet under cover of fighting hate speech. Does that ring a bell? In 2019, that manifesto of his came out. So, one complete flake of reality and incompetence to face the problem. I am not against the EU, on a few occasions it has been publicised lately by Plenkovic as my magnum crim and to God's representative MOSTA, we are anti-Europeans, not I am a European culturalist, Furam Scruton not Kardela, not the Soviet Union what is today, transforms the EU. I want the EU to survive, and in order for it to survive that this will not continue after Brexit, it is necessary to see problems and work on fixing them. I repeat the demographic deficit and personnel sub-capacitation of the people leading the EU, which is now culminating in front of our eyes with these negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry. So why did Brexit have to happen? I answered that in my own time with one rhetorical question. Did the British build institutions for 100 years, create Oxford and Cambridge, produce Shakespeare and Chesterton, Elizabeth and Victoria, Churchill and Margaret Thatcher to wear their hat today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33770	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33771	Dear Rasudiæ, an interesting debate somehow you will explain to me, but I have the impression that somewhere in the context of your debate there is an idea that representative democracy may not be an adequate model of governance for the EU as an entity in the way that you are experiencing it and I would really like to hear that you think that, which would be a good model, I know that this is difficult in a minute, but at least in some indications how would you set up some kind of administrative model of governance with the Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33772	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33773	Thank you for asking, what I see and it is not my original invention is that the problem arises at the moment when something from the European Economic Community wants to grow too fast and without sufficient legitimacy to the political community. When it was seen that the referendum in the constitution was not passing, it was supposed to stop at the ball, it continued if it took a decade, 2, 3, like, as an economic community. We know that economic and human and other flows also lead to some growing creation and shared memory and identity and others, and then to recognize when the moment is needed and to go towards creating a more looser political union. All of this was done too quickly, the Magnum Crimen, in my opinion, was that bypass on the European Constitution and this way of manipulation, and it seems to me that these citizens have lost some confidence. And also by trying to save yourself from being saved that those negotiations with Cameron directly before Brexit were questioned and fair play within the EU because they were offered to stay... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33774	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33775	Dear colleague Rasudiæ you talked about the tears of Fredericka Mogherini, so you mentioned how Winston Churchill was a great leader, he was indeed great, but he was also inclined to tears, he was inclined to often worry about crying, so that is, we can also quote it as one interesting thing. As for the European oligarchy you mentioned, that oligarchy, but who makes this European oligarchy? It is made up of the presidents, prime ministers, European state offices elected by their citizens and the European Parliament, which is directly elected by European citizens. So by that logic, we could call the political leadership of any country, but not just countries, regions, local government, an oligarchy. That, in my opinion, is just another way to disqualify and humiliate the EU leadership. It has been democratically elected, whether it is national leaders or the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33776	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33777	It is human to shed tears, but it is necessary to separate privately and publicly at the moment of an attack on the heart of the EU the Security Commission should do its job, not talk about its private emotions and narrow down at a press conference. Of course Churchill was crying, but Churchill was doing his job right. I agree, we still have a choice, we can talk about the conditions of these elections being held, when and for all, but that is why Brexit happened, and that is why we have problems Brussels with Poland and Hungary, and some other countries, and that is something that will last within the EU. But I think decisions as far as possible should be made by people who are responsible for them to the voters. Today most things are decided by the European Commission, most things, much more than the European Parliament has weight, and there people are not, there is our Shuica, they are not elected directly And that's the problem with the democratic deficit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33778	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Gary Cappellio. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33779	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the State Secretary, as mentioned after the negotiations, which lasted 9 months between the EU and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 24. In December 2020, an agreement was reached on a comprehensive so-called future cooperation.../incomprehensible/... on a total of 3 agreements. We heard from the representative that these agreements have arranged new partnership relations related to free trade without quotas and customs duties, as well as cooperation in a number of sectoral areas of mutual interest from judicial cooperation to institutional cooperation and ways to resolve possible disputes. However, cooperation in the field of foreign policy, foreign security and defence is not covered by these agreements. As of 1 January this year, there is therefore no framework within which the Union and the United Kingdom would develop and coordinate a common response to address the challenges of foreign, security and defence policies. This was somehow the UK's insistence that no agreement would be reached on this, i.e. the agreement, but to discuss it during the next deadline. The European Parliament therefore adopts an annual report on the implementation of the common foreign security policy and the common security and defence policy, as well as for 2020 on whose evaluation the external and political and defence committees of national parliaments are regularly involved, so EU Member States. The same report stresses that the pandemic of COVID 19 pointed out the need for a stronger, more unique and more determined foreign and security policy and therefore to strengthen the Union's leading role on the international stage, thus making it more decisive to promote the Union's values and interests worldwide. The importance of strengthening the foreign-political, security, defence dimension of cooperation has recognised the Portuguese Presidency of the EU Council, which has put more emphasis on strengthening the security and defence component. A regular inter-parliamentary conference on the common foreign, security, common defence policy of the Union will be held in early March, during which future cooperation between the Union and NATO will be discussed in full detail, as well as the future of defence and security, the protection of citizens and institutions of the Union, as well as the issue of protection of external borders, given the growing threats and the various challenges of today. We must not forget, therefore, that in all these matters the UK has recently been one of the Union's most effective military forces, which has left a huge impact on the potential of the Union's defence capabilities. For example, a strategic compass that is a new tool whose launch was agreed last year at a meeting of the Union defence ministers in Zagreb and is aimed at implementing the level of ambition of the Union level to determine therefore strategic approach and objectives in several key areas such as crisis management, capacity resistance and partnerships, and this is planned by 2022 at the latest. So, unity intelligence analysis of threats, co-operation with NATO, COVID-19. Cyber threats and similar things are therefore through this strategic compass, and it is very much the future of negotiations and talks. It is precisely a strategic compass, the first important step towards strengthening the existing and developing new complementary capabilities of the Union. In 2020, it was launched by Germany, and the Republic of Germany was very supportive during the presidency. This issue is further highlighted by common principles and values as well as by European closeness and long-term joint strategic cooperation. So, we can mention that by leaving. In addition, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We can also say that projects that will be through PESCO where there are 47 projects, Croatia participates in 4 and through the European Defence Fund, will find funds for better and better quality therefore common EU security and defence policy and also in some segments together with the UK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33780	Thank you. We also have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have talked about the role of national parliaments in this whole process, the new partnership between the EU and the UK, we know that in fact Michel Barnier has received the trust of all EU institutions, including the Council where the Member States are represented to lead these negotiations, he has been re-entering the negotiations, re-entering the Council and seeking consent to the negotiating position, so now that we look at the end of the whole process, the agreements we have, can you agree that through the negotiating position of Michel Barnier, has protected the interests of the Member States in a good way?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33782	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33783	... Excuse me, so the Croatian Parliament and its committees, so for foreign policy and defence, participate in the work of therefore interparliamentary meetings, which was organised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament at the beginning of each year, where some decisions are discussed and taken, based on these talks and everything that was happening on these committees and proposals that were being made, in this way they have just gone in the direction of talks and negotiations with the UK and has never been independent, these negotiations without, as you have said, coming out and always asked the opinion of the EU member states. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33784	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You'll give me a warning later and I support you in that, but I have a question for you. You are a member of the University Council and you represent this Assembly there, the session is in progress, why aren't you on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33786	Of course I'll give you a warning because it has nothing to do with this. But I can answer you. [[Intruder Glavasevic: Thank you.]] That's because I'm presidening, as you can see. [[Attack Glavasevic: Fair enough.]] And now I haven't achieved the possibility of translocation, it's been bothering me lately. [[Attack Glavasevic: Of all the vice presidents, there were none who could do this?]] Okay, I think you've got your answer. [[Intruder Glavasevic: Well, but there are vice presidents of the Parliament several, more than a few, more.]] The next line will have a respected representative, Busic. [[Intruder Glavasevic: Well, I didn't, actually.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We discussed it yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Policy as regards this agreement and breaking up with V. Britannia and the UK, and among other things here we heard, and if we pointed out on the Committee on the Agency, I would especially like to highlight the Agency for Medicinal Products for which Croatia competed, too, I would like that, however, through the issues that were being asked before, somehow, the impression that Croatia could have gotten it that we had better, better diplomats and better strategies, so I would like you to explain a little bit if you can explain how many countries competed for this Medicines Agency and what a chance Croatia actually had as a last member of the EU, but we did get involved in this contest anyway, so I want you to explain that little bit, that dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33788	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33789	Thank you very much. Well, it was both yesterday and the board, but otherwise, a lot of dubiosis whether Croatia should have competed for such a thing at all, whether Croatia was capable, we were the last to enter, whether we needed something like that, because in this way we might be able to prove if we fail to be able to do so, etc. I think that we should have come into that battle by calling it by making a taste of everything and in some way seeing what our capacities and possibilities are for one tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, where there will certainly be negotiations and further openings and opportunities of agencies and similar things to see that Croatia has and wants to participate in all these possibilities, so where there is, and that it is also a member of one or that in her backyard if we can say there is an opportunity to open one of those agencies. And in this way we certainly gave the EU that we are ready and that in this way we will always compete and be an equal member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33790	Thank you. A colleague, Glavasevic, has again raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has he been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33791	That's right. I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure one more time, Mr. Vice President. The call you received on page 9.2, today is the 12th, wasn't there any other vice president to discuss cases of sexual harassment and abuse at the university today that you represent us there and that the other vice president of the assembly replaces you here today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33792	My colleague Glavasevic, I am your founder. In 240th century, I give the warning by taking away the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33793	But you didn't give me an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33794	You don't need...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33795	Let me at least make a fair living, that taking away my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33796	I don't need to give it to you, but now I'm the foundation of your article. In 240th century, I give a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33797	Fair enough, but you didn't answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33798	Based on an article. 241st, I give you a distance from the session. Please step outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm proud to leave this session where you're sitting, and you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33800	A fellow find also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33801	So, Art. 238, I don't think your treatment of a fellow representative is right because everything he said actually stands only he really doesn't have a tool for a different sentence, and to prove that I'm right would just draw attention that when you were in a hurry to ski you went under the radish across the border, and now you can't be despite what he has...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33802	Find a colleague, I give you the foundation of an article. 239th notice. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33803	Feel free to say it, you know I'm right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33804	Have a seat. The next debate will be respected advocates Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33805	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, MPs and MPs, ma'am. Secretary of State. The will of the citizens of Great Britain in a referendum on exiting the EU is something to be respected, and it is clear that the exit of a country from membership brings consequences. It is therefore very important to establish a balanced framework to protect the interests and rights of citizens and of the UK, as well as EU citizens. It is not negligible to say and to remind that if we can thus characterise it in a financial sense it weighs nearly EUR 75 billion for the EU's 7-year budget and that this has caused many consequences, cutting the European budget, but also giving up some projects that are extremely important. I am pleased to have succeeded as a representative in the European Parliament at the time to protect the interests of Croatian farmers who, for the first time in 2022, will use 100% of the support from the European budget due to the reduction of the budget due to the Brexit, of course, that the agricultural budget has been reduced, which would have been a direct consequence for Croatian farmers too if my amendments had not been adopted. That is why I am grateful to all those who have supported me, and these are many colleagues from other Member States who have realised that if the budget for Croatian farmers is reduced, they will be brought into an unequal position. It is therefore very important to always be at the level of the task where we are and to be worthy of representing the interests of the citizens who have chosen us. This new agreement, which has been reached, is actually extremely important and Croatia has a special role to play here because the negotiations started at the time of our presidency. And what is important to point out because, through certain discussions, the importance of Member States, their impact on the final line of the agreement, should be said that indeed the negotiator, Michel Barnier, who was authorised by the EU for these negotiations in consultations with the Council whenever the entanglement occurred, often came, asked for feedback and a mandate in which direction to be taken. I think it's a good thing that we came after these negotiations to an orderly Brexit, that this is a good result and that the EU and the Republic of Croatia have not taken a confrontational stance on the UK, because even though someone thinks about the Brexit, we are now at a new stage where we have the opportunity to improve our bilateral relations. The agreement is in certain parts detailed while in some it is generalised that it again leaves the Member States able, in more detail, to co-operate bilaterally. What I noticed by looking at what effect Brexit will have on individual Member States, it seems that according to the location that was estimated to be assigned to the Republic of Croatia, Brexit was in fact the least affected by Croatia and Slovenia. I assume that this was done on the basis of some numbered indicators, economic indicators resulting in around 250m euros being exported to the UK by Croatia and around 270m euros in UK exports to Croatia. I think it is important to underline that the achievement of the trade agreement has been guided by standards, because as I have mentioned more, especially when it comes to farmers and Croatian and European, they are calling for an revision of the agreement with third countries, which UK is after leaving the European Union. We want all the countries with which we operate to comply with those standards that our economies, our producers, our farmers must meet, so that we do not represent unfair competition, and it is important in that sense that the same conditions were taken into account by both British producers and entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33806	Thank you, we also have two replicas for you. The first is the respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33807	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Petyr. I'm glad you mentioned the financial aspects of disunity and would just refer to the views and opinions of Croatian citizens, meaning I mean citizens and not political structures, and what I noticed is that there are no media publications, comments on forums, portals and the like, and even the undetectable activity of the euro skeptics that would call for the same. In some informal talks with citizens, this topic is not often mentioned. And now, even as users of the Cohesion Funds, we are not too concerned about whether there will be less money in those funds, since the UK is at the level of payments to the European Union budget and we have not even wondered if there will be any money missing for something that we could use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33808	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33809	Dear colleagues. 75 billion euros are missing in the European budget for the seven-year period has caused great concern for all who make decisions and it is quite certain that new plastic taxes, if we can call them that simplistically, will not be able to complete this deficit and that, you are right, I am also surprised that this does not cause more debate in the public. Perhaps the reason is that we have actually negotiated well throughout this situation, when it comes to Croatia, because every euro invested in the European budget through the next seven-year period will receive five euros from that European budget, so that we can be more than satisfied. However, some information has emerged that the British Government has introduced, under the grain, a voluntary return programme, where financial, financial compensation is offered to the citizens of the European Union to return... /...attack Reiner: Thank you./...to your country, so it would be good to discuss it a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33810	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33811	Thank you very much, dear colleague Petyr. Therefore, following Brexit on the European Commission table, i.e. the European Parliament, they still agree on the issue, there was also a question of limiting support, the amount, the maximum amount of support per entity. In the Republic of Croatia, the situation is currently such that 5% of the entities use about 40% of the total support. Are you also suggesting that Croatia accept the Commission's recommendation in fact and limit the maximum amount of support per entity in agriculture ourselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33812	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vukovac. Yes, this is a debate on the new CAP reform package. As far as I know, no consent has yet been reached in that section. In Croatia, according to the World Bank's analysis, 20 agricultural economies receive 546 times more support than other economies. Of the 173,000 agricultural holdings, 70,000 receive no support and this requires analysis. I believe that a restriction should be introduced, but that this restriction should be established, in accordance with the opportunities within the Member State, in fact by the Member States themselves, because it is clear that production in Poland or France is not the same production in Croatia, nor are the same opportunities. So order should be introduced, transparency yes, justice yes, but I think that Member States should decide on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33814	The next debate will be the respected representative of Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33815	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, members and members of the Parliament. I cannot not discuss the point we discussed both yesterday and on the Committee on European Affairs and we have proposed point 2 as a conclusion, specifically on my initiative, but I think that the Committee on European Affairs has reached a good conclusion independently of who it was. However, if I had been specifically warned, I would not have bothered to conclude, taking into account that, at least in the light that we received from the Ministry, therefore for European affairs, we could have made certain remarks and complements by 5 February 2021, so that I would not have given myself the effort then, and perhaps avoided further text, I find it difficult to describe it in certain adjectives related to an explanation for which reason, and here I will defend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it has been consulted obviously by the Ministry of Labour, where it is estimated to specifically supplement this, our national compensation for the elderly, does not belong to the EU Directive and there is no need to supplement it. I really don't know how to describe it. And since I'm still in HS, then I'll refrain from certain simplicity. In fact, we have left this out allegedly because EU Regulation 883 since 2004 has brought about the coordination of social security, de facto, not to be included in the Protocol, and I will only indicate that this is in contradiction, for what reason? Because if you're looking at the second part of the contribution, then you can see that there are benefits for long-term care, so they're related to social benefits, for the social area. In fact, the EU will not now discuss the excellent translations of the European acquis that we have in Croatia. Europe has different systems and are different countries. For this reason, instead of local terms, she took the terms related to contributions and contributions based on something she did not contribute. In the same way in the jargon, you can say that you can do something, so the citizens of the non-holders of a certain right he has received, which Croatia has recognised to him and can use in England, Sweden, Norway and Switzerland because of the agreement Switzerland has with the EU, and we can look at it. However, our ministry... There's no need for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact is that, I really thought that this was about ingratitude because we are the national fee that came into effect at the beginning of this year, we finally have it as the other member states and that it was going parallel to this, parallel to the EU negotiations where they were set up, we were just supposed to add it, in the jargon, to the masonry. Now we're going to look at it, so we don't think it's necessary, and now I'm just going to read out of the material, or in addition, the contribution that the countries thought was necessary. Belgium, guaranteed income for older people, so it's not our national fee, I'm talking about the metrics, not the name, Bulgaria, social retirement, Cyprus, social pension, we have other countries, the Czech Republic, Denmark, etc., but let's say, there are few names. Greece, special compensation for older people. Hungary, a non-profit allowance for age, Italy, social pension, Lithuania, social assistance pension, Poland, social pension, Portugal, non-profit state old age and disability pension, Slovakia, social pension recognised before 2004, Slovenia, state pension, Spain, monetary benefits for elderly and disabled persons. Of course they're different payers. They're welfare centers somewhere, somewhere they're retirement insurance, completely irrelevant. We'd better stay on the first one. In which he says we can no longer change anything [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] It's the only information that matters. Everything else is a mess... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33816	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33817	Thank you very much. And thank you very much, very much, very much for bringing this to our attention. Here, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs was, of course, just a coordinator, but it is unfortunate that such a failure can be stolen from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it is regrettable, and that is what I was talking about, and you have touched it in fact with some lameness of your debate, that European affairs are often not taken seriously and then we are talking about the situation of Croatia in the EU, how good or bad something has been done, so it is clear that we are not great when we are not fighting for ourselves, we are not behind those elements and those levers that give us membership in the Union. So we're not a mere observer, we're supposed to be an actor, and we keep refusing, I think, to become.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33818	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33819	I agree with you. I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and everyone who's done a good job in European affairs. We are affected by that part of the system that should be professional and competent for certain areas and I think that we should all be more proactive in this part, and even in these things, I know that it is boring and hard to read 1,000 and more pages of text, but we don't need to read everything. It is necessary to partially know the matter, without further ado, but it should then be looked at in that part of the Croatian interest. I didn't mention here the specificity of a craft called Maritime Affairs, I could add, colleague, another thing, which may be less controversial than the Ministry of Labour disputedly might be this national fee, and these are your protective bonuses on wages, on early and old pensions. That's what a round table could do. Is that Does it belong to that category? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33820	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33821	Your Honor, on the basis of your words, we can conclude that there is no good coordination between the ministry, or that there is no good coordination of business processes between ministries. This should be coordinated in order for both the RES and the Foreign Ministry to be able to do jobs together in the interests of our citizens. But I have another question for you. Since you have carefully studied the materials, I have not received that answer, or I have not heard that answer from Mrs. Secretary, do you know, will Croatia, in further traffic with the UK, have to comply with the quotas agreed by the EU or will it be a matter of bilateral agreements, will we be able to move independently with them into negotiations? If we get lucky and have a big export to the UK, can it be bigger than what the Union has agreed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33822	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33823	So this part is, I mean even well and clarified. So the part that is not regulated by this Agreement, regardless of matter, so what is left out, will have to be agreed at a bilateral level because, finally, this Agreement, I will state as analogy, this part that is related to social security, it is not to reflect exclusively the European Social Insurance Directive, it has a certain complement that is not very clean, it is not that itself something that the European directive is suddenly this protocol between, between the EU and this one and it was necessary to take a good look at this derogation, each resolution separately so that we can then take quality views, and unfortunately our pension system, I will just remind myself of what the positions that were related to the project that Croatia is involved in a decent minimum wage. at EU level. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It also shows that there is no knowledge of matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33824	Next is the debate of the respected representative of Domagoj Price. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33825	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, let us hope in the future for good relations between Croatia and the EU. Brexit is now a fact and let's hope that the relationship in the future is going to be good, and for us, this question that we're talking about in a good part is a technical question. As far as Brexit himself is concerned, I agree that he is a major consequence of what was before. The 2008 economic crisis, the migration crisis of several years later, these two crises are certainly, in themselves, and existed regardless of whether the EU exists or does not exist. Thus, the economic crisis and the migration crisis would exist with or without the existence of the EU, they led to a decline of confidence in the EU itself, European institutions and a good part led to a good part of it, led to Brexit itself. The situation, at least before this pandemic of the EU's coronary virus, was quite good. The economic recovery that began in 2012, especially after 2015, led to a record high employment in the EU, if we are not counting only the United Kingdom that came out in the meantime, before this pandemic of the coronary virus in the EU was employed by 200 million people, unemployment has been at the lowest levels since the statistics themselves. As far as the United Kingdom itself is concerned, unemployment has fallen. It fell before leaving the EU, unemployment fell even after the United Kingdom left the EU, but I must say that while the United Kingdom was in the EU, unemployment fell at a higher rate than after exiting. So, after the UK exits, unemployment falls but lower, lower and lower speeds than before leaving the EU. The EU itself is an important factor in the world. After the United Kingdom exits, it is the third largest economy in the world. As far as often speaking of sovereignty, this is often said by those who criticise the EU, we forget that we as citizens are giving sovereignty at a higher level. We give sovereignty when we vote for our leadership at the local level, at regional level, at the state level, and so we gave part of sovereignty to the EU, but we also choose EU leadership. We choose the European Parliament or we choose the national leadership that makes up the European Council which makes up the political leadership of the EU itself. What is a lasting consequence of the EU is peace, peace in Europe. Europe has been a place where wars have been fought for centuries. Since it was created by the EU, starting with all its different iterations from the European Coal and Steel Community, and further in Europe, peace has prevailed in the EU. It's one great and magnificent consequence. The common market too. If we believe that the market is functioning, it is competing with business entities, so the bigger the market is, the better it is for the economy. And the European market I repeat is third in the world. Let's just look at the issue of unemployment, the question that has affected our country for 25 years. 100 thousand Croats, 100 thousand Croatian families couldn't, couldn't secure a decent life, people couldn't find a job, because they and the families lived financially hard. Unfortunately, Croatian politics never solved it. But the conukture in the EU has led to the fact that the EU and the common European market have provided them with what perhaps unfortunately the authorities in Croatia have failed, a job and yet one standard for the lives of our citizens. It is sad that Croatia's policy has not solved it, but still the EU is functioning, the EU has managed to resolve it. It has been often said that there is skepticism towards Brussels, but it exists according to any level of government, local, regional, national anywhere in the world and so on in Europe. Also when we talk about the European Commission when we say that it has not been elected, but we can say that for the Croatian government, our ministers are not directly elected, we chose the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament appointed ministers. This is true in every other country of the world, even where it is directly elected by the president that people were not directly elected by ministers or state secretaries. The strength of EU unity is truly magnificent, we can be proud to be part of the EU, we can be proud of the neighborhood, where we come from, the region, the city, the municipality, we can be proud of our country, so we can be proud of Europe which is our extended homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33826	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33827	Dear Representative, you have been closely monitoring developments in Europe and the Kingdom itself since Brexit announced and you know exactly what has been going on in both the United Kingdom and the rest of the EU. We have already heard in your line that something is happening in part or countries that are members of the United Kingdom, and you have also mentioned Scotland where the national party has now strengthened and what will happen there since they were also against leaving the EU. What do you think we will now join a whole set of signing new agreements with the UK, and potentially after a few years when most likely one part of the member states decide that they will not be outside the EU, such as Scotland, will we then need to do it all over again and do it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33828	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33829	I can't answer that yet, we'll see what happens in case there's a part of the UK that decides to leave, then there'll be a situation like that, we'll see about that. Otherwise, a very interesting thing is the full name of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, so the country is made by Northern Ireland and Great Britain, and the United Kingdom makes England, Scotland and Wales, which is very interesting and are often populist, not to say nationalists of England who spoke against the EU have said that the EU is very complicated. I don't know what's complicated, you have 27 or 28 EU Member States, and their country of the UK is twice as complicated means it's made up of Great Britain, which consists of England, Scotland and Wales and consists of Northern Ireland, so it's very interesting that they used that the EU is more complicated, and the country they want to represent is twice as complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33830	The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you were talking about a democratic deficit, a democratic deficit definitely exists in the EU, at least in this form as it now exists. And yes, before that democratic deficit was much more pronounced, the European Parliament was given growing and greater powers, but because of this democratic deficit, there is this specific internal structure of the EU when we talk about the division of power, so the legislative authority of both the EU Council and Parliament, and therefore the final authority of both the EU Council and the European Commission, which has been appointed, which is therefore not elected, but in the EU Council are elected heads of government and elected representatives in the European Parliament. I believe that the Conference on the Future of the EU will also be able to discuss how to amortise this last remnant of the democratic deficit if it moves now for the Portuguese or Slovenian presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33832	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33833	Yeah, well, the point of democracy is that we talk, we argue, we make arguments, it's a part of democracy so surely at least I personally from such discussions and learn. As far as the democratic deficit is concerned, that's a rather interesting question. I mean a democratic deficit in case citizens choose direct authority in their own country then we can't say that there is a democratic deficit. A democratic deficit can exist in intergovernmental organisations such as the UN, which are a magnificent institution, but no one chooses the UN leadership. The EU is something between an international organisation such as the UN and a state where people directly choose leadership. That is why there is this democratic deficit in Europe, but a solution to the European deficit simply has been chosen by the strong leadership of Europe, to be directly elected for a European president, would not then be a democratic deficit. The question now is if it's what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33834	The next replica is the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33835	Your Honor, Representative Tale. A few things I'd like to explain. First of all, I believe that the flossula is a story that thanks to the EU there is no war on EU soil. The EU did not secure peace in that war is clear who were the winners of Germany and Italy were occupied and today we have Ramstein base in Germany, Aviano in Italy not to go further, so there was peace in Europe rather than a coal and steel community or what was later. There are also problems today, I will mention only Catalonia, so political problems or identity cannot have economic or commercial solutions but only political solutions, the example of Catalonia speaks enough. I also disagree with the the thesis that there is no EU to still be migrant problems. They wouldn't be, Angela Merkel invited those millions to come and then put her in trouble and other countries. And the main problem that Brexit advocates pointed out in Great Britain are EU arrivals that have grown since 2010.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33836	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33837	Migration can always lead to this contrast, but it is not only at EU level, it can be within one country from which people migrate from one part of the country to another part of the country that is economically more active and may not be well welcomed there. As far as the EU is concerned, I said there was no war in the EU, meaning that there was no war on the part of the European Community of coal and steel, EEZ, the European Community and then the EU. Yeah, he was a terrible II. The World War, but after that, there have been almost eight decades in the area and there has been no war in the EU, as a result of the market economy, democracy, freedom of speech and all other things that lead to no conflict. As far as the migrant crisis is concerned, the migrant crisis is again actually the result of the economic crisis. The economic crisis has led to a tightening of economic problems in the Middle East, led to political turmoil and eventually led to a partial migration crisis, but would be with or without the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33838	The next replica is the esteemed counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33839	Thank you, Vice President. I think you first mentioned something in this debate that we may have had to mention before, which is that the EU is primarily a pension project, and above all it is an example. He also mentioned probably the largest English or British statesman of the 20th century Winston Churchill, so in one famous speech at the University of Zurich in '46, just to avoid repeating the horrors of II. The World War, and given the opportunities for a new cold war, the struggle between the free democratic world and that communist bloc has just spoken not only of European unification, it has gone a little further, it has talked about the United States, but the concept has been European integration as a guarantee of peace on the European continent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33840	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33841	Yes, I agree with the fact that democratic states... of course some state would be democratic must reach one stage. Democracy was first created in the UK and the United States, slowly developed, but there, by the end of the 18th century, half of the population lived in cities, was written, so that the country would become democratic, it would have to come to a stage of urbanisation, that such economic development would happen, that society would be so stable, that it would be democratic. The moment we have democracy, it also comes to the fact that countries do not solve their problems by violent means. So, yes, democracy is the basis for no conflict and what is fascinating, which is magnificent, means that today 27 countries of Europe, a peaceful route without war, without bloodshed, have united into a political union that is a community of states, communities and citizens, and this has helped to create this great European market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33842	Next replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33843	Dear colleagues, they spoke about the migration, about the departure of entire families from Croatia, about the problem that I absolutely agree with that the government does not actually do in many ways enough to keep all these people, it is one pair of sleeves and the other, of course, is the liberalisation of the market but certainly an emphasis on this for the government to do more. There I must certainly put emphasis on the problem of the health system where we can see every day that there are no reforms that the government needs to do to stop the draining of medical personnel. It will certainly be interesting to see what the UK will do after Brexit with its health system since a lot of healthcare professionals have come from both EU countries and Croatia, and certainly encourage and here, and to the ministry and the entire government to really make the necessary reforms to stop the relief of medical personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33844	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33845	Yes, it is true, unfortunately, the authorities in Croatia had to work even better, find problems for the excess unemployment we had, that was a problem in Croatia practically up to a few years after joining the EU, 25 years means the quarter of a century in Croatia was high unemployment. Unfortunately, Croatian authorities have not found a solution to resolve it, to ensure a better standard for citizens in Croatia, and apparently the EU has been working, that the EU is doing something good. The number of employees, as mentioned in the EU area without the UK, is almost 200,000 million people. Before the coronary pandemic of the virus was a record low unemployment, so it allowed people to have a better standard for themselves and their families, and that is the purpose of politics and thus the purpose of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33846	Thank you very much. It's 1 and 5, so now we're going to stop at this over and we're going to take a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,48 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, i.e. a colleague does not have a colleague of three, but three, we continue with the previous point and will finally speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta, Honored Representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33848	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. "La commedia c finita" some say, trying to relativise this blow to the EU and the fact that a large member comes out after 47 years, representing the second largest economy in the EU and paying the other one to the EU budget, they are relativating this by the thesis that the UK has always been in the Union once half and the other half is not, i.e. It led its policy and that a similar thing would continue. But what has happened is a serious blow to the EU and a serious warning that it has gone the wrong way, that the characteristics of this wrong path, I will repeat once again, the democratic deficit above all else and then the increasingly obvious humane sub-capacitation of the people who lead the EU and its institutions. Confidence was low, Euroscepticism in the 1970s, however, over time it grew especially in the 1990s when the EU was trying to turn into a political union, people who stood out as Eurosceptics were making fun of or first of themselves, later labeling it as some kind of populist or even fascists instead of trying to hear their arguments and the problems they were pointing to. I am ahead of the referendum, given that polls are going in this direction so that perhaps most UK citizens may vote for a date, the EU has offered the UK unfair conditions. Not fair to other EU members, which was not good. And even in that scenario, the issue in the long term, there was a bigger problem for the EU, this imbalance of countries that, by chance, satisfied the citizens of the UK and voted in a referendum as Cameron suggested, convincing them that they had chosen for themselves the special and best beliefs, so that the UK's long-term survival in the EU would remain fair in the Union, the Union's very idea of harming itself remains to be seen. After Brexit happened, there was a lack of this self-critical elemental to see where the problem was, instead of what we heard, today we mentioned, there was a Crohn manifesto from 2019, it looked more like a fire extinguisher with gasoline. So he just potentiated in his vision those things that most of the UK citizens made to vote to get out of the Union. Finally, after a lot of tension, what most people expected happened, which is that 5 to 12 will find some kind of agreement and it is good that it happened because even the worst agreement is better than going out without an agreement of chaos that would lead to a temporary shooting in commercial, commercial, and personal relationships, would be lost there and a lot of time and energy and money, such an agreement has been reached and it is good to achieve. I will repeat once again from the perspective of us as EU citizens, it is legitimate to ask the question of how many of us in the EU have received and managed to negotiate our interests and what has been obtained on the other hand? We have this one indicator that the British side is waving with, which is that they're going to repeat once again, from 65 key points at the end of the agreement 28 of them get to their side, the EU 11 and compromise 26. I have not seen any of the EU negotiators boast that we have been better off than some utopian painting has been created. "Here everyone is happy, everyone is happy," never in these negotiations, the tensions and compromises can all be satisfied the same way, and what happened with the pharmaceutical negotiations, that it is our right to doubt that what the British claim is holding water, so that they win 2.5 times as much as the EU negotiators. To a friendly country, we wish the UK every happiness, it's an old country, I'm sure it won't starve and it won't fall apart just as easily and we as an EU member, let's try at least if there's no hearing in others, let's open up some issues and see what these problems have led to the decision of most UK citizens and that these problems are solved, so that the process of disintegration doesn't continue but to strengthen and preserve the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33849	Thank you. The next one is final on behalf of the SDP club, according to a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the end, I can only repeat that I do not doubt that coordination with our resolution ministry has done well, but I do not think it is aware and that it is not good that some European business is being done and one part is what my colleague Fabianic mentioned, which I did not arrive on behalf of the club, this is the contribution of SSC1, a certain amount of financial compensation that does not apply to the protocol. It would have been much better if we had included our social pension category, so what was said, just to give you an example of what other countries were doing and what they call it, and it can be coordinated with what we should have included. So Belgium classified guaranteed income for older people, Bulgarian social age and pension, Cyprus social pension, Greece special benefits for older people, Hungary no contribution to age, Italy social pensions for persons without their own resources, Lithuania pensions from social assistance, Poland social pensions, Portugal no contribution to state age and disability pension, Slovakia social pension recognised before 1 January 2004, Slovenia state pension, Spain money benefits as aid to older disabled persons unable to work, Sweden's financial support for older people etc. So if we do not think that this is the law that we have recently passed, then indeed the ministry really needs to reconsider its work and attitude towards European affairs. Finally, I would say that the Union is a good project, that it is a project that guarantees peace, security and co-operation on the European continent, and that I cannot agree with colleagues and colleagues who have held the opposite position here, which is that the EU did not bring peace in Europe. I would say it is quite the opposite because the EU was created primarily in the agreement between France and Germany which were the main ones, we will say at that time because of conflicting interests or the fight over the energy generators of conflict in Europe. It was put in an ad act and the Union brought peace. The Union also becomes a global player and Croatia could never dream of having an impact on some global processes if it were not an EU member. We also often forget the EU's strengths because we started taking things for granted. I don't want to tax everything now, but here's the last thing our citizens often feel when they go abroad is the absence of roaming. So, you can call, report home without any fees and the entire Union is one operational area. And finally, I think the time will show that this UK decision was not good for them or for us at the end of the day, that it would be much better if the rest of the Union had stayed, it would have been better for us and them, but here at the end of this debate in the Croatian Parliament I say in their language Goodbay UK you will by sorely miss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33851	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Ivo Stier will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the end of this debate may be referred to several thesis that have been presented. Every debate on Brexit that we have had in the Assembly, in one way or another, is transformed into a debate on the EU itself or on Croatian membership in the EU, so we have heard today that our membership should also be re-examined, either by the government or by the MVEP, to review what we have received or not by membership. It seems important here to note that it is always necessary to take a critical look at how institutions work both national and European, but it would not be good to reconsider strategic orientation. We made the decision, there was also a referendum, the parliament made a decision then of course there was the plurality of the Parliament, there were also the rightful ones in this assembly and as far as I remember no one voted against Croatia's entry into the EU. There have been different governments, different coalitions, people who participated in these ruling majoritys and mostly supported this pro-European orientation. So, I don't think reviewing that strategic direction would be good. Geopolitically looking at the option was that if you do not enter the EU, you remain politically in the rotted Balkans and, of course, Croatia is both in the Croatian national interests and today, it was better to be an EU member. Often, in this context and some criticisms have also been mentioned by Poland and Hungary and some, however, even in these countries, although I am now not entering specific issues that these countries have with European institutions, but there is nowhere to advocate the EU's exit. Moreover, in the last dispute that was during the last one, rather than last year's Council, the German presidency reached an agreement with those countries. There may also be some new processes that I think we in HS would have to follow a little bit better and understand. Both in the extreme line and in our neighbourhood on this Adriatic side, so on the other side of the Adriatic, in Italy you see forces like that of Matte Salvini who were pretty critical of the EU that have now, after all the negative consequences of this economic crisis, caused by the pandemic, suddenly had and now express one pro-European policy and want to participate in even one European government and what happens is that these, let's say so-called. pro-European circles and want such strength to take part in the majority. So obviously some new processes happen and I think it would be good if we were already opening these topics so that we could both be updated and follow what's going on. In the end, I would repeat that the path that the UK has chosen is something that we respect as a decision made by the UK, but that is certainly because of the specificity of the British position, history, the position of relations it has with its former colonies is one situation that cannot be compared to the situation in which we are. And therefore, the Croatian way of development is the way within the EU. So, of course, it's good to take advantage of this situation that we didn't cause after Brexit, but to use it for a new phase in our bilateral relations with the United Kingdom, to strengthen these bilateral relations. That's what the government has informed us about, and I would like to finally mention that the HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33853	Now, on behalf of the promoter, state secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. In this final word, I would really like to thank all the representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament who participated in this debate. I really think that she was extremely rich and that through this debate we could shed light on and a little bit of discussion about a whole series of issues, so I would even say not only about this report, about these three contracts that the EU has concluded with the United Kingdom about future relations but also about that withdrawal agreement, but also about the issue of the debate on the EU, has also raised the issue of the debate on the United Kingdom. To get Croatia as an EU member is really unquestionable and I would say the amount of financial resources that Croatia will have available in the next multi-annual financial framework despite the fact that the United Kingdom has come out of the EU and has been one of the biggest contributors to this budget, Croatia will have a huge, large amount of funding, the amount of funding available to 24 billion euros, so that from the regular multi-annual financial framework, so the EU budget, and from this specific instrument of the future EU that will ensure both recovery and resilience, strengthening the economy, ensuring high and social standards for our citizens. So the benefits of Croatia are unquestionable. The same way we participate in the open, single market, we participate in all those economic co-operation agreements that the EU has concluded with third countries. This opens up a wide range of work and economic benefits to our economies. There was a debate here, which would have been if the United Kingdom had been in the Eurozone, there would have been no difference in the United Kingdom's ability to go out, so Article 50. The EU Treaty clearly states that each Member State can therefore initiate the procedure, the exit procedure. The United Kingdom’s future was discussed also with its historical role and its former world empire. There was also talk about whether she would remain united. So all that remains to be seen in the future. The same has been discussed about Northern Ireland, which remains the EU customs area just to secure that soft border on the island of Ireland, and we have very strong and clear rules in this regard. But what I would say is really important, is that we have as a result of our efforts, so I would say to the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, we have an orderly release of the United Kingdom, and now we have three international agreements that create a solid basis for future partnerships. And any EU partnership with the United Kingdom and the Republic of Croatia that can participate in this wider framework of cooperation between the EU and the United Kingdom, but also the Republic of Croatia can enter into bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom in areas of special interest. When it comes to an agreement on the protection of classification data, a question has been raised as to what its reach is. This agreement enables the protection of classified EU and Member States data when acting within the framework of the common security and foreign policy. Thus, this contract can serve as a good basis for negotiations and for the final conclusion of a possible later agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom on co-operation and co-operation in defence and security. The future of Europe was also being considered. Of course, the future of Europe is being considered daily, and during the Croatian Presidency, a great process of creating conditions for holding a conference on the future of Europe has been launched. During our Presidency, the Council's position on this issue, which is now to be agreed with the European Parliament and the European Commission, is to set up a joint declaration to establish a conference on the future of Europe in which all Member States, all Member States' institutions, civil society, citizens of Member States, will be able to present their views, their opinions, their proposals on what direction, in which way the EU should be further developed. When it comes to monetary fees, the Law on National Compensation for Older People recently adopted in this House, therefore established this national support that allows for a certain degree of social protection for Croatian citizens living in the Republic of Croatia and precisely because that fee is so set up, so regulated, so prescribed, it is in itself not suitable or susceptible to exportation. And precisely because it is not suitable and subject to the exportation of duties, there was no need, there was really no need for that law and that compensation to be incorporated into the Protocol, Annex I to the Protocol on Social Security Coordination. Our competent authority was well aware that other countries had counted their laws in Annex I, some countries that have a similar fee, but they counted it precisely because, if they had not installed it, there would have been the possibility of exporting these fees, and therefore our law was set up so that I did not foresee the coordination of social security at all, so that ultimately there would be equal treatment of these fees, national fees and these other fees that some speakers specifically pointed out that they were listed in Annex I, the consequence would be that they would not be an integral part of the coordination of social security, nor would be subject to exportation of these duties. And finally, let me perhaps resume, the negotiations on these three agreements were conducted extremely intensively, there were a whole series of issues that really slowed down, sometimes making it difficult, or even making progress in the negotiations impossible, but we can be satisfied with the final result of these negotiations. The chief negotiator, Barnier, who acted under the mandate given to him by the Council, did a good job, and during all these nine months of negotiations regularly came to the Council, reported progress, reported problems and sought suggestions, ideas, guidance as follows. Only the EU Council, in which our Prime Minister participates and has been strategically directing him, so I would say in the end, in the given circumstances, we can really be satisfied with these agreements that are now ahead of us. When it comes to the possibility that Croatia will conclude specific bilateral agreements with these agreements, they also exist, and that is what the government of the Republic of Croatia will also, in the future, focus on whether we are going to form a wider security partnership within the EU towards the UK, be able to find ways to create a bilateral partnership precisely with these security issues of interest, I would say, mutually. We can co-operate particularly in the area of Southeast Europe, certainly in the fight against cybercrime, so we have a whole series of areas left to edit. They mentioned professional qualifications, mutual recognition of professional qualifications, too, is something to follow and what we will conduct negotiations on. At this point, these agreements do not cover foreign, security and defence policy issues since the UK was not inclined to do so now in these negotiations during these 9 months. There have been certain issues for which the EU has not been prepared to install in these agreements, so that we have the issue of equivalence for financial services, as well as the issue of quality of agricultural products, which has also been mentioned by a representative in the HS, these are issues which the EU Commission has kept for itself and will decide in future. We believe that all together we have achieved a balanced good legal framework, and it remains up to all of us to build good, coherent relations with this new partner in the future because many things connect us and future partnerships are possible and necessary for mutual benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33855	Thank you, we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33856	Here's the honorary secretary of state, thank you for the information you've given us. We see, the opposition is in a large number of last points this, for, in the last day of this week, there. ... I just wanted to wish you this, uh, pleasant weekend, to you and all your colleagues, here, I suppose, that Mrs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Busic, I guess there's some written question on behalf of the club you've already agreed on, I guess you know the answer, so maybe you can come straight to the answer, but I want a nice weekend for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33857	Okay. The next replica is the respected representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33858	I really don't have a written question on behalf of the club. I'm saying this on my own behalf, and if you prove it, I'm going to do it, I'm really going to do the lee detector test, if you will, but I've been waiting for the last one, because I was hoping that you'd mention, the respected Secretary of State Metelko Zgmbić, something about, in today's debate, we've said things that don't practically touch Brexit, but we haven't mentioned one thing, which is the Commonwealth countries, and how and how they reacted to Brexit and how much it affects their economy and their trade, because we've read a lot of what their prime ministers say, which actually means to them now, so today when we talked so much about Brexit, I'd ask you just look at the countries of the Commonwealth and how it affected them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33859	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33860	So in the debate on the need for exit, the UK has repeatedly pointed out that there will be strong, even stronger relations with the Commonwealth countries and with other major players, and it will probably be so, so there are countries in Commonwealth that are now connected and connected by the British crown, however, according to what we can see and hear is that these future negotiations on some future contracts are not going so easily or so quickly, I know that the UK has proposed to India the conclusion of the same contract on economic co-operation, so it is questionable how fast it will go and what the content will be. In any case, the UK wants everything best in their free new path and we want a good partnership in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33861	Thank you very much. That would conclude the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it to get the conditions. Thank you, ma'am. Secretary of State. We are now going to the next item and this is: - Proposal for a conclusion on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2019, which was adopted under the Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism The Proposer: Committee on Internal Policy and National Security We can, please, have letters and figures, four or five in the Chamber, we don't really have to shout. The Proposer shall be the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, based on Article. 66.a. in relation to art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government has delivered an opinion that you have received, does the proposal's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, Reverend Niksha Vukas, board president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33866	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the proposal for a conclusion on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2019, which was adopted under the Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. As is known, by the majority of votes on 20 September 2019, on the confirmation of an additional protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, in the text proposed by it, it has reached that additional conclusion that, when the ratification document was laid down, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to determine the area or areas to which the additional Protocol will apply. In September 2020, the Committee adopted a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and the Administration proposing to repeal the Croatian Parliament's decision in question on 20 September 2019, which was adopted in the Law on Confirming an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The Ministry of Justice and the Administration explained its proposal, among other things, that The 12th Additional Protocol, which bears the name of territorial application, stipulates that any State or EU may, at the time of signature or at the time of laying down its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, determine the area or areas to which the additional Protocol will apply. What is important, it is pointed out, that it is particularly important that, in the event of such a declaration, the Republic of Croatia has previously proposed to amend the Act on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol which, for the abovementioned reasons, seems incomplete and the Committee has unanimously proposed to propose to the Croatian Parliament that a conclusion be taken out of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2019 adopted by the Act on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism with a view to the aim of the ratification process being completed as soon as possible at international level in order to allow the additional Protocol to enter into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33867	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to explain his opinion? Yes, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Honorable Juro Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33868	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. When adopting the Act on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the Croatian Parliament also concluded at the same session that Croatia is required to establish an area or areas to which this Protocol will apply. The provisions of the Additional Protocol, under the name of territorial application, prescribe that any State or EU may, therefore, not, at the time of signature or at the time of the submission of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, determine the area or areas to which that document will apply. In the event that a country does not use the possibility resulting from this provision and when laying down a ratification document, it shall not give a declaration to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to which the additional Protocol applies, it shall be understood that it will apply to its entire territory. Since this is a criminal justice area, which we all know is valid for the entire territory of the state, this additional protocol will also apply in the territory of Croatia. We believe, therefore, that there is no need to make a statement to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe when laying down a ratification document on the territory or areas of Croatia to which this additional protocol will apply. In addition, such a statement should be previously amended by the Act confirming an additional protocol which, for the reasons set out above, does not seem to be meaningful. Therefore, the Croatian government proposes to draw a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, which has put the Croatian Parliament's conclusion out of effect since 20 September 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33869	Thank you. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33870	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, seemingly today the subject of this point is one formality, however, it would not be bad if we were already touching the subject of terrorism to talk a little bit about the metrics. Namely, the story of terrorism is not something that is far from us, as far as we are concerned, Croatia, and especially the Croats in BiH are already under the influence of Islamic terrorism. He began even during the war in BiH when several thousand volunteers from Islamic countries, who once called mujahedins, after Afghan veterans, participated in the Bosnian army of BiH. Most of them came through Croatia during the initial Croatian-Muslim alliance and fought within the only El Mujahid army of BiH and committed serious crimes, including the ritual decapitation of Serb prisoners first and then in the second half of the war and Croatians. With the blessing of the then Bosniak summit, which is still on top today, and later on, I will say something about Mr. Šefik Dzaferovic, another Bosniak member of the BiH presidency, they were given unsupervised citizenship, and some of them remained in BiH after the war mainly in isolated communities where some domestic youths joined them. These communities will become nurserys of future terrorists. Some of them worked diligently to harass Croatian returnees mainly in central Bosnia, which is largely exaggerated in Croatia. In Croatia, Islamic terrorism is referred to as something far away as the great world I don't know about Paris, Brussels, but the citizens of Croatia were targets of Islamic terrorism from the slaughter of 12 hydropower workers in Algeria in 1993 to a terrorist attack organised in October 1995 by Al gamma al Islamiyya in Rijeka after Croatia handed over its leader. Then a suicide bomber crashed a car into a Rijeka police station, wounded 30 people, and it's a miracle that the victims weren't much more. In neighbouring BiH, Islamic terrorism has been present continuously since the war. In 1997, a major terrorist attack in Mostar was carried out, in the western majority part of the Croatian city, an auto bomb was detonated more precisely, consisting of 15 anti-tank mines, 450 grams of TNT cubes, 20 anti-personnel mines and 15 kg of explosives. The result was tens of thousands easier and more severely injured and hundreds of apartments and cars were damaged. The attack was organised by Ahmed Zuhair Handal, an Islamic who later ended up in Guantanamo and is now in Guantanamo. Immediately after the attack in Mostar, part of the Sarajevo media tried to place a story about how the Croats did it to themselves to make sacrifices, and what was the most embarrassing and embarrassing thing to put on that, was also part of the opposition press in Croatia. After the real perpetrators and the team were discovered, it is not known that anyone in Croatia who wrote this was blushed or told the citizens of Mostar and the Croats in BiH at all. According to a document signed by David M.Thomas Jr. commander of the US Navy in Guantanam Bay, and what leaked Wikileaks said Handal was involved in the killing of an American citizen in BiH, a terrorist attack by a car bomb in Mostar, and an attack on USS Cole's USS destroyer at Yemen. This Handal was registered in Zagreb, on 364 Milan Rešetar Street as Ahmed Zuhair Handal of Saudi Arabia. To him, Croatian authorities issued their ID card in December 1994. All of this was done as part of the support of the so-called humanitarian workers from Islamic countries who came under the cover to war in BiH. His real identity was Ahmed Zail Salim al Zuhair, and we know that this Handal is in Guantanamo today. The bombs were planted in the Catholic church in Bogojn in 1996 and in Sarajevo in 1997. That same year, the assassination of Pope John Paul II was prevented during his visit to Sarajevo. The explosives were found under the bridge that the Pope was about to pass. A year later, Islamists killed two Croatian police officers back in Travnik with separate bombings. The following year, Jozo Leutar, deputy interior minister, was killed in a car bomb in '99. The perpetrators have not been discovered to date, although there are numerous indications that the assassination was carried out by the same Islamic team associated with part of the Bosniak political summit. The most shocking example is the fate of the return family Angelic from Kostanica near Konjic, which was killed by Wahhabi Muamer Topalovic on Christmas Eve in 2002. One of the most successful Croatian economic stories in 2008, the Islamic terrorists bombed not only Christians, but BiH institutions, which was witnessed by an attack on a police station in Bugojn in 2010, in which a police officer was killed. The following year, Wahhabia Mevlid Jasarevic shot a US embassy in Sarajevo in the middle of the day half an hour from Kalashnikova. In April 2015, in Zvornik, Nerdin Ibric, connected to the Wahhabis, killed one and wounded 2 police officers, and in November the same year, a terrorist attack coming from the same mile was carried out by Enes Omeragic, who killed two members of the BiH Armed Forces in Rajlovac, the suburb of Sarajevo. A group of 11 extremists linked to the Islamic state who planned a terrorist attack on the New Year's Eve in Sarajevo was arrested shortly afterwards as part of police action in Sarajevo. Meanwhile, old war mujahedin and later Wahhabi, the new danger began to represent hundreds of BiH fighters who fought in Syria and Iraq on the part of the Islamic state. Where did those people go? The Islamic State covered huge territory, suddenly the Islamic State fell, where did the army go? Is it possible among these millions of younger men who came from these areas at the invitation of Angela Merkel, who asked Milanovic to keep us 100,000 by force here, perhaps part of those fighters? The departures from BiH to jihad, to the Middle East, have taken so many steps that a special law on the ban on foreign wartimes has been passed in BiH. That would only be smart enough to understand the scales of terrorist danger in the neighborhood. The Croatian media shamefully conveyed the news that the ISILs, at the time, Islamic states, ISIL's black flags, occasionally turn in the Wahhabi villages that are completely outside the BiH state system, were the closest to us in the area of the municipality of Velika Klamudu, which is a little more than an hour drive from Zagreb. Who's responsible for this condition? First of all, those who brought Islamists and tolerated their actions. The Vehabian movement was imported and mainly financed by Saudi Arabia, the BiH intelligence and security agencies have repeatedly marked the Saudi centre "King Fahd" in Sarajevo as a place of gathering of radical Islamists and no one because it is the least said, until now there was a lack of political will to clear the matter up. In fact, Saudi Arabia is a great American ally, and Americans are the strongest factor in BiH, so I guess it's not convenient for them. If only a fraction of the energy, time and money they have invested in the political collapse of Croats, the fewth nation in BiH, had committed to fighting Islamic terrorism, we would not have the problem today. The situation is therefore schizophrenic. The great American ally finances Wahhabi, Saudi Arabia, and then the Wahhabi rapals fell apart on the American embassy. And nothing to anyone. The world also visited the news that individual fans of BiH's team in a retrieval match of additional qualifications for the EP against Ireland's cries "Palestina, Palestine" have interrupted a minute of silence for victims of a terrorist attack in Paris, and the Bosnian refugees who financially assisted US enemies have already reported that US authorities have accused at least 66 people of planning terrorism associated with ISIL on US soil, including as many as 6 people from BiH. I will now stop here, and I will continue in an individual speech on the controversy caused by former President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, speaking about returnees from the Syrian wartime and character and the work of Sefik Dzaferovic, a member of the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33871	The next club of representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Budalic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33872	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here is a proposal for a conclusion on the decommissioning of the HS Conclusion of 20 September 2019, which was adopted under the Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Terrorism is one of the most difficult forms of crime and the problem of global proportions that poses a direct threat to individual freedom and life. Although it marked the appearance and spread of the coronary virus in 2020, it is important to note that the danger of terrorist attacks did not disappear. There have been 5 attacks in the EU in the period from September to November 2020. Paris on September 25, 2 people badly injured, Dresden on October 4th 1 person died, near Paris on October 16th, the murder of professor of history, Nice on October 29th, headless woman and 2 other murders and Vienna, November 2, 4 died, 17 more wounded. The Republic of Croatia is the EU Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. It was drawn up in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, which took effect compared to the Republic of Croatia on 1 May 2008, strongly condemns any form of terrorism that constitutes a violation of fundamental rights and human freedom and opposes human dignity. Terrorism is considered one of the most difficult forms of crime. The Additional Protocol incriminates the following acts of terrorism. First, if they are committed unlawfully and with intent and if domestic law is prescribed as a criminal offence. It means participation in activities, organisations or groups for the purpose of committing or contributing to one or more terrorist offences. Second, attending a training for terrorism, if it was committed unlawfully or with intent. Third, travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism has again been committed unlawfully and with intent. Fourthly, the financing of travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism committed unlawfully and with intent. Also, organising or otherwise facilitating travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism. The additional protocol was adopted at a meeting of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on 19 May 2015 and entered into force on 1 July 2017 by the end of October 2020 42 countries signed an additional protocol and ratified by 20 countries including the EU. On 20 September 2019, most of the votes, 103 for and 2 abstentions were adopted by the Act confirming an additional protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The additional protocol aims at harmonising the legislation of the Member States of the Council of Europe with a view to facilitating mutual cooperation and more effective prevention and control of terrorism. In addition, on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, a conclusion has been drawn: When laying down a ratification document, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to determine the area or areas to which the additional protocol will apply. Today, we are discussing the out-of-force conclusion, also on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Since the provision of an additional protocol uses the verb "can" not necessarily, the EU Member States have been given the opportunity to identify the areas to which the additional protocol will apply. If the State does not use that possibility, it shall be understood that the protocol will be applied throughout its territory, as prescribed by Article. 12th Additional Protocol. Since the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia applies throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no need to make a declaration on the areas in which the Additional Protocol is to be applied, in order to make such a declaration, it would be necessary to amend the Act confirming the additional protocol, which is incomplete since the international contract in question will apply throughout the Republic of Croatia and what effect will be achieved and by not giving any statement. As I spoke and mentioned terrorist attacks in the first part of the speech, I see counterpart Rasdic mentioned BiH, I would refer to past events in our country. An act of assaulting Mark's square with automatic weapons, an attack on Pakrac with a hand grenade, in Sibenik recently automatic weapons, five people who were killed. We have to wonder where so many weapons, or easily available weapons, come from. The M.O.P. is on his 10th page. On the 12th of spring, he urged citizens to surrender their weapons voluntarily without sanctions, and that's good. However, further after the earthquake, in the Sisak-Moslavina County, we are informed through the media about the larger quantities of weapons and explosives found on destroyed buildings. I'm now wondering how to avoid such situations by thinking of these acts of terrorism that have occurred in our country lately. Which means, first of all, to make legalisation possible, when I say legalisation, then I think primarily of hunting weapons because a good part of such weapons must be kept black, which as such can legalize or extend the legalisation deadlines and implement the campaign. We can also mention the crown as the cause of such consequences, or just closure, lockdown, certainly largely contributes to the behavior of our fellow citizens here, not choosing a way of course for funds that are not allowed, to act or to take matters into their own hands. So here's what I've taken advantage of is the opportunity to invite the relevant people to do it in certain ways and primarily to think about legalization as regards these weapons that are considered hunting weapons, to do it through one quality campaign so that we can also reduce the possibility and quantity of weapons that are held black and, of course, to reduce these attacks that primarily affect the safety of individuals and those who are victims of such violence, but such acts certainly affect our social community throughout our country, and that's not good. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33873	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33874	Referring to the thesis and these numerous examples that I have presented as her need to have the problem of Islamic terrorism and in Croatia an inappropriate attack on Rijeka and Hidroelectrica workers, especially in the Croatian neighbourhood whose victims were the vast majority of Croats in BiH, the special polemics rose around the returnees from the war in Syria and Iraq, members of the so-called so-called. Islamic states. At that time, President Grabar-Kitarovic presented the figure, data on several thousand volunteers from BiH who went to the side of the war, as Islamic warriors. It has caused real controversy on the political public scene in BiH, numerous degutant insults and plantings, but what was provided as an anti-argument was presented by BiH Security Minister Dragan Mctic, who sought to be exact and said there were 226 people from BiH on the Syrian battlefield, not thousands, as the Croatian president said. He also added that they were currently there in 115, died 65, and returned 45. Of course, we can't even know the real number, because when we go to the war in Syria, they certainly didn't report Mr. Mctic to say, "Here, register us, let's go fight for the Islamic State." But what is signifiable is this number of deaths, 65 dead, suggesting that more than 226 fighters have gone to the battlefield. As a confirmation of then-President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic's thesis on BiH's instability in this regard, it is also shown that the completely opposite position of the then-born deputy, Mija Kresic, who defended the Croatian representation, cited a statement by NATO's chairman-in-Office of the NATO Military Committee, General Zbor Petar Pavel, who said that the Balkans is being threatened by Islamic terrorism, but also by Russian influence, and that BiH could become a haven for terrorism. The interference of foreign countries such as Saudi Arabia and other radical Islam sponsors in BiH is too high to talk. Now as for Mr. Šeif Dzaferovic, who also, at that time, pointed out in the ground-floor attacks on the Croatian presidency, the president, and it is interesting recently also to President Milanovic for his fully justified and reasoned statements on BiH. Chief Dzaferovic, therefore the current other Bosniak member of the presidency, along with Zeljko Komsic, held high duties in the security service, Bosniaks. He approved BiH citizenship by Islamic fighters from the BiH Army's El Mujahid. We also have a statement from the HDZ in BiH, there are also representatives from the diaspora who are members of this session and can confirm and extend this, quote, as a signator of the BiH citizenship document, Jaferovic assisted world-renowned terrorists, radicals and mujahedins who participated in one of the world's greatest terrorist attacks, according to New York City where innocent people were killed. As such, it cannot be a state summit in BiH aimed at a better future, peace, co-existence for the peoples and citizens of BiH, as well as the country itself. And it is interesting that former BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radoncic published a public post entitled Jaferovic's plan is not and will never be mine in which he published a document showing that Jaferovic as head of the Security Service in Zenica assigned BiH citizenship to mujahedins who fought in BiH from Egypt, Pakistan, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Jordan. But the presence of Islamic terrorists is not over. In February 1996. Washington Post announced that in a terrorist camp near Fojnica, there were still 200 Iranian instructors present at the time to continue their activities. Two days later, Infor executed a campaign destination, at least that Iranian story ended. And finally, I will quote the words of Miroslav Tudjman in an interview in Globus on 1 September 2017 where he said the fact that two of those 18 who brought down the World Trade Center in New York had experience in fighting in BiH. And says Miroslav Tudjman, which is why 4 weeks after the collapse of WTC Ali Izetbegovic was forced to resign. So these are very serious things in our neighborhood, in the fight against Croats and in the war and after the war were involved by people who are part of the world's Islamic network that she has executed and The worst attacks, including the one in New York. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33875	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's clear and it's explained in the opening speeches about what this is all about, just one, in my opinion, technical matter. But I would take this opportunity and devote a few minutes to the Council of Europe and to the conventions that this body brings. So the Council of the EU is the oldest pan-European organisation that deals mainly with the protection of human rights, and I would dare say, an institution that we often forget, not to experience as well as its tradition, its age, and its issues. Likewise, when we adopt conventions, ratify conventions adopted by the Council of the EU, I think it is important to remind ourselves that it is not enough to ratify, adopt them, and implement them, and I think that nothing bad for our citizens will come from the implementation of these conventions, even though their rights will be protected. I remember, I would remind you here only of the EU Council Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, one, better known as the Istanbul Convention, one, which we also adopted here, but I am not sure how good it is and how much money, education and all those infrastructures that would require its consistent implementation, we are indeed using. So now, and this Convention on the fight against terrorism is absolutely something positive, I just hope that we will then apply it properly, that it will not turn out to be neglected, a little bit and forgotten like what we call the popular Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33877	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33878	Your Honor, here we have seen what is written in the conclusions that were made last year. I personally believe that there is really no need for such a provision to really apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, given that our country is divorced and that there is indeed a greater danger of terrorism in some areas than in other areas and, if this Protocol is to be applied, it certainly does not need to be in the territory of the whole country. In an explanation of why this decision is withdrawn or withdrawn, is that the Penal Code is being implemented on the territory of the entire country, and then it is not or is defined the areas in which it should be applied? Do you think it was better to define it, especially for those crisis areas, we know which, we know where they are or to apply it to the territory of the entire state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33879	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33880	Well, thank you for this replica, so I don't know, by the discourse that we've had a chance to look at lately, it turns out that this crisis point is Mark's square, but here, the only thing that's happened is some fences and that's it. I think that it should be implemented throughout Croatia, Croatia especially as a tourist country must be very sensitive and cautious about this and we must be prepared to respond to every threat, as well as to this terrorist one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33881	Thank you very much. The next final speech will be made on behalf of the club of MPs Mosta, a respected representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33882	The EU Council Convention on the fight against terrorism is important, it is a matter of our concern, I have cited examples of how and how and where Croatia is threatened. However, terrorism that doesn't matter, now a series of crown crises, for the last year, since it's all closed anyway, we have fewer examples, but that doesn't mean that this problem is gone or that it won't turn up again when life returns to normal, it opens up some deeper questions. We, fortunately in Croatia, have an integrated population, so in most cases, we are part of one society. There are, of course, isolated cases, one of them was this attacker on Mark's square, but he doesn't need to be compared to political terrorists because there's no evidence of that, but more of the isolated case. It is as if we would conclude that because of the Breivik case, Norway is a country full of hate and terrorism that must now tighten laws, narrow freedoms, etc., etc. However, what is the problem in other countries, I repeat, Croatia still does not have this problem, it is that increasingly terrorist attacks do in the name of a particular ideology, Islamic in this case, people who are others, in some cases, and third generation born in those countries and on European soil. And that's a much deeper question, which makes a young man born in Vienna randomize his fellow citizens with whom he shares the same air, the same street as he was born. It is a question of the failure of integration, I will not go so far as to now make claims such as some European leaders, that multiculturalism is dead, but definitely raises deeper questions about the state of European society today. The fight against terrorism must not be an excuse to narrow down human rights and freedoms. These things should also be done as regards the legislative framework, and then the repressive practices work very precisely and very momentously, and we all as people's representatives must keep watch on these things because this problem will unfortunately occur in Croatia as well. So do whatever it takes to prevent terrorism, however, do nothing beyond what will not be effective in the fight against terrorism, which can lead to human rights narrowing and freedom. Here, this is now a little formal ironing of the Convention with this decision is just one small step towards it, but this is a topic that is important, it will be present, I repeat, unfortunately, it is certainly in the future, although we would all like it to be different, and the topic over which we as people's representatives will have to watch closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33883	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief, clear, so there's nothing left hanging in the air. The SDP Club will therefore support the proposed conclusion from the arguments already made on behalf of the proposing president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-12-0.u33885	Thank you. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. And so we end today's work, we will continue to work on Wednesday, February 17th, at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Railways, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 110. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 15.00 hours.
