ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43048	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, they will now speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43049	Dear colleagues from HDZ, the news reported that one of the closest associates of late Mayor Milan Bandic, Mrs. Bandic, was arrested last week after a bid in the election of directors. Ana Stavinić Rukavina, the new mayor has named new president and new members of the General Council of the Children's Hospital Srebrnjak these days. On this occasion, it is pointed out that the Srebrenica Children's Hospital needs more express support for the city in establishing transparent management practices in order to improve the health care of children in Zagreb and beyond. The mayor himself said that, as the new Administrative Council was appointed precisely in order to provide the necessary support to be implemented in cooperation with stakeholders both in the health and scientific sectors, the project of the Children's Centre for Translation Medicine. What is coming is that this Administrative Council will hold a public tender to elect the new director of this Children's Hospital. Under normal circumstances in this new public tender, all applicants should have equal treatment, and the chosen director should be the one who, according to his CV so far, achieves the goals and tasks that this hospital needs, while achieving both the objectives and the task of protecting public interest, especially children. In this context, here, I really don't know in what other way the necessary support could be given to the further realization of the project of the Children's Centre for Translation Medicine, designed by Dr. Boro Nogalo, along with his team and his associates and brought the project worth 60m euros to the Republic of Croatia. If that's not Dr. O'Donnell's return. The fights of Nogal at the position of the director from which he was unlawfully, unlawfully and inappropriately removed, so this time I expect that the moves of the new Governing Council to correct this particular injustice and irregularity, which, unfortunately, my personal, and I believe the vast majority of our citizens, have been beaten over the backs of those smallest and most sensitive, and these are sick children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43207	And now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the Representatives Club and the Independent Representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the first representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, will speak. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, and then she'll speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43208	Thank you, dear Vice President. I want to talk about something that's up to date in Sibenik-Knin County. So 13th 12th2019, Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection adopted a Regulation on the Protection and Conservation of Krka National Park. This Regulation introduces two significant changes and it is good to make rules when it comes to nature protection. However, this rulebook is quite controversial. Therefore, these two significant changes are forbidden to bathe in the area below the waterfalls at Skradinski noise and traditional fishing for the local population is prohibited. Of course it did not fall on fertile soil, especially in areas located right next to the river Krka. The bathing ban is brought at a very sensitive moment when our tourism is affected by the influence of the pandemic Covid-19. Limit swimming and thus eliminate the most recognizable tourist visor of Sibenik-Kninsk county, the visor they used in principle, and more or less all the world's stars that came to the area of Sibenik-Knin County, when the whole state is fighting for every guest and rescue of tourism, means simply and figuratively, shoot themselves in both knees, and in both knees because on the one hand, the Krka National Park itself struggles to survive and preserve financial stability, but in this way, the bathing ban is practically shot at the feet of the Sibenik-Knin tourism. Bathing alone could have been problematic at times when Skradinski Buku had 10,000 and more people at one time, but then the solutions should have been sought in another way, in a limited number of people who could at some point bathe, not in full ban. At the same time, the preservation of natural resources would also be ensured, but bathing under a waterfall would turn into one of the most wanted tourist attractions, for which reservations would be recorded years earlier. In addition, I must point out one note as to the public good, this attraction should not be particularly additionally charged, but should only be booked in time for a period of bathing for a limited number of people. The least we can do now in this crisis year is to suspend the application of the article on the ban on swimming in front of Skradinski Buk for a year, as suspended after all, in the previous year. And in this.../incomprehensible... and now, in the coming time, find a better solution that less endangers the local population, but also the institution National Park Krka. An additional blow to relations, so I wouldn't tell the national park, but I would say the ministry and the local population, it also issued a ban on traditional fishing allowed by the locals for years, and this regulation is now prohibited. The people who have lived alongside Krk have preserved Krka for centuries and are safe with traditional non-social fishing, the biodiversity of Krka is not endangered. Instead of using this population to catch invasive fish species, e.g. Lately, a pike has appeared in Krka, which has never otherwise been resident, the population is limited to activities that have been working for centuries and thus further antagonists towards the national park, but also towards institutional protection of nature in general. Instead of the minister finally catching up with the adoption of a detailed plan of the settlement... which is located in the area of Krka National Park, where people have their own properties, besides 98% of the property in Krka National Park is privately owned, so owners are limited to using their property, instead of bringing in a detailed plan to enable people to practically renovate their houses, the minister brings these regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Regulations that, at the end of the ballad, shoot at the feet of the Sibenik-Knin tourism, which prohibits, are the easiest to ban, the easiest and dumbest and the simplest solution is the ban. There are other solutions, so I'd like to ask the person in charge to receive and offer attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43309	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Kresimir Ackar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43310	The Honorable Vice President of HS, distinguished fellow MPs. The decision by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia distributed 2 billion and 140 million kunas to 24 higher schools and scientific institutions whose buildings were damaged in an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County is another proof of the good thinking and direction of recovery in which Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is working with his team. The contracts delivered to users two days ago are based on the funds provided for to restore scientific and university infrastructure. From the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and part of the EU Solidarity Fund. We have seen countless times that investment in education and the scientific community is one of the most important investments that always regenerates success and brings new benefits to life in every community. These funds that have been allocated to the recovery of higher schools and scientific institutes are well-oriented money. They will make it possible to rebuild not only by returning to the original state of the buildings but also by completely restoring it, which involves increasing the anti-stress safety of buildings and reconstructing the premises so that they can have new modern facilities, and that will certainly enable them to be more easily involved in the European research space, but also for greater integration with the economy. In addition, the restoration in this context is not just about buildings. The restoration is closely linked to people, it affects people's safety and gives them a positive perspective. The restoration of buildings is also the safety of students, scientists, university teachers and all others who work in higher schools and scientific institutes. Behind 42 contracts and more than 2 billion kunas are thousands of students, teachers and scientists who need their buildings, their jobs, their student halls, classrooms, laboratories and all other spaces without which there are no studies, lectures and scientific work. The importance of the scientific community, especially in today's challenging times, is worth talking about over and over again, reminding and emphasising how much we need and important. Scientific activity and higher education represent an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and are part of an international special European scientific, artistic and educational space. I am sure that the renovated buildings will be an incentive and a new force to fulfil the tasks of higher education institutions and institutes, that they will achieve the objectives of education and scientific activities in line with the requirements of the present time, as well as a vision for future times. Education and science are strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore understandable and logical that investment in the reconstruction of educational and scientific institutions is necessary. Such an approach showing a high level of awareness of the needs of our community is part of a continued policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is aware of the importance of education and science for further development of our country. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I can and must commend this initiative by our prime minister and his subject, which despite the Covid epidemic and the 2 devastating earthquakes are successfully dealing with problems and finding solutions for them. It is not easy in reduced financial opportunities to help citizens and the economy and education, but here, and this event proves that when the state is run by a responsible and conscientious government that knows how to set priorities and knows how and when to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u43311	Thank you very much. That's what we'd end up with today's work. We will continue on Monday, I stress, Monday, July 12th at 9.30 and the first item will be the report by the president of the Republic of Croatia on the EU Council meetings held. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 14.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56123	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. We're moving on with our work. This morning we'll be in accordance with article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure of HS shall propose an addition of the agenda of the 7th session with 10 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the points of the draft agenda have not been made, I would like to conclude that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 7th session. This morning we continue with: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Volunteering, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, but in relation to Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Family and Youth. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56124	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. The volunteering system in the Republic of Croatia is defined by the 2007 Voluntary Law. to regulate the basic concepts of volunteering, the basic principles of volunteering, the conditions of volunteering, the rights and duties of volunteers, and the organisers of volunteering, as well as other issues of importance for volunteering. Amendments to the 2013 Voluntary Law more significant changes have been made to the provisions in relation to long-term and short-term volunteering, the definition of volunteers and volunteers, the situations in which the conclusion of the Voluntary Agreement, the rights and obligations of volunteers and volunteers, the competence acquired by volunteering, the introduction of the concept of volunteering in crisis situations, as well as the principles of inclusive volunteering. The aim of amending and supplementing the law is to bring it into line with the current situation in the field of volunteering, and to remove existing obstacles and ambiguities related to the application of the current law, to facilitate the application of the laws to volunteers, the overall normative framework will be brought into line with existing trends in volunteering, further, the work will be facilitated and the effectiveness of future calls by the National Committee for Volunteer Development will be improved. The most important amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law concern the harmonisation of the law with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, the definition of the 4-year term of mandate for the National Committee for Volunteering Development and the possibility of appointing the replacement of members, easier organisation of committee meetings, inclusion in the National Committee of Representatives of the Authority responsible for Youth, Civil Protection, Tourism and Sport, and the National Agency responsible for the implementation of the EU volunteering programme. Defining the concept of volunteering from a business entity, defining the concept of volunteer coordinator in charge of effective management of the volunteering programme, defining the concept of the volunteer centre programme and how they are financed. Then a clear distinction between ‘voluntary’ and ‘practical internship’, redefine the concept of long-term volunteering, enable long-term volunteer volunteering, edit the concept of training for volunteering, and additional protection of children involved in volunteering, especially on the route of volunteering organizer – user volunteering. Amendments to the provisions on the content of the certificate of volunteering and the possibility of issuing by electronic means, the regulation of the principle of banning the exploitation of volunteers in the event of occurrence of extraordinary and unpredictable situations are permitted to volunteer fully replacing the work carried out by workers in accordance with the law governing working relations, as well as volunteering for more than 38 hours a week for a period of more than 3 months. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Volunteering has been adopted, and the comments, proposals and opinions have been made in the debate addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering. Therefore, as regards the text of the draft law in the text of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering, the provisions governing the composition of the National Volunteering Development Committee are amended on the basis of and in line with the emphasis on the need to amend this provision during the debate in the first reading at the HS session. It is pointed out that it is necessary to amend the provision in order to make the majority of the members of the National Committee for Voluntary Development the representatives of civil society organisations. The proposal has been accepted, and the number of representatives of volunteers or civil society organisations engaged in volunteering has been amended, thus achieving a proposed balance between representatives of state and public administration bodies and representatives of civil society organisations. The following is proposed to adopt the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56125	We have a lot of replicas, so please stay. The first replica of the esteemed representative Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56126	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. What would you say to these valuable volunteers and volunteers who write projects to improve their community and apply to EU funds or national sources of funding, and then such projects get those who first submit such projects, means the fastest finger, we don't even have to talk about how much it discourages them, what would you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56127	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56128	It is difficult to answer this question because we believe that we are therefore following the rules that we have received, if it is determined that this is the best way we will follow, but we believe that time has shown that there is a lot of irregularity then it is not the best solution, so we think that we will also work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56129	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56130	Respected secretary of state. During this second reading and in our first reading, we asked a clear question on the Committee on Health about the regulation of volunteering for medical or medical activities. You have not accepted some of our proposals, and in fact there is still an all-explanation, so there are some misunderstandings and difficulties about it since the associations are not health care activities and in some ways cannot recognise the specificities of health care. What would you say is some kind of hodogram, then? Of course, health care professionals can volunteer in different institutions and through different ways, so it doesn't have to be just through associations, so what would you say is a hodogram if a short or long-term volunteering is a matter of health profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56131	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56132	Thanks for asking. So, as we said yesterday, it is that this cannot be regulated solely by the Voluntary Law, but it is inter-resorial cooperation on other positive regulations that should also be amended and thus can be affected. And here's what we said, of course, that we support and that, in any case, we need to regulate what we're going to keep working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56133	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56134	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected secretary of state. When it was the first reading of the law then a lot of us pointed out the fact that volunteering would be good, especially for young people to be some extra points or advantage in enrolment in high school, when enroling in colleges or other things. You are part of the objection you have indeed accepted for these remarks you have said that it is not possible to define them in this bill but that the subject is some other regulation. I can generally agree with you that some other regulations that regulate it need to be changed, but I wonder if you have made any contacts, have you discussed, whether perhaps you are colleagues from other resolutions here are primarily about the resources of science or education and resor, let's say, work with these remarks that simply when some other regulations are being prepared to take care of it. I'm sure that would be good. We think volunteering is really something positive and it would be good for young people if they were somehow stimulated and rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56135	Thank you for this question. So it's something we're aware of, and we agree absolutely that it should be supported and that it should be valued by young people who volunteer, but as we have already mentioned, and you yourself have said in your question that it is also about other resources. Of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education, we are discussing and agreeing on how it is necessary to change, and we will certainly insist that this change be made, or that it is worth volunteering for young people, and that in some ways it is assessed and that they have priorities for both employment and enrolment in schools and universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56136	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56137	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. After the adoption of the Voluntary Law in 2007, we can consider the year to be somehow zero at the start of monitoring and counting and recorded number of volunteers or certain volunteer hours and thereafter for the next ten years according to the available data in 2019. Croatia had approximately 64,200 volunteers and over 3 million volunteer hours. However, the fact is that statistics show that the largest number of volunteers is still involved in the work of civil society associations. I am interested in the fact that you are actually the founder of the Voluntary Centre in Zadar I am interested in your opinion on this, what do you think about this and the need to involve more volunteers, motivation and stimulation for volunteering in educational institutions and social care institutions as well as in health institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56138	Thanks for asking. As far as statistical indicators are concerned, I must stress that we are not completely satisfied here because there must be a much larger number of volunteer hours here and there are a lot more volunteers than it shows, so, of course, we have to perfect it. We want to organise a public campaign that would further highlight volunteering, and here is the experience of the establishment of the Zadar Volunteer Centre in 2008. I can say that we have really made progress, that we have joined all educational institutions across Zadar and Zadar County and I can say that here is the best proof that we have entered almost all the pores of society, so here I can be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56139	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56140	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. My question is to control the work of volunteer centres. They have a very wide range of diapazon actions and very easy to see on their websites they can also see that they are engaged in certain jobs that are not, which can be ideologically colored and which can also be related to some kind of political action, not necessarily, but can, so I am interested in which segment and in what way, since now, by this Law, they have one greater importance will be to control the work of volunteer centres in order for them to focus precisely on what they are intended to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56141	So as in each segment, as well as in the work of volunteer centres, of course it is necessary, not only desirable but also necessary to control the work, so that, of course, volunteer centres, as well as all other civil society organisations as public institutions, all have to work towards the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and that we need control, which we will also, here is the adoption of this Law even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56142	The next replica is Urša Raukar-Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56143	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. By teaching on the replica of Mrs. O'Donnell's esteemed representative. Bedekovic, I would ask you to specifically explain the reasons for the change in attitude in the National Committee for Volunteering Development, which, unlike the provisions so far, goes in favour of the public sector. So so far, that ratio has been 10:11. Why am I asking that? It's simply because volunteers are the most coming from civil society organisations and in this way it's being questioned how they're going to decide, because it's being decided directly on their work, so I'd like to ask you, if you can be kind enough to explain to us why it's changed now in relation to having 10, here it is, 10 representatives. Civil society organization and 11 in the public sector? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56144	Well, thank you. Thank you for asking, but I don't think you did, that you didn't explain this well. In fact, we have changed and on the basis of the objections, we have accepted the remarks and we have respected it, so it is 10 representatives of the public sector and 11 representatives of civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56145	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56146	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state. Of course this law is welcome. In fact, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have a long tradition of volunteering, namely, mostly the most volunteers were also encouraged and gathered around the town's Red Cross society, i.e. in general around the Red Cross organization where volunteering has been done since the smallest days of school age through symbolic memberships, through various intergenerational solidarity programmes, and we do not need to stress the importance of volunteers, as they have also contributed to the care of exiles, refugees in the Homeland War and now in the Banovina earthquake. However, organisation, encouragement, campaigns are projected, but I might draw attention to the need to encourage both institutions and institutions to accept volunteers, to monitor and educate them in the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56147	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56148	Thank you very much, thank you very much, distinguished MPs for this observation. Well, here, and as longtime director of the Institute of Social Care and President of the Association of Social Workers in Zadar County, I can say that we have just locally encouraged volunteering and almost no day has been given to someone from the local community from kindergartens, schools, organizations of public, private, that he did not participate in volunteer work. Also, I would like to commend corporate volunteering, namely, it's a word to companies that are also organised and one part of their working time and free time are given to these very institutions that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56149	The next replica of the respected representative, Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56150	Perhaps only a small correction, namely, the question should be why, since 19, we know that the deputy is now 21 and has not been increased for the benefit of civil society, therefore the independent experts have been reduced, only to 3 of which were once 6 and 6 were selected by the civil society of independent experts, and three were elected, civil society, and three were elected by the public sector. So, the question of why we have 21 out of 19 and it is to the harm of civil society, but my question does not apply to that, I refer to Mrs. The Dark-Taritash who asked about how we value volunteering, I'm interested in the National Programme for Volunteering Development, the first draft was created in '13. Sir, he's waiting for adoption. Last draft since '20. Until '24, he went through a public consultation last year. The question is, since it will now be able to have incentive measures, when we will discuss it in the Assembly, it may have been an opportunity to do so in parallel.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56151	Well, we won't, unfortunately, do it parallelly, but here, the first time we get to the line, we'll deal with it, or we'll work on getting into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56152	Thank you to the secretary of state. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want... And if you'll excuse me, Maja Grba-Bujević, honourable MPs, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56153	Mr. Vice President, the secretary of state. Healthcare professionals, doctors and nurses are currently volunteering for vaccination, although they are not working for their institution, but are volunteering for another vaccination facility. This is an example of good practice, such examples we have very much what counterpart Marić says, so we can volunteer in the health system and in the activity in which we actually work, is whether, otherwise, it would not be possible, but actually it is possible in this case. It's a good example of good practice, a lot of volunteer doctors and nurses, and I think you should actually invite as many people as possible to participate in volunteering for this vaccination because there are a lot of nurses in the social system that I know some people would certainly respond to. Well, here's what I'm asking you to do, and then you're going through your ministry a little bit of that volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56154	Dear MPs, I thank you for this excellent proposal. Anyway, we'll do it. Otherwise, I can say that in our system there are a large number of employees in the social care activity, that it also volunteers in other institutions, and of course what you said now that it is most important for us when it comes to vaccination, of course that this one will continue to encourage them, although many of them are doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56155	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, okay. Then we open the debate. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, the first debate was attended by a respected representative, Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56156	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, respected State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the first reading, this proposal for amendments and the addition of the law has not been overly modified, and I must point out that I am really sorry that some of the suggestions that the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports had not been respected, but the fact is that it is a suggestion that inter-resorship cooperation is required because what the Committee has suggested is that volunteering among other things is taken into account when it comes to entering higher education institutions because it is a practice that has been present for many years in developed countries, mainly in the United States, where a university is not even possible to register potential students if it has not been volunteered somewhere before, since it is a socially useful work and one showing concern for society. Therefore, the Committee was also of the opinion, here and today, we stressed at the session once again that we should work in this direction that and in the Republic of Croatia, the amendments and additions to the laws that will come to us in this high house are aimed at harmonising the laws that regulate this area. The fact is, we need this interdepartmental cooperation, but I don't think it's ever too late to start working in that direction. Volunteering in the Republic of Croatia has increased and this confirms the number of volunteers and volunteers' hours. And this kind of volunteering big heart of our people was best seen after an earthquake in Banovina, which is one of the most recent examples when volunteers from all over the country came to help the unhappy and once again showed that our people know every situation when help is really necessary and necessary. Volunteering does not know the upper age limit, status, sex, education, the only prerequisite is goodwill and desire to help those who need help. In doing so, I must point out that volunteers are co-workers, not free help. They need to be thanked, they should not be called as Mr. Trut did when he accused the cheerleading groups that were first on Banovina of not caring for personal safety. I’m often in the field and in contact with organizations that care about the protégé, complaining about the numerous administrative obstacles they face in their work, but what they point out as positive are volunteers who are always ready to help. What I must point out is the increase in corporate volunteering and here and from, from this pay phone in this high house, I will commend all companies that have recognised volunteering and organized employees and allow them to volunteer during their working hours in cooperation with the local community because it is something that should really be commended. Namely, the research outside was done, and I'm only going to say one thing, it's a Boston College research center for... which has been implemented in America on 236 economic operators where, where it has been established and confirmed by this research, support programmes to the local community have a positive impact on the reputation of the economic operator, but also on the attraction and retention of quality employees, which means that these benefits from volunteer work are not only for the local community but also for the economic operator and employees through increasing their satisfaction and motivation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that many companies have recognized and through volunteering employees promote the values that are part of the volunteering process. First, I think of solidarity, tolerance, and responsibility to the community as fundamental values promoted by volunteering. Therefore, any changes that make this volunteering system more effective are desirable and welcome. I'm a little surprised by what is called a language improvement of the law in this proposal, and then the words "volonter" and "volonter" change the word "volonter". My own previous language expression was acceptable because I don’t see the problem with using words for women and men. I don't see why this change that uses for two sexes is one word, so to me, it's personal and the Homeland movement is unnecessary, so I don't see why they would call it a language improvement in this proposal that's ahead of us. What is the same in this, in these amendments and additions, these are changes relating to the work of volunteer centres. I have said little about this and about the respected secretary of state, namely the regional volunteering centre in Osijek, among other things, to strengthen skills and shape attitudes, stressing the formation of attitudes and behaviours which are the basis of the social political engagement of citizens to be committed to the idea and value of democracy. There is no one against democracy, however, but volunteering and social political engagement do not somehow go together, and that is why I asked a respected secretary of state who will control the work of volunteer centres so that they will indeed deal with what they are intended to do because we finance them among other things and with public money, or with funds coming from ministries and various public institutions. So taxpayers' money. How effective they were in the Voluntary Centre Osijek best says turnout in the elections, and especially in the city of Osijek the turnout in the last local elections was absolutely nothing, among the worst in the country and then we can say that the Voluntary Centre in Osijek did not do anything about it. I personally don't understand why the volunteer centre is engaged in such a program unless it wants to recruit and indoctrinate volunteers for certain political options because it is known that political action and activists without volunteers can hardly have a future. And finally, in principle, I'm going to say that the Homeland Movement will support amendments and additions to the Volunteering Act. We believe that in many situations the Croatian people have shown their great heart, and institutions are often those who do not follow the events on the ground. An earthquake in Banovina is the last situation that confirmed it. It is therefore necessary to create a legal framework that will monitor the situation on the ground and to regulate this area in a satisfactory way for all stakeholders involved, and especially for the people of the Republic of Croatia who are volunteers and who want to be involved as volunteers. I expect volunteer centres to deal with what they were founded for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56157	Next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, Honored representative Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56158	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and here are several colleagues, we have before us in the second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteership, which was adopted in 2007, and then the amendments were 2013. I'll go from the end to the beginning this time. So we always recognize the good heart in extreme situations. Extreme situations when you have floods, extreme situations when you experience earthquakes, extreme situations happen to you when fires happen to you. So these are extreme situations, and then in these extreme situations, we really always stress that the work of volunteers who first feel, first come out, first take account, I don't have to tell you how many images of the last earthquake that was in the area of Banovina when actually volunteers took on the role of some institutions. It's not the point of volunteering to take over the role of institutions. The point is what we need to think about volunteering, which is in normal conditions, normal ways. Some others, some nations, some countries have a really long volunteering tradition. I don't know, 15 years ago, I was on an official trip to Israel, and it was common for big corporations, big corporations to volunteer one day a week. So volunteering is work for the common good. So, volunteering then was the situation there that was an awful lot of old people living alone and it was one of the ways, but also other ways of volunteering. As someone here has already said, there is a tradition in some other countries where young people, when they volunteer, make sure that when they enrol in high school, when they enrol in colleges, in some doctoral studies where it is their benefit, it would be good if it were a benefit to us and related and with employment. As I said in the reply to the State Secretary, I understand that this could be regulated, that it should be defined in some other regulations, but the Government is a single body and it would be good to take care of it. So, with this amendment and the addition of the law that we will support as we have done and the reading process values volunteer work, criteria are established. As the State Secretary of State noted, we are going to change and supplement the law that the goal is to improve some of the things that have been seen on the way that, that they are not good that they should be improved and some things added. So volunteering with us is regulated in 2007 and we already have some experience, we already have certain knowledge, we know what and how to do and what to do. So basically we have amendments and additions to the law that will improve certain provisions, and then we will see through application whether this really has achieved everything that is. But we always have, so it's always the formal part, the law can be your best possible, it can be best defined, but then we come to real life and real law enforcement, and that's what should be taken into account further. So you should take care of something that was a problem, and it was a long-term volunteering of minors and me glad, we recently had this debate about.../incomprehensible/... The Ombudsman's report on children and those recommendations issued by the Ombudsman for children is about the protection of children and volunteering, that in this Amendment and the addition of the law on this account has been kept. So, here when we talked about the counsel's recommendations for children, then we pointed to the fact that the problem with these recommendations that are adequately not being incorporated into certain legal proposals, here's the account. Something that was in our time, I'm talking about young people only now, during times of normal, and also for various reasons, it used to be economic reasons, and sometimes it was quite another, and that's the relationship between volunteering and traineeship, so it was a long-term volunteering problem, so it was a traineeship problem, and it's a good thing that through this amendment and the addition of the law, it tried to regulate it. If it's going to be the best way, we'll see about that. But, some messages, so we're talking formally about one regulation here, we're talking formally about one law, we're talking about, let's say, this is one amendment and an addition where the proponent of the remarks that were, we can't say, we can't say, the proposer took care of the comments and what was acceptable and what he thought was acceptable and accepted, which in some other, with some other regulations, is not quite the case. But those messages we need to give from this pay phone are a lot wider. We from this booth need to give a message and send a message about the importance of volunteering. We should send a message that volunteering is important from the earliest age of life, so all our life and beyond is the importance of volunteering. Volunteering is a help, volunteering is actually a way of life. We have a real situation today and it will be seen in Croatia that we have more and more people living alone. People who live well, who can even live on their own, do not choose to live in homes for older and impossible because this is acceptable to them, but something they lack is society. Something they're missing, someone with them going to the theater, I hope that this theater, this unfortunate crown, that it will soon be history, behind us. They need someone like that, they're going to be some kind of partner for something, and it's one of the kind of volunteering. We've been kind of neglected, but we have to take care of that. We have to keep an eye on it, processes happen in society, and they happen independently of us. Some of the options that were, and that's what we were saying yesterday when it was the Retirement Act, that things change as well. Things change a lot faster than we want or what we're prepared to do. Volunteering really should be messages from this pay phone, volunteering should be a way of life. Volunteering, each one by his own action in that part that he could, which could contribute to either a group or help others. It must not happen to us, and that is very often happening to us, that when we have some excesses in society, to remember that some laws need to be changed or then, we stress the importance of volunteering. The importance of volunteering should be emphasized all the time, I am having this debate in this sense and I am experiencing it. So the amendments and the additions to the law are something that is better, I'm sure, I'm always sure it can do better, but every law I read in a way, let the law live, see what the problem is, when you see what the problem is, you solve the problem. You can't think of all the problems, even when you make up or come up with the best possible legal solution, then reality will deny you. I would like in reality to really make as many people decide to volunteer, not just those who are young, not just young age, but all lifes, and really need to point out, to end I will say, the importance of corporate volunteering because it actually shows that society is moving forward. What's the task of being behind each, every time society takes a step forward, and I'm sure volunteering can help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56159	The next debate is on behalf of SDP's representative, Ivana Posavec Krivec, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56160	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. Today we are talking about a valuable law that most clubs agreed in their first reading that our common good is and that we actually have the opportunity to improve the important area of action of Croatian citizens. At the very beginning, I will say that the SDP Club will support the final draft of the law by amending and supplementing the Voluntary Law because they represent an improvement in the spirit of continuity policy and continue to be subject to previous changes. In order to make a constructive contribution and further improve the proposed bill, the SDP Club will also submit an amendment to the final proposal of this Act. In the SDP, we believe that volunteering should be conceived as an incentive mechanism for participation and promotion of society and community in which citizens and citizens live. It must also be networked and easily accessible in order for interested, mostly young people to participate in the local, regional, national and global level, building the society they deserve. Through volunteering, individuals, especially young people, acquire professional competences, develop and acquire valuable experiences that are immense potential for their personal and professional future, and also actively contribute to social progress. The benefits of volunteering are broad and undisputed for volunteering, for volunteers, for organizers of volunteering, for users, and for society as a whole. It is therefore necessary to develop a wide and systematic network of incentive measures such as further development and promotion of international volunteering programmes, monitoring and mentoring competences acquired by volunteering and recognising volunteering as experience in employment. That's something we talked about in our first reading, and that's something we don't want to give up at the SDP Club. We believe that the amendments to the law on, we do not need to wait for a long period of years again, but if there are political and social responsibilities and wills that these changes can be intrusive and come much earlier in order to just value these thesiss that most of us here in HS are actually talking about and defending them. The objective should be to improve existing incentives and legal frameworks, as well as to further stimulate the development of volunteer centres. We therefore believe that it would be necessary and good to do additional steps in the draft of this law. We also feel it is necessary to encourage volunteering in the direction of helping elderly people, but also vice versa. For example, by encouraging young people to help older citizens, it is necessary for young people to meet all segments of society and the community they live in. On the other hand, retired teachers, for example, can help young people master school material as a contribution to the community. Such a practice of promoting the development of a more human and solidarity society strengthens the volunteer sector. The European funds we have often heard about here in HS lately are now seen as a means of encouraging volunteering aimed at intergenerational solidarity through associations and other forms of association of citizens. As we know, the objective of amending and supplementing this legislative proposal is to bring it into line with the current situation in the field of volunteering, and to remove existing obstacles related to the application of the current law. It is extremely important to stress that this proposal was created in cooperation with the civil sector or volunteer centres, with all 4 and also the National Committee on Volunteering Development. Therefore, we are pleased that the motioner has taken note of the first reading debates, and in relation to the first reading of the amendments and the provision which prescribes the composition of the National Committee for Voluntary Development in such a way as to make the majority of the members a representative of civil society organisations. It is good that these amendments will also facilitate the application of the laws to volunteers and improve the work of the National Committee for Volunteering Development. We all know that this is a roof law on volunteering and that it regulates the fundamental principles of volunteering, conditions, rights and duties. But we all know that we also miss implementing acts, and we want it on our agenda as soon as possible, or on the government's agenda. This is why we want to stress the importance of volunteering for the development of the modern and progressive democratic society that we are seeking in the SDP. One of the basic values of democracy is citizens, precisely citizens who are actively involved in all areas of social action. Being active and responsible are the basic virtues of every citizen, but also of organizations that involve volunteers in their work. These organizations are recognized, they're more valuable and we're proud of them. In our understanding volunteering is most often associated with direct help from others, which is like voluntary work in the homeland for older people, in youth associations or in many different forms of volunteering such as editing public spaces, actions, camps and a number of other humanitarian and cultural events, sports events and activities. These are all the activities we face every day. Specific amendments, the amendment proposed by the SDP Club. We rely on the proposal that the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering in Art. 11. which is changed in section 3 as regards volunteering in the provision of services to children and persons with disabilities, older and powerless persons or sick persons or persons who are deprived of their business skills, we set additional limits. We do not believe that persons who have been convicted or are being prosecuted for any of the crimes against humanity and human dignity should be allowed. Namely, the offences in that chapter of the Penal Code are some of the most difficult acts a person can commit. It is unimaginable that people who are involved with criminal acts such as genocide, crime, aggression, terrorism, torture, human trafficking and the like work with vulnerable groups in our society. In addition to the fact that vulnerable persons could become victims of criminal acts, they could have an extremely bad influence. Furthermore, we do not consider that persons who are legally convicted or who are being prosecuted for any of the offences against human health or persons who are legally convicted or who are being prosecuted for some of the crimes against property or persons who are legally convicted or who are being prosecuted for some of the offences against public order should be equally involved in volunteering for the services provided to children, persons with disabilities, older and powerless persons, sick persons or persons who are deprived of their business skills. This amendment will be addressed by the SDP Club during the debate, and we hope that you will consider it in the spirit of constructive improvement of this bill. We are aware that not everything proposed in the first reading is possible to change now in this lawmaking, but we do want to stress why it is important for us to recognise volunteering as an experience in employment. We are all aware of the benefits that volunteering provides for both the individual and the community, and all mechanisms need to be used to promote this volunteering and to motivate young people to get as much involved in it as possible. And in our first reading, we said that we had to learn about volunteering for the youth. I'm not wearing this badge today, volunteering, so I'm growing. Since the youngest days, since preschool, and you have recognized that through your programs we should actually involve young people in volunteering, but when we have included them and when we have motivated them, then we need to volunteer somewhere and value them, somewhere we need to reward them, we need to give them the chance to have the advantage of volunteering and giving their pain to the development of society that they and society are worth it to them. It's a fee that we here from this pay phone are investing as a contribution to improvement and development, and we believe that if not today, maybe it's not possible and we understand that because it's different laws that need to be harmonised, but in any case it stays somewhere on the agenda, on the agenda of future changes, because this morning we hear that our plan, the recovery programme, is related to a number of reforms. In these reforms, we believe that we need to change society for the better, and the change of society is starting from small steps. Let's make this one of the stocks so we can be better company tomorrow. So on behalf of the SDP, I repeat, we copy this law and we believe that you will recognize our intentions and that we will soon see each other on some new proposals that you will respect and what the opposition has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56161	The next debate is on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Commissioner Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56162	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished State Secretary with the co-worker. In the context of today's debate on amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law, I would like first of all to highlight and remind us all once again of the invaluable importance and role of volunteers and volunteering in the community. In today's society, when there is a ruthless race for profit on the one hand, and on the other, the struggle for naked existence every minute, let alone the hours, days, weeks and months of someone's free time invested in the community's general good are of invaluable value and deserve the gratitude of all of us. Volunteers and volunteers are the ones who will be the first to help when needed, will also help when the system and its institutions fail, when formal procedures and various other bureaucratic gaps require an apology for why they do not do something, rather than the way they do it. Volunteers will jump in and plant their backs and when other resources run out and when the only pay for doing that wonderful sense of satisfaction is that you are for your community, for your neighbor known or unknown, you have done something good and useful, something that makes you a small, but important wheel in a nice story that shows that man can still be human. And volunteers and volunteers don't ask you for much, they don't expect any special reward for their work, engagement, knowledge, for all that selflessly and free donations to the community. They are not looking for any big pomp about what they are doing, but they would certainly like to see what the community in which they operate recognises, that the institutions that have tools and competences create conditions and frameworks, as well as those in which volunteers will give their maximum, in which they will do in the best way what they do so well and successfully, give themselves, their spare time and many other resources for the benefit of the wider community. These amendments and additions to the Law on Volunteering are unfortunately only cosmetical again, mainly dealing with formal alignment with EU legislation and bring nothing fundamentally new and important, nothing that would help solve some of the specific problems and needs of volunteers. I have warned of some of these problems and needs already from this pay phone, hoping that the amendments and additions of this law will be heard. I would like to remind, for example, how I have made an appeal to many volunteers and volunteers, many civil society associations that are running for EU funds and national sources of funding. It's about what happened. the fastest finger, i.e. absurd practice, that the candidate projects are valorised, and ultimately finance not based criteria that will define the best, best quality or most needed project but the resources allocated to that project that first arrived. The fastest finger I said then, and I'm going to repeat it this time is probably a good-looking joke in television shows or other entertainment programs, but in such serious things as volunteer projects and programmes, or their always difficult funding, such trivially called criteria really have no place. And I repeat, I convey to you the views of people from the field, many representatives and representatives of associations and organisations, civil society actors, valuable volunteers and volunteers, so people whose activities except for their goodwill and all that selflessly give depends on public funding. And if what starts with is a trivial and unfair method that very conditionally valorizes someone's work, ideas, initiatives, then you gentlemen have given a big splash of what they do to you and people. Another example from the practice to which I will remind or warn happened recently in the Istrian county, but it could and could happen anywhere. It is an initiative for the citizens of Pula and Istria to help their Hospital in Pula or local staff who know this very well at this time of the pandemic to make superhuman efforts for the health system to function as best as possible under the given circumstances. Of course, health care professionals throughout our beautiful, not only in Istria, not only in Pula, they all deserve our endless gratitude and support. And that is exactly the kind of gratitude and support they wanted to show and give to the citizens of Pula and Istria to their hospital, their doctors, nurses, other medical and non-medical staff of the General Hospital in Pula. During April of this year when the situation with the covid pandemic was very critical, and the hospital system at the limits of endurance and the hospital itself urged its citizens to assist in the work of the hospital as volunteers. Apple's bearing fruit, a large number of volunteers have come forward to help. But when human humanity and altruism seemed to print another beautiful page, what was happening so often in our country happened. The initiative failed because the law does not foresee such a possibility of volunteering. With great disappointment both sides and hospitals and volunteers, the idea had already failed at the beginning, and the hospital was only left to thank all potential volunteers who showed good will and willingness to help. But unfortunately, this failed initiative should also be one of the motives for us to start concrete changes in the volunteering system. Not only in health institutions but also in other similar situations and circumstances when volunteering would be welcome, but because of the strict regulations and unadjusted legal frameworks, it is simply inconclusive. Because like I said, the valuable volunteers and volunteers we have in Croatia really don't expect too much for their work and selfless engagement, but then let's be at least so correct so let's not hold them back from what they're doing. Let's bring laws and regulations to an adequate state and needs in the field. In the scratch we create our volunteers and volunteers frameworks that will help them work, not those that will demotize them and demoralize them, so God forbid and turn away from all that they do for their community, for all of us. I'm sure that's the minimum those people deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56163	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56164	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable State Secretary ofpleikos, colleagues and colleagues, we all do things in life that are not paid for, but we do it out of love or out of desire to truly help someone. We give thousands of hours to others by reading for example. stories to children in departments suffering from malignancies, helping in homes where there is a palitative patient, some clean environments, some remove garbage from parks in front of their houses or other people's houses, there's actually a lot of ways to help in the community we live in. This is exactly what volunteers do and what volunteering represents, but also such things are not recognized enough in society, they are not appreciated enough and they are not encouraged enough to involve people in the volunteering system. Although volunteering is most often associated with direct assistance from others, for example from these examples that I have cited, volunteering is also considered to help organise cultural events as well as collecting funds for an association and something else. And why are we doing this together? We give our whole lives, give our free time, knowledge, and skills that we have acquired in life without pay. Why? Because it brings us great satisfaction because we are useful and help someone. For high school students volunteering can be an excellent opportunity to expand their views outside the classroom, to develop learning some new skills, and to gain experience and knowledge. Volunteering enables children to try in several different areas of work so that they may eventually choose their lifelong calling more easily. Older people volunteering can do much to adapt to, say, the transition to retirement or to the preservation of physical health through movement, the reduction of social isolation or other examples. It has also been shown that volunteering at an elderly age can reduce the symptoms of chronic diseases, and in addition older people through volunteer work can make a very, very big contribution to others around them by giving all their knowledge and infinitely great experience. In this way, mutual benefits for third - age people are reduced by depression and loneliness. These aren't irrelevant things. In addition, everyone gets the opportunity to become a responsible member of the community and to learn and gain valuable experience by helping others. The data collected over the last 10 years from 2009 to 2019 clearly indicate an increase in the number of volunteering organizers or received organised volunteering reports as well as an increase in the number of volunteers and volunteering hours. The total number of volunteers increased as much as 4 times in 10 years from 2019 to 2019 and is now around 65,000 known volunteers. I'm sure that number and their 3 million-dollar hours are much bigger because a lot of volunteer hours and actions that don't actually go through any reported projects. According to this trend of growth over the past 10 years, it is realistic to expect that these figures will continue to grow what should certainly be encouraged. More and more media are being monitored for volunteer activities and people who participate in volunteer activities, and that is something to encourage and that is something that we should all work on together. The new law revises the provisions and harmonizes them so that volunteering in Croatia works even better. According to the legal provisions that are now in force, volunteers can be associations, foundations, religious communities, public institutions, tourist communities and other legal entities not established with the aim of obtaining profits, non-profit legal organisations, state bodies as well as units of local and regional self-government. The amendments to this law also propose the volunteering of a business entity defined as legal persons operating on the market with the aim of obtaining and volunteering them for the benefit of the community, which must be mandatory in cooperation with the organisers of volunteering, as they would then say under control and which their employees carry out voluntarily and which do not constitute their work obligation. It's a normal practice in the world, and I'm glad we're headed that way. In this way, we will bring volunteering closer to those who participate, as well as to those who are in need of the volunteer hours we provide them. In our country, the important segment of volunteer infrastructure and logistics are these very volunteer centres that provide support and perform as volunteers and their.../incomprehensible/... activities contribute to their development. And volunteer centres deserve to be mentioned more often, they deserve us to participate more often in their work with our help and actually put wind in the back so that these volunteer centres can get even more power and the ability to do such a noble human job. The main task of volunteer organizers is to inform, promote, develop volunteer activities at local, regional and national level and provide different services related to education and assistance to volunteers in the field of volunteer management. So, when we read it all together now, we actually realize how important it is and actually a multidisciplinary part and that it actually takes a lot of people, professional people in their volunteer hours to participate, and it's also necessary for us to call small associations, but very important associations because they cover maybe one segment that few people need to be given full support in order for them to actually be able to do these programs in quality. When we talk about the financing of volunteer centres, the organizers of volunteer programmes can also be provided from different sources while the competent ministry has been actively encouraging the development of volunteer infrastructure in the form of co-financing of volunteer centres projects for many years through competitions for civil society organisations projects. Therefore, it is not important to mention that only in 2020, which we know that volunteering was and is impossible to work fully with its scope, has provided uninterrupted work for the 33 volunteering centres. This is what I commend you and I want you to continue, through the State Secretary, that this number of funding from the Ministry of Health's volunteer centres is increasing significantly. At the promotion of volunteering, the National Committee is also working, it is good that it has changed precisely on the NGO proposal, that it has actually changed the proportion of people who participate in this National Committee, so it will now be 11 in front of civil society associations, and 10 in front of associations, in front of the public sector, which I think is very commendable and that this is something that should really be changed. Volunteering is an area that is extremely rapidly developed, and the current law in certain parts makes it difficult to implement new initiatives in volunteering so that, for example, it does not recognise volunteer centres as a significant part of volunteer infrastructure that has a wide range of tasks, so it will now change by this change and I think it is also to support it. What is important to mention is that the bill further regulates the relationship between volunteering and traineeship as well as the concept of long-term volunteering. This is very visible in the implementation in the work of volunteer organizations, this long-term volunteering, and I am glad that this is now changing with this proposal for a new, amendment and addition of the law. What is important to mention is that the bill also complies with family law and further regulates child protection measures as part of the Ombudsman’s recommendations for children. The adoption of this law will contribute to a simpler implementation of the volunteering initiative, facilitate the work of volunteer centres and the recognition of their activities, facilitate the work of the board as the deputies are now acquired, remove certain doubts in the work of the traineeship and allow greater protection of children and other sensitive groups. No additional funding is required for the implementation of this law and the HDZ Club will be happy to support amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56165	The next debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have all witnessed, and we have personally engaged in volunteer activities in the crises that have hit Croatia in the past more than a year, 2 devastating earthquakes and the Covida-19 epidemic. In these crisis situations, once again, I do not know which time has confirmed the clear value and need of volunteering, which, apart from direct assistance, is also important in raising the general sense of community integration. An unforgettable picture of the massive help of the citizens of Bani who once again confirmed the developed high degree of solidarity of our society that citizens are ready to give each other a truly selfless hand of help. But the situation also showed the need for better organisation of crisis volunteering. These concrete amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law are certainly progress in the legal regulation of volunteering, but as usual there are always spaces for improving and defining certain situations such as just volunteering in crisis situations. We therefore propose that this proposal be complemented by the principles of volunteering community resistance in which the need for developing crisis volunteering models and including volunteers and volunteers is more precisely defined in all phases of planning and establishing a crisis response model. Not only as a participant, but as a co-creator. It is also proposed to define the role of volunteer organizers in taking all measures to protect and reduce the risk to the life and health of volunteers on the one hand and to protect the well-being and dignity of the users of volunteering on the other. Furthermore, we do not believe that it is appropriate to change the attitude of members of the National Committee for the Development of Volunteering in favour of public sector representatives in relation to civil society organisations, this would be 8:13, 8 for civil society organisations, and 13 for the public sector because it does not ensure an equal decision on issues which are specifically concerned by the organisation of the civil society of volunteers and their work. And today, on several occasions, we have heard from all sides of this assembly and the opposition and the rulings that they are the organizations of civil society and that they are bearers to say volunteering in the Republic of Croatia. We therefore propose and advocate to leave an existing article on the composition of the National Committee on Voluntary Development, in which the ratio of 10 representatives proposed by civil society organisations and 9 representatives proposed by the public sector is, therefore, the ratio of 6 representatives of public authorities, 7 representatives of civil society organisations and 6 independent experts of whom 3 propose civil society organisations, and 3 units of local self-government because this ratio and composition has proved to date in practice as one good model and there is no need to change it. Only three experts are now foreseen in the selection of the local community, and civil society has lost the opportunity to propose experts to the committee. Just add the appointment provision and the deputy board members. We also see in these amendments the possibility of recognising the role of volunteering in the civil protection system, so we suggest that it should be stated that volunteering can also be carried out through the operational forces of the civil protection system, which is now, of course, the reality so that, as such, it should be explicitly incorporated into the law. Everything we know today tells us that volunteering and civil society should be an integral part of the modern concept of civil protection that will take into account all knowledge, experience and the potential of civil activity and organisations. We also see neither the need nor the justification for replacing volunteers with the concept of volunteering in all articles under this proposal, especially because this amendment is explained as a language improvement. We do not see language disputed to remain listed both sexes, I guess we do not need to prove the role and contribution of women in volunteering. This amendment is seen as a step backwards in efforts to fight for gender equality and the proposed new provision of expressions used in this law, and they have the gender significance of being equal to male and female, we do not consider simplification or language improvement, but by avoiding both sexes through the entire text of this proposal. In particular, we warn of the need to act. In the 32nd of this proposal, the amendments shall be in accordance with Art. 32. The 14th century 5. The law on gender equality which says, all educated institutions as well as all others must in the content of certificates, certificates, licences and diploma using language standards in accordance with this law, citing professional qualifications, titles and occupations in female or male gender depending on the sex of the recipient, recipient of the document. We therefore believe that the current formulation of volunteers, volunteers, was more appropriate and accurate than gender equality, as well as the real situation in volunteering. Even more important to point out, the law is not enough to get a more favourable environment for the development of volunteering. The national programme for volunteering whose first draft, as we have already heard, was created in 2013. He's still waiting for adoption. The last draft passed a public consultation in June 2020 for 2020-2024. The draft is that it allows very specific measures to affect the development of volunteering as horizontal values in a number of social areas in education and education, youth participation, the creation of inclusive society, availability of volunteering, affirmation of good social values, the promotion of the business sector to contribute to the community, the promotion of local policies and support for volunteering, the development of crisis volunteering and the development of infrastructure for volunteering. So we appeal to the National Volunteering Development Programme as soon as possible in the parliamentary procedure. Finally, volunteering has an even greater value if it joins values that support social inclusion, equality, solidarity, community resilience and social engagement, promotion of shared responsibility and fundamental European values. In such a context, volunteering contributes to the European social model of security, peace, cohesion and prosperity, providing a framework for a constructive narrative on the future as an alternative narrative for those extremist and populist views. Volunteering actively opposes hate speech, promotes inclusion and tolerance and enables citizens to be directly active in the development of a future that is more difficult. Therefore, the Green-Left bloc club will support any and this legislative initiative that enables and supports better organisation and development of volunteering in Croatia. We will also submit our amendments to this concrete amendment. I would also take this opportunity from this pay phone to thank all volunteers and volunteers who, especially in the last crisis situations in hundreds and thousands, ran and helped selflessly to the limits of their human endurance and thank them for that, thanking them for all their initiatives and all their help. They make this society better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56167	Following individual debates, a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic, was first reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56168	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, as we all know, the volunteering system in the Republic of Croatia is defined by the Law on Volunteership, which, as we first said, brought to the Croatian Assembly in 2007 with one minor change in 2013 and what I would like to stress, therefore, if we analyse the available data of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy on Organized Volunteering then starting from that zero year, as I said in one replica, starting in 2009, the following year, the total number of volunteers increased and was 13.992 with 725.860 hours of volunteering, and then after that, in the next ten-year period we have an increase in both volunteers and volunteers' hours of volunteering and here according to the data available from 2019, the total number of volunteers was 24.280 with a total of 3 million 954 hours of volunteering hours. Of course, these figures, this is the 2019 statistics, today is 2021, and this figure is certainly much bigger and as far as volunteers are concerned, and as far as volunteering hours are concerned, and here I am really using the opportunity from this place to thank all volunteers for all the voluntary and noble activities that make up, in particular, everything that has been done in this area at the time of the devastating earthquakes both in Zagreb and in Banovina. However, what I would like to point out is that despite the increase in the number of volunteers and hours of volunteering and, of course, we can and should talk about positive examples and the increase in the number of volunteers involved in the various profiles of the organizers of volunteering and further, as I have already mentioned in one replica, the largest number of volunteers is involved in the work of civil society organisations, which is great and excellent. However, I believe that volunteering should, above all, be encouraged in educational and educational institutions, institutions and social care systems, health care, etc. And what I think is important to stress is that this really important segment of volunteer infrastructure is actually, exactly volunteering centres that support the organisation of volunteering and certainly contribute to the development of volunteering as a whole, and of course we know that their basic role is to promote and develop volunteering activities both at local and national level through providing different and this service. Of course, there is a major role in the financing of volunteer centres and volunteer programs and, of course, the resolution ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For many years, the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy has actively encouraged the development of volunteer infrastructure in the form of funding for volunteer centres projects through competitions for civil society organisations. According to the latest data, a total of 33 volunteer centres participated in the past 2020 with the financial support of the Ministry in the Republic of Croatia, of which 28 local and 4 regional volunteers participated. What we need to know and realise is that volunteering is an area that is developing extremely quickly and therefore I welcome the amendments to this existing law. The difference between the first and second readings is that we have already established the spells, makes this increased proportion of amendments to Articles 22 and 23, which amends Articles 21 and 22 where the number of representatives of volunteers or civil society organisations dealing with the development of volunteering is changed, so now we have a ratio of Articles 10 to 11 in favour of civil society organisations. Certainly, the National Civil Society Development Programme will contribute to a stronger, more intensive involvement of volunteers, and what I think is particularly important to put emphasis on awareness of volunteers in employers and related to fencing during schooling. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56169	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56170	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, here I am going to give you a chance, and from past debates, I think we all agreed that promoting volunteering could happen with value. We have seen that unfortunately in the law it will not be exactly what you have advocated that it is not just civil society, which unfortunately very often, and you know best and your sector is doing something that it does elsewhere, for example. a social service system, that some volunteers do something that a regulated state should do, but you were talking here about the importance of education and education. I remember in the last discussion that we agreed that some kind of valorisation should have exactly in education and education. Is it to the kind of points that would give a certain not only advantage to enroll in high school, if we can get to win the math test or Croatian language test, that some points bring and volunteering, so if you can really influence that kind of Kind of, maybe the HDZ amendment puts it in the law after all. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56171	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56172	Thank you very much, dear colleagues on the line. Yes, we discussed this and last time, we debated today on today's board and we all really all agree that volunteering is necessary in an adequate way to valorize, what I said, especially in employers as a sort of work experience, especially in young people who are first employed, and certainly as additional points in enrolment, i.e. additional points during schooling. However, in addition to the Law on Volunteering, i.e. volunteering, this problem is considered necessary to regulate some other laws, when it comes to education and education, i.e. the education and education system, but I agree with you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56173	The next replica, the next replica of a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague. Let's clear this up, however, the matter of members of the National Committee. So, according to the proposal, we have concretely 8 representatives of civil society, we have 3 independent experts who deal with volunteering and civil society on the proposal of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, so that's the same public administration that proposes experts, unlike the existing provision where there were 6 experts, of which 3 were proposed by civil, therefore organisations, and 3 was proposed by the public sector. So to conclude, it is still true that the ratio is now 13 representatives of the public sector compared to 8 civil society because these 3 experts cannot be influenced by civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56175	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56176	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I don't have the law on the bench, I have the law on the bench. What is the fact that the ratio of the number of representatives of volunteers and, or civil society organisations engaged in the development of volunteering has been changed and thus the proposed ratio of representatives of state and public administration bodies and representatives of civil society organisations has been achieved, ratios 10:11. ... We can, of course, have no more time, and I'd like to discuss, we can, after this debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56177	We've got another replica, the esteemed representative of the Ancient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56178	... esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Here it is, this law is, we see that you've been taking care of these volunteers ever since 2007, and it's always been complemented, that it must always be perfected because unfortunately, volunteers are mostly used in accidents, in some of this, this.../incomprehensible/... needy of these, please? Private... Which was quite said and I'm glad to see it now, it was short-lived and we have this long-term volunteering because we still see that the need for volunteering, or for older households that live maybe longer, in some isolated places, that these volunteers certainly do well to come to these people, I say, chop up wood, bring, clean apartments, take care of those older households who are this, and the rest, and I think that there should be a little more concern in those areas where people might be [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isolated and where they live in this isolated area. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56179	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56180	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague, thank you for your rep. Yes, and as you yourself have said, so this Law is additional, therefore, to these Amendments and Supplements, an additionally regulated term of long-term volunteering to better suit the real state, allowing, of course, the long-term volunteering of minor volunteers, so young people, indeed, and what is very important, with the disabling of greater protection of children and all other sensitive groups, and of course, this observation of the importance and need of volunteering when it comes to work and, I would say services, is whether, providing services to older people, older people of older age, there very volunteers can contribute because we have situations that our older fellow citizens, some of them simply do not decide at a late age for accommodation in homes for older and powerless, but remain in their homes, and of course, volunteers can certainly help in providing services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56181	Next individual debate, respected representative Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56182	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Chairman. Well, maybe for starters, since I couldn't give two replicas, I'd like to say, and I'm going to talk about promoting or promoting and evaluating volunteering that it's certainly too late to evaluate, yes, yes, or to ask employers, as it is. Bedekovic said that they, behold, value volunteering, we talked about the dangers that internships can certainly not be led, volunteering under internship and vice versa. Today, we may have made it a little less pronounced. You can't force employers to admit my volunteer hours that I can write in my CV, but how are we going to have those hours if we didn't, my question was, how are we going to promote volunteering in education? It's easy for lower classes, but to ensure that already in primary school, those who volunteered in the community, in their own community, have some points, some excellent advantage as there are different kinds of advantages for high school enrollment, and then from high school to college. It's promoting volunteering. There is something I would like to say about the promotion of volunteering in crisis situations, and here we have witnessed, in an earthquake affected area, which was at the beginning of non-organization or poor organisation of volunteering, and it has partly happened, and then we can talk about why there have been failures in the civil protection system itself, and you know very well how openhearted people flocked to Bania or Banovina to help and what it looked like the first days. But what's more worrying and those who go to Bani today will hear from people and will hear from those associations that are there or from the initiative, that unfortunately as it always is, yes, yes, yes, don't forget us. So the question is how to do both resistance and ensure that those initiatives that were self-inflicted and formed there survive. One reason, or I'd say, is that there's no value. I'll tell you how great we can be if we don't already have, we have, I don't know, annual volunteering awards, but if only civil society, civil society organisations value each other's work, they do some, I'd say, and a better synergy. Namely, estimating volunteering means promoting volunteering. So your contribution to, I would say, and in a crisis, the first crisis situation in Banja, but also the contribution that gives and at this moment several initiatives and associations in Bania, we have to graph them here, we have to say what it means to be with people every day and to do something that is a post-traumatic reconstruction of Bania, to do something that is, let's say, which is the system I forgot. So civil society didn't wait, the civil society associations made a reward. Also, for a reason, they probably have their own fund called the Fund for Others, so this kind of care for others and award the Nada Dimic Prize, also, one forgotten and kidnapped name, and this year, the Fund for Others has rewarded 3 associations that are currently working on Banija or Banovina. It's, you know or if you don't know, you can look at them all, people for people who have worked before the earthquake itself, but people for people at this point really care through different kinds of help in synergy with other associations or other foundations, such as the Solidarity Foundation, they build houses for people in Banja. People can't stay in containers, if I didn't tell you about the big rain that some of us were wearing our own tarp and our common banners, so they wouldn't cover our houses and cover their containers or stand in Bania itself. What is very important is that some of these associations, such as DoDo or Good Good Good, are seen in the title as well as concerned about those people who are on the edge of poverty. I'd like to point out one particular initiative, maybe because it's an initiative that has 30 field crews called Sloga, it's an informal initiative, they, what's the value of such initiatives? They work with local initiatives, the local community, work with the Staff, work with the Red Cross, they are from the first jobs of helping clean the terrain, cleaning the terrain, helping the statisticians to sign up and help people, find their own documents, what they are doing now, and that's what should be the plan for the recovery of Bania, which is, they have, they have projects of garden arrangements, biogreds, they've connected with alternative banks of old seeds where old seeds are kept, so they've connected with migrant organizations, in a community where there's a reward when you award such a reward to three associations or one is an association only that DoDo, Good Good Good, but the other is informal initiatives and platforms that have not come and gone and they work with citizens there and if we're not going to reward them, so small civil rewards, so we'll have more symbols, we'll have no money, we'll have to do it. We'll have because we're good people, when there's a crisis, we'll meet somewhere, and then we'll forget about those people who were in some accident. We also need to show solidarity and resistance and this volunteering in a way that is solidly kept in communities and that communities connect and, in fact, expand, that now these same affected people in Bania are helping other people, so we have to work on a better synergy. initiative and encourage volunteering. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56183	We have two replicas, first respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56184	Dear MPs, you and your colleague from the club mentioned volunteering in crisis situations. I don't know if you're aware that one part of it is defined in the Civil Protection Act. It says who organizes volunteers, who invites them, and how does he treat them? I don't know if there's a need to define the same things in two laws. Or, if that's how it's supposed to work, then we should put it in context with the other laws because... where they are actually already organized, or where it is clearly defined who will and will work, or who will organize them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56185	Thank you very much, but I initially said that unfortunately, and I said very carefully because here we have colleagues who are also involved more of course in civil protection itself, I said that unfortunately, she showed a crisis of failure and showed also the desolation of the organization and civil protection. We saw indeed the chaos of the first, at least some of us who were there. So it wasn't what we're talking about here, the real synergy. It doesn't matter that sometimes the two laws stand if they're in synergy because sometimes they'll just be, yeah, we don't have that recorded here, so neither one or the other won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56186	Next replica respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56187	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Boris, you mentioned one of a series of activities of associations that recognized that people in Banja need help different from the one we are always ready to give concretely maybe some food aid packages or something like that, so this association is about to give a tool so that these people can learn how to use their resources in the area they have better and how to actually allow them to stay there. It is a very, very valuable activity carried out by volunteers and volunteers and in this area, but this activity could not be carried out that one corporation or some people who have recognized that such projects should be funded and should be supported. There is now open this basic issue in Croatia is a lot of ideas, there are many possibilities, but there are still few of these funds that can be encouraged to implement good projects within a very short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56188	First I have to fix it, for example. Corporation, volunteering can do something about it if it has corporate support. Let's say the Foundation, the Solidarity Fund, if you look at not only transparently, from the first day that the funds were being paid by the citizens, then of course different companies, but it showed what to do with these funds. You have the right when at first we go volunteer then of course we wear and we all wear what was necessary, necessary supplies. But we should have a vision of what we're going to do next, so we should have such a vision of volunteers, and then it's certainly a vision, of course, that when we left the fifth time we said thank you, thank you we got the milk, we got the water, we got the hygiene supplies, so maybe the first time they've asked for dog food, but now people want to see how they're going to live there and can we support them and together create this life together, and then that's the idea of planting gardens and that, planting biofood. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56189	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56190	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I refer to the two items you mentioned at the beginning of your presentation, which is to promote volunteering and the question of employers and on their part the evaluation of volunteering. But there you should first point to what you are doing. The 11th says, and that is that it cannot be given volunteer jobs if there is some possibility that a number of jobs can be achieved through an act contract. Now there's a problem with having, like, in the field of health you have a chance, here's a brochure, 33 activities that could be volunteering. But why do I say cohesion, because a series of these activities can be found in the list and in the job description of those who work. Now, the second problem is that, specifically in these health institutions, you don't have full job systematization means you miss your employees, and you can't, on the other hand, actually give volunteers the opportunity to work because what you have to do is hire those who will work through a work contract. And yet it should motivate employers to accept volunteers at least for those activities for which there is no contract of action. [[Sander raider: time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56191	Of course, we all talked last time really shouldn't happen to volunteer, and many people understand that if I go to a health care facility or I don't know where to volunteer that I might have the advantage of being there and employed. So it can't be in health institutions volunteering replaced for internships, but also in the covid crisis there's no sure in the list of jobs that we all couldn't go and list people or at least give masks somewhere in places where it could have happened, there could have been some other list. What I think is a real employer if he's interested, of course no one can force him to do that, when someone comes to his interview and has his CV and if he sees everything he's been through, people write all the extra educations if he writes there that he has 100 volunteer hours or 1000 is sure to say, look, that man has made his contribution to the community. Next time, I'll tell you how to go to another country. They're doing it at the university. [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56192	Next individual debate, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56193	Thank you, Vice President. The secretary of state once more with the co-worker. My colleagues and colleagues. Through every debate today and last time on the subject of this law, we have all concluded together that Croatia is one unsanitary hot volunteer, people of goodwill who are always willing to help most in some disasters, tragedies, the most in situations that happen overnight and where we all show solidarity together. And that's really something we should be proud of, but also something that we need to be an example of, or other examples of, how to institutionalally install it and how to actually value what we already have among our citizens. So today I will actually try to introduce this individual debate to the general public through the promotion of volunteering, one project that bears the title "Loving for Volunteering and Sustainable Development in Schools" which, as part of the Swiss-Croatian Cooperation Programme, has been implemented by the Association of Our Children of Croatia together with partners, is the OS from Gospić and Slatine and the Society of Our Children Zabok. This is a project that was carried out on an annual basis from 1.5.2019 to 30.4.2021. means under no grateful circumstances in the circumstances when these schools worked, remember also in principle not only working with children in schools but also online programs, etc. It is important to stress that the general objective of this programme was to contribute educational institutions and civil society organisations to the development of volunteering, which is exactly what we are talking about here today and what we are trying to promote and set an example. There are good practices already in Croatia, perhaps we just need to take them and actually install them into new action plans. This is about sustainable development and active child participation in local communities in Croatia. There were a number of specific objectives and ideas that were to be implemented that were from strengthening and developing the competences of students, from training for volunteering, education for sustainable development in the field of rural development, which, by urban, was the launch and development of sustainable school volunteer clubs, volunteering programmes, and primarily in educational and educational institutions. The aim was to inform and raise awareness of the general population and citizens about the importance of training for volunteering and sustainable development and primarily to strengthen the capacity of school volunteer clubs. There was a large number involved, the number of children who spent a number of workshops, the workshops designed themselves, they participated in volunteer actions, study trips around Croatia, they met Croatia, they met friends, they had final stands, but they had the most important media visibility. This could all be realised because they had provided financial resources for the implementation of this project and a completed project communication plan that ended with 17 global objectives for sustainable development. What you would like only to underline here, all these volunteers voluntarily invest in personal effort, knowledge and skills, they invest it in a common benefit without the existence of the terms of payment of a cash prize or the claim of other property benefit. Three key elements that are recognised in almost any definition of volunteering in everyday use, free or voluntary investment of time, effort, skill, activities that are undertaken not because of financial or other property benefits but are aimed exclusively at the welfare of other persons or society as a whole. Informal forms of learning are particularly important to warn about values, the role and importance of volunteering, to enable the acquisition of experience by volunteering and through civic education to develop full capacity for volunteering social solidarity and active citizenship. So, this example of the programme and the project is available to everyone, everyone can apply it, and it would be nice if the ministry that financed it in part actually proposed to other ministries primarily through a system of education to find it as one pilot project available to all schools that might be interested in it through some additional, additional activity because it certainly showed that children have an interest in volunteering when given the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56194	We have several replicas, the first respected representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives Posavac Krivec mentioned the activities of our children's society, I know that you were extremely active and I personally participated in some of the activities you initiated, which I congratulate you on. You were also the head of local self-government, so here I would like to hear your review of a large group of volunteers, which are Croatian volunteer firefighters who have 150,000 in Croatia. I am personally a member of a voluntary fire company in Moslavina, which I am particularly proud of. These are people who save other people, their property, of course volunteering, by sacrificing themselves, by seizing out their time that may be meant for their families, but precisely in that desire to help, they never ask if it's the right time. And it was seen in the activities of Banovina that they were among the first to enter the field. I'd like to see your reference to that one population that's often forgotten, so let's just remember it when some big accidents, fires or floods happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56196	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56197	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr, I also congratulate you on your longtime engagement as volunteer firefighters, but this engagement of yours should actually be spoken of from another aspect. You're kind of raised in your family to be and that's what I've been trying to say all along through this debate. We need to raise young people so that they can call someone, some activity they like, and devote themselves to it, to see the welfare not for themselves, but for the community. You recognized it in a voluntary fire company because you were raised by your parents and your father for a number of years by volunteer firemen. And it is perfectly natural for you to appreciate such values and to be devoted to them in some way. And no activity in my term as local leaders has gone without the great involvement of a voluntary fire company, from sports, humanitarian and unfortunately a disaster of floods. We need to appreciate that, and we need to give these people one more confession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56198	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56199	Dear MPs, I will refer to your presentations that you had on behalf of the club when you said we would support this one, however, that you think there is still enough space to improve this law, but that we all need these proposals that we collect in.../incomprehensible/... laws, and that is particularly important when we look at the context of a representative that I have just replicated because what was chaos in Banovina was not because it couldn't have been done differently. So they were fine down there, I was down the same night there was an earthquake, the ones who had their command were well organized down there. So the firemen worked perfectly, but civil protection didn't work well. Why? Because he wasn't doing well at the crisis headquarters, and the crisis headquarters needs to organize volunteers. And if we put something else in this volunteer law about crisis situations again, we won't get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56200	Dear colleague Pavic, you've noticed well. This law is a roof, roof law and it should define what it is to volunteer, which are its obligations, which are its duties, but it must be horizontally linked to all other laws in order to apply through action plans and other activities. So we're in this sad situation that happened in the Bania in which I believe we've all been present in some way found that some things in the system don't work. We pointed at them from the very beginning. Here's where my colleague Petyr said that volunteer fire was working. That because they are organized, while other things that we have set up may be too late and we haven't devoted ourselves enough to them in that situation immediately ad hoc showed enough well-organized. So that's where we need to give time, but it needs to be recognized as our one weakness that we together can fix right through these action plans and modernization, I'll say, other laws. We don't have to wait 10 years to change this law again, let's change it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56201	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56202	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Posavec Guilty. At the end of your debate, you mentioned such a gentle subject of civic education, and I am absolutely sure that this is an issue that is extremely important, so with us, all things are being sprayed, so the topic of civic education at school has turned into something that shouldn't have turned into. So I am absolutely sure that children today need a special subject called civic education to learn about both financial literacy and democracy and about what Parliament is and what elections are, but also what we are talking about today, and that it is important to work for the common good. To help the community, help yourself, you're a better man, you're making better progress, so I'm sure everyone who gets and in a small part of their life decides to volunteer in any way feels good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56203	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56204	Thank you, dear fellow Dark-Taritash. A series of research has shown that all those people, children, young people, older ones, all who volunteer, have better developed self-esteem, have better developed social skills, have a better developed sense of helping others and the need for society. They simply acquire it through their way of life, through their determination. I tried to talk here today about some good examples of practice. Since our time is limited, I have tried to talk about children, but I have had many, many examples in Croatia, in units of local self-government that conduct civic education, it is a clear and visible difference how these children think, how these children are involved in other activities, which are their extracurricular content, how they spend their free time, how much they read and what they appreciate. So, I only appeal that what civil education recognized, for example, in the Primorje-Gorski County, in Rijeka or in some other areas, which tomorrow will recognise Zagreb or some third city, to make it a practice, a good practice in Croatia and to raise new generations that will be generally good in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56205	The next replica of the respected representative, Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56206	My question also referred to the importance of civic education and the very active,.../incomprehensible/... civil education and active citizenship. In order for our citizens to be active, we must first have civil education. You said what are the advantages. I'd say, if we have that, we have volunteering, and we have some prejudice to volunteer most often people who help, for example. Because other than crisis situations, because they may have family needs, whether they are parents with children with developmental difficulties, whether they are people who, of course, volunteer, see, I don't know, support older people. What's important is how we valorize the work. Until we introduce, as in Finland of 1600 hours of work, your employer admits 300 hours of community contributions. 300 hours. So you describe what you've been doing. More employers tell you, so that's more than 300 hours. I want to tell you We have to reward it, not just at school. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56207	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56208	Dear colleague Boric. That's exactly what we talked about today, more or less. On how much it takes for society to appreciate and evaluate the volunteering of individuals, regardless of their age, on their sex, on their orientation or anything else. So as long as society won't answer to value what we're investing in our time, our knowledge and all those skills that, and competences that we've acquired during life, we won't meet the meaning and purpose of volunteering. You know very well, that great slogan and the title of the funds coming from Europe, it was called Europe for citizens. Europe for citizens has just been a source of income that we may not have used well enough to further strengthen this segment of strong civil society in the Republic of Croatia which will then make this step, we still have the opportunity, we still have the chance and perhaps it is time that through all these proposals that we have made today, the legislator installs and begins to evaluate volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56209	And the last replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56210	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your truly excellent presentation. The small door you introduced to civil education is somehow attributed to your diplomatic experience, but you touched something else, you pointed out that volunteers are those who give themselves, their time, not expecting any property or other benefit. So once we've touched local self-government units that promote volunteer values, I'd just like to point to a termological discrepancy because we at unit level of local self-government have officials who are volunteers. However, they receive a volunteer fee which is actually paid in the amount of half the salary they would have received if they were not volunteers. I think it sends one confusion, and I think it's high time we talked about it openly in HS, so we can either change the terms or practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56211	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56212	Yes, dear colleague Oreshkovic, you've noticed that well. Indeed, this concept of volunteers in Croatia often takes on negative connotations, precisely perhaps to encourage these examples that most often come from politics. We all know very well what people in Croatia and what opinions they have about us who deal with politics and always think that we are primarily from some other initiatives. When we talk about local levels and officials at local level, then there is also a great example of just those who are really volunteering, but there is also a large number of those who are under the cover of volunteering, as you said and receive different fees that are often higher than the average income of individuals, average salaries, minimum plans, etc. And that's not a good example, that's what we all need to point out together, but maybe we should find some legal solution to separate these two things and define other concepts in the Law on Local Officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56213	Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56214	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here's for sure the Law on volunteering and volunteering is an extraordinary noble act of man, man to another man, me to you, you to me it's something that really is God-given, which God gives us that we are naturally the ones where wherever we are in the whole world we see only man helping man. Surely it's something we give society, man gives society, society gives to man. Volunteering has shown us throughout all these years around the world that where this one is already built institutionally quite well. In Croatia, in the 30 years since the Homeland War, we have shown that Croats have one special act of volunteering, helping, to feel for each other. Perhaps in church circles we must never certainly ignore the Red Cross that gives one special, one signal that is present in all social communities, but in church associations and in the church itself is an invitation which is special in all rows of Jesus, where young people around SKAC gather where they show their love that God's touch which gives us one presence where neither ideology, nor religion, nor nation is shown, but we breathe with God's presence of man for man. We have the Salesians at Jarun in the Principality where they gather young people who give one special act to each other in all social situations, where there really is one call here for all of us to see that it is one true and when we talk about civil education where they show one God's raising man for man. Volunteering, volunteering is one broad concept of man's society towards community. To us, the Homeland War brought an act where we all showed this love to man together, regardless of religion, nation, one love of touch, the closeness of all together. These natural disasters that have found us since the earthquake, the pandemic once again shows us this love of truth that we went without even thinking to be the most important ones. Surely certain that certain communities of our cheerleading clubs, defenders where the floods may have been among the first involved, we have heard the various communities of firemen throughout the year who are giving strength and pain to their lives throughout the year where they show themselves and where they often get hurt where we may be with little understanding, we think it's their job that in our country we haven't matured to think often that it's someone's work, when we look at the police, so much we could count on so often to keep it in one place closed. But it's important to work with young people, young people are open, young people give that sensibilism give that power of love, they have no prejudice. That's why in all church associations we have the most young people because they have no prejudice they give that love, they receive it and they give it. We may be a little involved in politics here in a different system of certain political organisations, but among young people there is no such thing. They receive and give, it's that nobleness we must learn and work on it. Surely in our schools it is very important, sure that schools are the beginning of what is given to young people, but today after 30 years of Croatian state existence we can be proud of all the troubles that we have been through that our youth has always been present, that people are always with each other and that we have 72 now that have been uncompromising throughout the world so that we do not forget them where young people have once again shown this one nobility, strength, the will to have no emotions, just emotions and how uncompromising they are for each other. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56215	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56216	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Deur. This year, we will mark the 10th anniversary of the European Year of Volunteering in Croatia, but what is more important and more important is that Croatian citizens and citizens in the final and Croatian people have shown in general again when it is most important, when it is critical, when it is crucial in times, above all pandemics, but also natural earthquakes, floods, refugee crises that not only human lives but the true human values of humanism, solidarity, care for needs are above all, above all, and we have again shown that we are together when it is most difficult. I believe that this Final Proposal of the Voluntary Law will continue in this direction to expand the network of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56217	Here's a thank you, Your Honor, I'm sure this law is good and it shows that we as a society are making progress. Surely in some time ahead of us, there will certainly be various changes, improvements, and that in some contexts, there will be an excellent law. We believe it's something that's the way to it. Surely you are right that throughout all these years the Croatian man has shown one strength. Now, unfortunately, in the very earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, we have had from the Red Cross, Caritas in our Sisak County in our bishop Kosic and all people of good faith, there is one commonity, strength, nobility, help, something that you remain breathless as a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56218	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Deur, you spoke of this one nobility, solidarity, one width that is manifested by man to man when he is in need through a system of volunteering. This clearly shows that there are things that can't be bought money because the love that volunteers express can't really be paid. What they taught me when I was a little girl is that the only thing that counts in life is the job that counts for love. And in that sense volunteering has this one noble breadth that we should perhaps appreciate and see more. You specifically talked about the contribution of the Catholic Church and church associations to this volunteer spirit and helping people. I would say that it should not be surprising because according to the social science of the church, every Catholic Christian is obliged to volunteer for at least two hours a week. So what young people are doing is that they're making a special effort right now is in the spirit of this science that we need to cultivate, and maybe somehow more consciously. to be present in society. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56220	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56221	Here's a thank-you MP, certainly that we as a society, as a whole, show and I think unfortunately the things that have been happening have led us to, to show that strength and nobility. Surely the church through its science gives one special whole of love and that is something that is most valuable. I personally and believe many people here are often what I see in associations within the church and I am often on Jarun with our Salesians and on the Prince, where I see the sea of young people, it's something noble, it's visible, it's something that a man must leave in one thought, thinking of what these young people draw such nobility from. And then you see that what God gives them that love is free of charge is with even greater love they express it to their own, to their community and to their people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56222	The next replica is a respected representative, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56223	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Deur here I congratulate you on the debate, you have entered into this debate and one new fact, which is that volunteering, solidarity, love for man, by helping is not a privilege of some groups. However, it is also important to stress the role of religious organizations in volunteering, the role that a Catholic church plays in volunteering. They presided over helping, volunteering for the poorest, the poorest, the sickest for various diseases, and everyone in need was comfort, help, him, and spiritual help in those most difficult and last moments of life. One of the biggest and most famous volunteers is Mother Teresa and here you are, Mother Teresa and you reminded me of her in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56225	Here's a thank-you MP, surely Mother Teresa is one symbol of humanity all over the world and gives us a special pain and strength as a community, as a human. We have through our country several and firefighters, defenders, cheerleading groups, various civil organizations that give pain to our society and young people who are here above to give us what we have one security and that we believe that this nobility can never die.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56226	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56227	Dear Mr. Sanader, colleague Deur, you should mention what you said is true and of course we agree and there are many hours of volunteering regarding church structures. However, Croatian defenders should also be mentioned. They've been volunteering for many years in such a way as to provide all of themselves, to really try to give everything they know, to the local community. We often don't recognize it, so perhaps this is the moment and your connection with Croatian defenders, surely your experience speaks in this regard. In the end, Banovina has shown that many organizations of defenders from all over our beautiful country have been coming and helping and eventually some are still there and helping. Well, I think they should be pointed out as part of this Voluntary Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56228	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56229	Here's a thank you to the well-respected representative Bujević, surely you're right, these are defenders of people who in the 1990s were young people who then passed on this nobleness to their homeland as we are talking about young people in this time. They are always there because this nobleness and love of man she does not grow old, she is present throughout the lifetime of one man, and the people who were in the Homeland War and their value she is permanent, she is present for her people, for her country and she has nothing, she is free. And this is what has been noticed and what gives us strength for our country that this is worth living for, and for which many Croatian defenders have given their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56230	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56231	Dear Representative, I cannot commend you for your speech as Mrs. Nada Murganic did, I believe that this was an example of a galamitias of a vague, incomprehensible speech full of unconnected and incomprehensible thesis. However, if I understood you correctly, you pointed out the role of young people in church associations that young people have no prejudice. Do you want to say that young people who express their activists through some civil society associations have prejudice to those who have religious beliefs or who want to offend all of us parliamentary representatives, and so do those who volunteer to do some sort of, well, craziness that we are full of prejudice towards people who have certain religious content. Is this your thesis and what does this have to do with the Voluntary Law we're discussing today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56232	Now we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative, Mr. Deur, Mr. Deur, Mr. Deur [[Intruder: Thank you, honourable MPs.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56233	You always inspire me and I'm glad to hear you and your comments are wonderful. I certainly didn't think so, I also mentioned the civil community of Croatian society, but I gave priority to the strength and size of church communities that have been since the Homeland War, even before, as you heard and a colleague said, from Mother Teresa in the Church, it's the teaching of faith, aiding, nobility. Young people receive God's love and give it away for free, that doesn't mean that young people who are in other civil organizations don't have that system, don't put it on me, that's something I didn't say, I believe you didn't mean it. This law certainly, to list people who set an example for us by example, I trust both me and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56234	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56235	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Rules of Procedure 238, MP Oreskovic, has been injured by an insult to MPs. My question, in fact, through this breach of the Rules of Procedure, who is a representative of Dalia Oreskovic that she can assess whether a debate is good or not and criticise a fellow MP that his debate is a set of unreasonable certain words just because he does not like it, and about its discussions, as much as we like, we have been decent enough so we have not replicated in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56236	Okay, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was more your replica, you have a warning. The next replica is the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56237	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear colleague Deur, true love, that's what you emphasized, it's certainly... all the benefits, all the people who do volunteer work, all the people who need to help others, who need to help those who are weaker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These weaker ones can be weaker because they live in poverty, they can be weaker because they are exposed to violence, they can be weaker because they are suppressed, they can be weaker because they are not free, they are not free in their beliefs. We all believe in something, and all of us are encouraged by this belief that we act well and surely, if we talk like this we will agree that every charity should be valued, every work that lies on the common good, on helping others, and when people help people because they don't have poverty, we will appreciate it. When Caritas helps those who don't, we'll appreciate it, when autonomous houses help women who are exposed to violence, we'll appreciate it, we'll appreciate the true values that we have in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56238	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56239	Your Honor, I think we agree on everything. I respect, however, it is value, help, nobility, love, the strength we give for man and I for you and all together, for each other in society, that is that nobleness. We must not bring either religion or nation or anything else. I just wanted to list what I personally, encouraged me about this law. I also believe what you said, we all have something together that encourages us. These young people, here, I invite you to Jarun with our Salesians, beautiful young people, all together, here I am, as some host, if you were to see a youth that God's love receives and gives it free of charge. I think it would be good for some of our colleagues because they lack God's love. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56240	We have the last line, Ursha Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56241	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the chairman, may... Yeah, yeah, sorry, so I think we'll agree that every contribution to the positive goals of volunteering should be recognized and supported and commended, and that we should not introduce differences or some emphasis, so here I will react to point out that young people within church organizations have no prejudice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So is it just the idea of volunteering just that, that there's no prejudice and that it helps people no matter what group they belong to? I think it's really the cornerstone of volunteering. And I agree that young people should be encouraged to volunteer as much as possible, in this respect you really lack amongst other things and civil education which, I fear, we will not receive by God's grace, but still by our efforts in this House to introduce civic education into compulsory school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56242	Well, thank you very much, distinguished MPs. Maybe we didn't understand each other, here, I didn't, maybe we don't understand each other. So young people who are within church associations, I didn't say that they are, that they are, but that's exactly volunteering, volunteering and that nobility, and I'm just listing some organizations, associations that I know, which encourages me, which gives me as a man a vision, a view. I agree, I said about civic education that I was encouraged by a community in Jarun where young people set an example and an educational system where one can see how one youth is organised from which love, strength comes out and that much is known, taught and sure, but that one future of our education must give us, surely in the future, we will have the opportunity to see, but all communities together in society must be those who participate in our education, not just some, but all together. No prejudice whatsoever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56243	The individual debate followed by respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56244	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state, advisors of the minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, I also wanted to maybe make a small contribution to the debate on this Act, a law which certainly appears from this debate, has come across general support and he has made one contribution to organising and promoting general volunteering, will organise better volunteer centres, will be kept records, there has been a change and in the composition of the National Committee and I think that in any case it is one step forward. Of course, I wish that suggestions had been respected in some way, but as an explanation that in this Law, it is not possible that volunteering can be valued in some way through different ways, but certainly through some points at enrolment, as we have, for example, in some sports competitions or some other merits of young people, but I believe that Minister Fuchs is really open enough to many changes and that science will respect it during some changes. What I would like to say is that certainly, young people need to volunteer, that it is one of the strongest and educational and educational instruments that is obtained outside the educational system that is obtained outside the family, but certainly that the education system and family have a significant impact there, without their support it is impossible to organise. Of course, we all know that helping, volunteering makes us all more expensive to better people, and that certainly, with a young man, can identify him, entrenched, but also define us for a number of future activities, including a choice of professions. What I was saying in the replica, it is certainly the emphasis of intergenerational solidarity, volunteering significantly for young people, as well as sports, volunteers through their groups and groups are socializing and thus certainly have more quality facilities and leisure time. It's important that intergenerational solidarity, exchange of experiences, young people can help in procurement, in playing social games with the elderly, can also give older persons instructions or some, let's say the banal things that seem to us, telling stories, events from... The lives of older people and a lot of things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would like to say and stress that the institutions should also encourage them to enable volunteers and content and space, to design work for them, to eventually and in debt to the persons who will work with them, who will do educations, but also in some way control, clearly, that any form of abuse can happen to them, and we need to take great care of them because of the young people who are vulnerable, but also because of the elderly, somehow these two groups, the age groups are the most prominent ones. What I would like to say is that they should be rewarded, we talked about these points, but they should be rewarded to allow them education, meetings, travels that are rewards, but are also one form of gaining new knowledge, new opportunities, exchange of experiences with those environments, states, cities where volunteering applies. What I would like, I would like this Law and this debate not to go into ideological debate because we are aware that each hand is a help, every open and good heart is very welcome, that volunteering is neither an obligation nor a privilege of some but all of us regardless of worldly, religious and political and other preferences, i.e. commitment, so here and in this sense I would like to conclude this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56245	We've got plenty of replicas. The first is a respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56246	Thank you very much, dear fellow Members, I refer to what you have said about promoting volunteering, on the one hand we should encourage volunteers to join in volunteering, there are certainly roles and associations that must be promoted and encouraged by volunteers, media, units of local self-government, ministries, etc. And secondly, what you mentioned, which I completely agree with, is the incentive of institutions to accept volunteers, to enable them to work, and I would have complemented what I didn't have to say in the previous replica of my colleague, so those who work in institutions must in some way recognize the jobs volunteers can do, so that they don't give up too soon because of this article. 11. Of course, there are a number of jobs that can be done by staff in institutions, and you as a former minister are aware that there are both workers missing and in the welfare system, health care, etc., but do not give up on those jobs that volunteers can do. Help in health care facilities, helping families, waiting rooms, now we've had examples, here's the thing. division of masks, etc. [[Intruder: Time.]] So you need to educate employees in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56247	Well, I have experience and as an institution director and I worked at the Red Cross, really here, I can say that I have this, in that long-term internship of a lot of different experiences. I agree, and that is why I have stressed that it is also necessary to stimulate institutions, institutions to accept volunteers, clearly that in the beginning it may be for them, let's say, under quotes, additional work because it needs to be organised, designed, in some way and inside already employed, to do further work reorganization now, however, in addition to this physical support, i.e. help, volunteers are really bringing in something that is positive, one freshness and one novelty in institutions and institutions, and that certainly needs to be encouraged, and that is why I have also directed little of this debate taught by some experiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56248	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56249	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Murganic, you have a long experience. So you have experience on the subject of volunteering. We have this topic, and now in the debate, you see that we're all talking about it aphimously and we're talking about that in some of the following, I'd say we need to make things better. You also mentioned in your discussion what we all mentioned that young people who opt for volunteering should do as well as athletes as someone who has yet to go to another school music or I don't know ballet are these extra points because that way one of the elements of encouragement. I am deeply hoping that you will somehow influence the minister who is in charge of taking care of it so that it may be some kind of joint, joint incentive for the Minister of Science and Education regardless of what side of this assembly we are sitting on to see it in this law through the next amendment to the law because it would actually be One good story. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56250	Here, thank you MPs, we have also talked about this on our Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and this is one of the conclusions and recommendations of this committee, and it will certainly be potential in this debate. I'll repeat it in some way here. It seems to me that Minister Fuchs is really open to some new challenges. It's been shown to me by an excellent minister now and in this Covid crisis, we've put a lot of emphasis on this one. So he believes in the system of education and education, and he will certainly make a contribution, and we will all work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56251	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56252	Thank you. Our colleagues Murganić mentioned today both the Red Cross and the Fire Department, church institutions, defenders, many other institutions that provide volunteer hours, but I still have to say that there is a Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. These are our true volunteers as well as a series of others we mentioned earlier. These are people who invest their hours in education, and also help selflessly all over the country, so whatever it takes, so just so we don't stay incorrect to them, here I am asking you then and your comment on the HGSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56253	Well, HGSS, I think I'm free to give some of my grades in the world. I think even tourists who often stay here and get into some adventures or some accidents happen are all together and they rely most on exactly those guys from the HGSS who do miracles and who have saved many lives. And certainly we should give them thanks, support, is they are volunteers but for their volunteer work they certainly need good equipment, they exhibit their lives with a lot of things. We should certainly have our own subport in every sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56254	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56255	Dear Vice President, you've been part of the Red Cross as a director and a minister, and you've spent a lot of time with the powerless people who need help. And I'm sure it's volunteering, volunteering, something special, that we all agree here together. And this law is a good, excellent step right in showing that already the system recognizes very quality of volunteering in our society and how important it is for young people and for what you've been doing through your working life, how much visibility you've seen, how much it takes to be really something to build on even better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56256	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56257	It is clear that all those events, all of which have guided us, have taught us in our youth, have dedicated us for life. Here is the choice of profession, of course, that is quite significant and important, and it is not quite an accident why someone has opted for such humanitarian professions as we in some way call calls where there are very many emotions and where these very emotions are one positive energy. I will say both the heart and the warmth of this very important and necessary. And sometimes I seem to be, I think it's really hard to find that energy. You're mentioning my work in welfare institutions. Believe me, because of my experience, I greatly appreciated those volunteers who were ready to die to hold their hands, starve them by face and be present at their moments. Oh, that's very hard and thank you to those volunteers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56258	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56259	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Murganić today lives in a post-modern time where he often likes to say that everything has a price and that nothing has value. Volunteering just kind of disproves it because it comes from an altruism, from this one life force and urge that you really want to do something for the greater good. That's why I'd like to hear your thinking because there were some discussions going that way that volunteering should be otherwise evaluated and that volunteering should be given priority in some activities when entering universities and the like. Then wouldn't that actually question the very purpose of volunteering? You when you come somewhere as a person who wants to get a job and in your CV if it says that you volunteered for sure for your employers will have a certain value. But if volunteering turns out to encourage you to volunteer because you will acquire some benefit or a better position then it kills the spirit of volunteering. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56260	So I kind of have a feeling that I should reward volunteering, if some girl has been volunteering at the rehabilitation centre for years, so with people with severe disabilities if in the institutions that I've mentioned now it's still in some way recommended to me that, that they have the ability to enroll, or for those occupations, which can't be seen only through grades or through the success of the school that we value with descriptive or as I said with the rating number. It's a confirmation that they really can and will do it because on such jobs other than knowledge, there's got to be more to it, and it's really love, patience, and something inside of you that you're carrying to help people. I think, in some situations, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56261	The next replica of respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56262	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Murganic, we all know that the big sports competitions and the smaller, numerous events without volunteers would not be possible. In our schools, since we were young, and even in kindergartens, children are encouraged to donate to them the need to help others, and I think that we are on a good path, we proved it in the Homeland War and in the migrant crisis, so here is when there was an earthquake in Banovina, which is still very fresh for all of us. So I don't really see, and I agree with you, this is a debate that really doesn't need to be led into ideological waters, and I also don't see what some new object should be introduced, some kind of civic education that would be involved among other things when we see volunteering. in Croatia at a high level. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56263	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56264	Yes, we have numerous examples of how this selfless donation is being nurtured, selflessly helping, and even in kindergartens, the smallest ones have now been collecting and bringing and giving, and this is unfortunately the freshest example in us, the earthquake in Banovina where indeed the little ones by giving toys and sweets and there they can say were quite present and it must have moved us all, and it is something that really gives us hope that, regardless of what we may be living in a consumer society where we are viewed through material evaluation that we have been, but also other nations that are humanitarian and who are willing to help each other. And we really show it when it's the hardest. When it's not hard, then we can be a little apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56265	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56266	Thank you. First of all, I must say that I am extremely pleased that my colleague Grba Bujević mentioned HGSS as one group of volunteers who not only give love and greater love but are a group of people who have shown not only a high dose of personal denial, which every volunteering necessarily implies but also taking a high degree of risk at helping and saving others. And that's what I'm saying from the moment Mrs. Murganic said in her speech that we should keep this debate from ideological bickering. I don't think there's been any kind of crackdown on that, in any case, that's what I'm saying, not being encouraged by the opposition deputies. We have all day long referred to the conditions of volunteer work as a whole not to what volunteers it is. The problem arose the moment religious associations, religious communities, Salesians, defenders were re-absorbed. It seemed that some associations were worth more than others. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56267	Dear representative Murganic, thank you very much. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56268	The fact that you are a colleague and a part of us in our debate has pointed out that indeed religious associations, religious organizations and Catholic churches probably also other churches or organizations also have a huge contribution to volunteering, solidarity, aiding, and the whole world recognizes this, so in Croatia it is quite present. So Caritas runs the autonomous houses of victims of violence, takes care of underage and abandoned children and is everywhere present. And the problem with me is that you saw that that's how we started the ideological debate. No, we just gave some meaning to those who make a big contribution to volunteering. It's a fact that you can't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56269	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56270	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, respected colleagues, and I would like to refer to this, say that there is no ideology only on the one hand, are ultimately also part of civil society, can apply to all the competitions that exist in this country, but as Babe also has valuable projects such as that of protecting women's rights so has Caritas and many others. And they should also make a significant contribution to everyone as a civil society. But what I wanted to ask you is this. You said you needed the same awareness of the institutions about the importance of volunteering, but nothing would have happened without funds. Great resources are available to us in the future because you as a minister have contributed to the development of many such programs and I congratulate you. How important it is to secure clear funds won't go for fees, but here's for the HGSS anyway needs equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56271	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56272	Thank you colleagues, here as Minister, and otherwise everyone who deals in some way with social and humanitarian and political work knows that in Croatia from all levels from local to state level there are significant resources available to different associations, organisations and individuals who are in any way involved in social and humanitarian work. In some cases, they also go beyond their ability to compensate for the lack in institutions and institutions, i.e. from the state level institutionally solved, or they are in some way I say support. And that when tenders were made, when contracts were concluded, we weren't and none of us sees from which are ideological or political or world-wide spectrum of that association, it's important that they have a good programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56273	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56274	My fellow MPs and MPs, here's the first thing I'm going to do is refer to this little debate through the replicas. So in short, if someone should describe in a few words what is the basic problem of the Republic of Croatia, then they would say that it is an interpretation of equality. There are the same, but in practice, especially in the application of rights, some are always more equal than others. So even during today's debate on volunteers, when the complete opposition was actually talking about the framework, the conditions, the improvement of volunteer status through the debate and the dialogue of the ruling ones, some of them are slightly more respected than others in respecting their role and contributions. My reaction was aimed at equating it, so that anyone who sacrificed their time, their effort, their work, and I say some of them are exposed and at personal risk doesn't feel alone as we discuss them less valuable. And as far as the law itself is concerned, here, first of all, I really want to give my confession to all the volunteers, both the church associations and the civilian ones. Indeed, volunteers are the first to show a good heart in extreme situations. The first respond in time by showing the ability of an organisation to be incomparably greater than those who have competent national authorities and institutions to do so. And the fact that volunteers and volunteer organizations have actually shown that our institutions have been sub-cated, not only to react at the moment of the crisis, but they've been sub-disciplined to counter the need to be in the field if the crisis occurs. And it's tragic that we, from experience and work and contributions from volunteer organizations, have learned nothing that we should actually change in the system. And I am also sorry that from the experience of the work of the associations we have failed to recognize what is the biggest problem through this law itself and how to solve it more correctly. The most important among them is how to allocate financial resources for the work of associations, whether it is EU projects or national projects. Here's a colleague from the IDS who's still worth the fastest finger system as a non-trivial and irregular method, which is actually a splash of what volunteers through their work want to achieve and achieve. However, in any case, this law is a small improvement and I think there is a consensus in the assembly that this law will be adopted and accepted by making it clear in advance that we will have to see through practice what needs to be changed and improved. So here's clean as one, one small advance day of quality or a boost to further reflection I'm going to point to two things. The first is the fact that we through this law are de facto giving some importance and recognition to volunteer centres. Practice has shown I currently had if my data is good 4 regional centers and 28 local ones. And this is not the law where we actually see that in real life, in practice on the ground, what we as a Croatian Parliament refuse to implement in practice is happening. And that is that logic and that nature of things, the nature of the organization on which the topic is to be referred that Croatia should function as a smaller number of regions whether it is 4, whether 5, 6 we can leave it for discussion, but in any case the organisation of Croatia as a region and a certain number of local units in any case is less than 555. And in any case, it remains like something that's at a small door like this, right now through the Volunteers Act, before that we had a law that defined how we're going to interrogate tourist guides, more and more points to a necessary need that we won't be able to run away from for long. And the second topic I'm just opening up for discussion is whether we need all those intermediaries between volunteers and government authorities. As an unnecessary mediator, I'm assessing the National Committee for Volunteering Development. I think we can fit his powers and responsibilities into the resolution ministry or otherwise to avoid unnecessary duplication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56275	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56276	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, it is necessary to give recognition to all volunteers. It's a fact they donate what we have the least, we're not aware of when we're young but this year they go so they donate their time, their work, their effort. And the fact is that various institutions work to promote volunteering and here on Banovina are almost every weekend from.../incomprehensible... led by Pater Ike Mandurić among other things and should give them recognitions. If anyone thought of them in the debate, I don't see anything controversial about it. What I find controversial is the control of the work of volunteer centres. If you go to the website of the Voluntary Centre Osijek you will see that they are dealing with things that have nothing to do with volunteering, but with political and political engagement of people and that is what I think is controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56277	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56278	I understand what you want to point to. I'm saying, it's not a question of giving a confession, but the problem is if we send a message that someone's valorized and appreciated more than anyone else. I think that if we already mention civil society in Banja, then we can also mention the role of chefs who used to cook there day and night more or less about their own expenses. But as for the control of volunteer centres, I don't mind her being better and better, but let me say something that many people won't actually like. Let's just say that for me, the control of volunteer centres would be a secondary, and my primary would be the control of politics and politicians who still exist in Croatia not even close at any satisfactory level. When we establish control of government and politics in a way that would really represent anti-corruption policy, then we can go after volunteers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56279	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56280	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I only wanted to correct the EU's fastest finger fund tender. So that's not the fastest finger, and let me explain. The fastest finger is when you sign up and the first independent of quality gets. These are open invitations to tender where, in order of application, a very high standard of quality is assessed where half of the projects are waste and then the competition is reopened so that everyone can apply. So, the funds are enough, and this model applies because we are at the end of the contractual period and if we go to a closed tender where all are received and all assessments and only this one will be used. So this is the only way to use the funds, but the quality standards are set to 75-80 points and this isn't the fastest finger again. The fastest finger would be whoever gets first, that's not true. You have very high quality levels and often tenders are not used but have to be reopened to make use of these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56281	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56282	You're partly a colleague of mine right. Neither the time of my replica, nor the time of my presentation, is such as to explain all the problems arising from the financial allocation system, and in short this could be translated “not neck but neck. ” The fact is that the funds don't always get the best quality and most needed projects, but those that are in the order of applications came before in the position that they as such are assessed. So don't tell me that just because it threatens to use no financial resources, we're not able to come up with a better quality and fairer model of the reporting and evaluation system. So somehow it seems to me that we always find an excuse that the existing rather bad and unfair practice remains the same and the way it is. There was plenty of time to adjust the procedure to get everyone a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56283	Thank you very much. The replica will now be held by a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56284	Dear MPs, here's a part you've explained to me now that you've spoken to Mr. Pavic Mark because my question went the same way about the funding of volunteer organizations. In fact, it was not clear to me whether it was a problem, do you think that the problem is that money is obtained through a competition or is the problem with how these competitions are conducted? That was the question. So, if I understand correctly, you think the problem is how competitions are conducted and the criteria on which someone actually gets that money. And I agree, just so we can give different money? That's the question. Is through a program of work of individual centers, I don't know if it's feasible and if we can do it at all? Can you define that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56285	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56286	Any situation in which financial resources are allocated, whether national or EU funds, I have always wanted to see clearly defined tenders. The clearly defined invitations to tender shall include both the procedure and the evaluation process. So the problem is how we conduct these competitions and implement them in practice. As Mr Pavić has managed to present, so there is a combination of the order of applications submitted and of the one that is valued within those whose applications have arrived among the first, and on the basis of certain criteria certain projects are approved. However, the system of evaluation and credits is not such that it always affects the best quality and best project. How can you do that? In a whole series of ways, and that's why I pointed out that as one of the bodies I consider superfluous is this National Committee, and few of those bodies that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56287	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the final presentations, and on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, the Honorable representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56288	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the esteemed secretary of state, for returning to the bill of amendments to the law, co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this debate, we all talked together about the values of volunteering, about the welfare of our entire community, and then at one point, it started with highlights. I think it would be good and necessary to return simply to the conclusion that every kind of volunteering, means every kind of assistance to the community from any side has come that contributes to the positive goals of welcome and that it needs to be valued. She'd use this closing word to sort things out a little bit. 22 from these amendments. So, I'm talking again, let me, therefore, about the ratio of strength to say so on the committee, to the National Voluntary Development Committee, I'm going to quote a proposal. So the board has 21 members, and each member has a deputy, which we think is good that there is a deputy so that the board can always function. But we're going to count who makes this committee. So it makes a representative of the competent authority, we have these various bodies, offices and associations of the state administration of 10 representatives and we have 8 representatives of volunteers or civil society organisations dealing with the development of volunteering and we have 3 independent experts involved in volunteering and civil society on the proposal of units of local and regional regional self-government, meaning again and again on the proposal of public administration. And therefore, the figures are quite clear, 8 representatives of civil society organisations, but we still have to agree with 13 representatives of public, public administration. We believe that since the work of the National Committee is directly related to all the organisations of the civil society of volunteers and their work that still better is the provision in which the ratio of power is a little more equidistant, where there are 6 experts, 3 has been chosen by the civil society organisation, and 3 is local self-government, 3 are now 3 of those who choose, civil society organisations have simply been abolished. Therefore, this ratio of 8:13 in favour of the public administration is not simply considered to be good for the further functioning of this committee because so far the composition has shown itself so far in practice as a good model and so we would support the simple erasure of this article. And finally, I would certainly support it and, of course, we always stand for it in our club, which is the introduction of civic education as an incentive to volunteer and volunteer work because I've been raising young people at all levels, from the earliest age, in this direction we'll get a more solid and better community in the country. So, the Green-Left bloc club will submit its amendments, give support to these amendments, and we hope that new changes from, to the echoes from, from the concrete work will be also soon on the agenda of this assembly and I am taking the opportunity never to thank all volunteers and volunteers once again for their selfless contribution to a better society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56289	The next Club of Representatives, will finally speak, will be the HDZ and will finally speak to the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. For the past three hours, we've talked about amendments to the Voluntary Law. I must admit I'm not disappointed with the debate, I'm glad we heard some things that we can further improve in some other amendments and additions to the law. What is most important of this is that these amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law will make it easier for these volunteers that we have talked about today and the whole volunteering system so that they can actually get the opportunity to help the community with their love and their desire to help them truly be recognized and evaluated. And only together and teamly, as usually volunteers do, can be helped in the community and it should be appreciated, and all that we have heard today through the amendments and proposals that it has, I'm sure the Ministry and the Honorable Secretary of State ofpleikosa will consider, look and see if any of that is for, for, indeed, the benefit of volunteers that such a thing will then be accepted and accepted. Not to mention, at 3 o'clock we've all said, the HDZ Club will support this law, amend and supplement the law for that reason because it's certainly an improvement compared to the existing one, and some steps are taken which way should actually go. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56291	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. As it's been three hours we're going to take a short break of 10 minutes, see you at 12 and 40 at the next point. MEETING IN 12,31 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:43 A.M.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Mario Shiljeg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56315	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. So here is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act in a second reading. As you know, this House of the High is held at the 7th session of May 2021. It concluded that the draft Law amending the Water Act, any objections, proposals and opinions submitted in the debate were addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate. In accordance with that conclusion, the final draft law was drawn up by the Government to the HS on 1 July 2021. to bring in the second reading. The differences between the solutions proposed in the final proposal of the Law amending the Water Act in relation to the solutions set out in the first reading bill are as follows, firstly, the provision of Article 1(1) is further adapted. 11th century 2. The Act on Waters relating to the exemption from the mandatory implementation of the procedure of an appropriate environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the acceptability for the ecological network for the extraction of gravel and sand from renewable beds. In the final proposal for a law, this exception refers to the application of specific environmental and natural protection rules, and not all cases such as those in the draft law are listed in an individual case in response to state of emergency. This provision is in line with the representatives of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Environment, as confirmed in the conclusion of a joint meeting on environmental matters with representatives of the European Commission on 16 June 2021. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. It is noted that such a solution fulfils the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to a letter of formal notice of the European Commission of 11 October 2019. and remove the consequences of the possible initiation of a court case for infringement of EU law. The second amendment concerns the additional regulation of the provisions of the Water Institute, so that it is now prescribed that the statutes, the financial plan and the labour rules are adopted by the Administrative Council of the Institute, with the prior consent of the Ministry, and not as previously agreed by the Ministry, which is in accordance with the agreed observations of the HS Legislative Committee. And in the third amendment, we have an additional regulation of the provisions relating to ensuring the rights of all landowners to compensate for the market value of real estate that, under the power of the Water Act, have become a public water well. It is now prescribed that the same is ensured provided that it is not a misrepresentation of ownership rights, and the same is accepted in accordance with the DORH’s observations. The provisions relating to the harmonisation of the basic text of the law with the Law on the System of State Administration and the correction of incorrect reference remain the same. The final draft of the law is discussed by the working bodies of the HS Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, and thanks, by this means, also to the constructive discussion of the respected representatives and representatives of the members of those committees. I recall that this amendment to the Water Act was necessary primarily in order to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in response to a letter of notification from the European Commission from 11 October 2019. under which the European Commission has assessed that the Republic of Croatia has not properly transposed certain provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Water Framework Directive. In particular, the European Commission has assessed the provisions of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11th century 2. Water law in the part in which an exemption is prescribed from the implementation of an appropriate environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the acceptability for the ecological network according to specific regulations, which refers to cases of riverbed cleaning, in order to increase the capacity for the absorption of coastal waters in the further sequence of flood prevention and maintenance of their waterway. The proposal for a Law amending the Water Act in the first reading deletes that part of the provision. In further communication with the European Commission and in accordance with the conclusions of the United Meeting mentioned with the representatives of the European Commission's Environment Management Board of June 2021. This final proposal for a law is further adapted to the provision of an article. 11th century 2. The Water Act is now referred to as an exception to the application of specific environmental and nature protection rules in individual cases in response to the state of emergency laid down by those regulations and applying the rules of conduct laid down in those specific rules. In this way, compliance with those EU directives is ensured and the possible consequences for the initiation of a court case for breach of EU law are also eliminated. Furthermore, this final proposal for a law further regulates provisions on the Water Institute, whose establishment is foreseen for the Water Management Strategy since 2008, and the possibility of its establishment is also provided for by the Water Act in continuity of the last ten years, which was discussed in the HS when the Water Act was adopted in June 2019. As is known to monitor surface and underground waters is the basis for qualitative and quantitative management of water resources and is now carried out by Croatian Waters Act. Partly through authorized laboratories, and partly through the main water-economic laboratory of Croatian Waters. The monitoring results also form a database for the implementation of the water management plan of the main plan document according to the EU Water Framework Directive and serve among other things to report to the European Commission on the state of water in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the achievement of the Water Framework Directive objective, and this is a good state of all water. The European Commission, in accordance with the guidelines of the European Green Plan on Water relevant to those plans, would achieve a good water condition in the next six-year planning cycle, with the reduction of existing pressure on water resources and the excessive use of water resources, is referring precisely to the shortcomings in the current water monitoring implementation. All the above is the reason for the separation of this important segment from the otherwise large-scale business subject of Croatian Waters and its implementation within the Water Institute. The proposed amendments to the Water Act will adequately adapt to its mixed subject-matter, professionally operational and scientific as a public institution in accordance with the Law on Institutions. Namely, the Institute of Water cannot acquire the legal position of a scientific organisation at this time of its establishment because it does not meet or fulfil the conditions for health organisations listed in the list of scientific activities. In view of the above, the Institute of Water will establish a permit to carry out scientific activities and obtain the legal position of a scientific organisation in accordance with the rules on scientific activity within the time limit of the prescribed Regulation establishing the Institute of Water or the Statute of the Institute of Water. This final draft law will also extend the round of general acts, which, with the previous consent of the ministry as founder of the institute, adopts the administrative council of the institute and, with the statutes as such, determines both the financial plan and the labour rules in accordance with the general rules on work in order to maintain the direct control of the ministry of matters of importance for the operation of the institute. Furthermore, this final proposal will ensure that all land-booked owners are entitled to the compensation of the market value of the property which, under the power of the Water Act, have become a public water well provided that it is not a matter of misrepresentation of ownership rights. In practice, there are cases where the wrong registration of the public water supply occurs and with the aim of ensuring legal certainty, a distinction is made provided that it is not a misrepresentation of the right of ownership. In this way, it shall be left to the private owner for market value compensation in accordance with the general rules of property law and Article 50(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to restrict or confiscate ownership. This also circled the legal framework for public water good management of the '95 Waters Act as a real solution for cases where all land under surface and other waters along water streams, lakes, accumulations and retentions is legally defined as a water good or legal whole with the appropriate legal regime. For the purpose of Article 236 of the Treaty on The Water Act was fully applicable to the final proposal of the law and it was necessary to correct the wrong call in the same law and the correct reference to Article 231(1) and Article 232(4), respectively, was amended in order to clarify the whole paragraph 1. In addition, the final proposal for a law corrects the wrong call in Article 141 paragraph 2. Water law. Taking into account all of the above as well as the fact that this is an extremely important law on Croatian legislation, we expect a constructive debate on this final draft of the law and its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56316	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you said that we are in line with EU directives to amend the law. Of course, other than the legislative framework, the financial resources provided in the European budget are also important. Yesterday, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, handed over the approved National Recovery and Resistance Plan worth 47.5 billion kuna to the President of the Croatian Government. Under this plan, water supply projects worth 5.25 billion kuna have been approved, and I wonder if you can tell us more details about the projects and how they will contribute in fact to the strong establishment of a water supply and disposal system in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56318	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56319	Let me give you my word. Here you go, dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56320	I apologize, thank you well-respected MPs, so here we are pleased to conclude that our plan for NPO reform of resistance and recovery has been adopted. You pointed out well that nearly 5.3 billion kuna is intended for projects in the water economy. Most of this money will go towards the completion, continuation and completion of the major infrastructure projects that we already have now already under way from the current financial perspective in realisation. agglomerations. You know I had 60 contracts. The whole of Croatia has become or will soon become a major construction site that will definitely bring us closer to and even exceed the standards of developed Europe in some areas. First of all, in terms of joining the public water supply system, it means that about 6% of the population has room to, to allow them to join the public water supply system. However, what we have paid more attention to in the current financial perspective is the disposal that is now at about 56%. We expect definitely this high progress. In addition to this part, it means agglomeration, meaning harmonising with the Water Directives for human consumption and wastewater treatment The Insect Reiner: Thank you./... the importance of the resources will go to climate change or flood defenses. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56321	The next is a replica of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State. I would not agree with you today on the amendments and additions to this law, given that I consider that the official notice received by the Republic of Croatia due to changes to the law is not well explained or is responsible to the European Commission or to the main Commission on the environment, which is, in fact, the Republic of Croatia by amending the law of 2019. He wants to. In the EU Directives of 2000/60, The 32nd clearly states that exemptions are possible from requirements to prevent further deterioration or to achieve a good water condition under special conditions if the failure is due to unpredictable or exceptional circumstances, in particular floods and droughts or for reasons of prevailing social interest. I don't know what you were defending, how you defended and how you represented the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I think there's a dominant social interest here, and so is [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The water condition is catastrophic. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56323	Thank you very much. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56324	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic, thank you for your question. So, as I have already cited intensive communication with the European Commission has preceded this final proposal, what I am pleased to conclude, and thanks to your interventions and interventions of local self-government units, we have managed to regulate the issue of extraction of gravel and sand in such a way that there are appropriate exceptions to the process of carrying out environmental impact assessment and NATURA 2000, respectively, environmental network in a way that defines, as exceptions, everything that is defined in art. 8. The Act on the Protection of Nature means an extraordinary situation where, apart from the dangers of floods, all those extraordinary situations that are defined in the work of civil protection, I think we have reached an appropriate compromise that we can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56325	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56326	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. counterpart Petir made it very clear that out of 47.5 billion kunas that arrived in Zagreb yesterday over 6 billion for water management and waste, most of them go for water. From the Multi-annual Financial Framework of the Eu Funds, the largest investment precisely for water, so I'm not surprised that on the basis of such large investments, we don't have one quality institute that has all components in one place. Since the first reading I've been asking questions there have been some criticisms and on the side of the opposition that it will be doubles, processes, research, absolutely won't and I'm giving you support and I think it's very important that such an institute be established. We know how long it takes to build doctors of science or to build doctors of science of hydrology, and I personally listened to the professor. Jugaja, but such an institute is needed, necessary, there will be no overlap here and DHMZ also has a project “Vepar” on which.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56327	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56328	Thank you, Your Honor, for your commendation of this idea, as I have said the current financial perspective, the National Resilience and Recovery Programme, the next financial perspective will lead to full harmonisation as regards financial expenditure with the standards defined in the water-related directives. And in order to maintain such a situation in the future and we can continue to boast that the Republic of Croatia is the richest in terms of quality drinking water lying on the head of the population, it is necessary to have very high quality monitoring and we now believe that the Institute of Water that will unite all monitoring operations as well as all monitoring components will adequately respond to the challenges of keeping our water resources in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56329	And a replica of the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56330	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here's the clue to this, I think it's extremely important that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia first of all realize that the Institute of Water is exactly what we all want, and that is, above all, the preservation of our water resources, the preservation of our water resources. We see not only in Europe but in the whole world that exactly water is strategically important for the future, that most likely and great battles will be fought around water-rich management and certainly that the establishment of the Water Institute that will bear the name Josip Juraj Strossmayer and that will conduct monitoring not only of surface and underground but also of coastal waters, but also of doing professional bases and for all that is crucial not only in water management but also in flood management plan and risks, water construction, etc. will contribute to saving what we have for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56331	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56332	Thank you very much. I have nothing to add but to fully agree with you and thank you for reading in detail the work of a future institution that will all together I am sure of pride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56333	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. The Committee on Agriculture discussed the amendments to the Water Act at its meeting as a home working body. In relation to the exemption from the obligation to carry out an appropriate environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the acceptability for the ecological network for the implementation of procedures, the exploitation of gravel and sands by extracting from renewable waterways and other surface water bodies is expressed as shared opinions. It is part of the Committee's opinion that the proposed amendments allow the exploitation of gravel and sand, and these amendments are clearly prescribed procedures for their implementation. Part of the board warned that river traffic is not possible because of the accumulations that prevents the development of river transport. The additional threat also creates the fact that such saturated rivers that are not being maintained are not able to absorb the rainwater which creates pressure on the surrounding agricultural land, but also costs for JLS. Such practices are highlighted in the debate in the exact opposite of the practices applied in other Member States that have regulated their rivers and ensured the waterways of the river. It is also expressed that the Republic of Croatia has suffered significant financial losses due to imports of sand and gravel as a result of this restriction from the economic point of view. The proposer's representative answered the question that the exploitation of gravel and sand from Croatian rivers is not prohibited, and these amendments of the law will more clearly regulate the ways of exploitation. The proposed amendments are liberal and consistent with the European Commission, and each other would require amendments to 4 basic acts in the field of environmental and nature protection. Looking back on the experiences of neighbouring countries, he stressed that the process of their accession to the Union would certainly lead to adjustments. He recalled that for the maintenance of waterways, several-year programmes have been brought in which 2,27 million cc's of waterway applications have been removed from the river, of which 1.24 million cc's of gravel and sand. The procedures for obtaining the necessary evaluations and acceptance assessments shall not last longer than 4 months. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture decided to propose to the majority the HS the adoption of the Law amending the Water Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56335	Thank you very much. Now the chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the respected representative Sandra Bencic, will speak on behalf of the board, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56336	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. Therefore, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection discussed at the 19th session held yesterday this Final Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act as a property, so we are not in the capacity of the parent body but of the interested body. I would like to point out that one part of the debate is, in fact, the same and the comment would be that the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment should be the parent body for the question of the Water Law or the question of water at all. We were also discussing the same thing about art. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the application of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council’s contribution to the European Parliament and Council and the Council with regard to the European Parliament and the Council and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and the Council, and the Council, on the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, on the European Research So, between the first and second readings, there was a change, so what was pointed out and was accepted as one of the actual observations. The applicability of the last time was that of the art. The 110st century 2 must consider each individual case in order not to be a general exception. This is now in the second reading and included in the bill and is also in full compliance with the legislation of the European Union. We were also discussing the need to set up a water institute, we heard arguments that were made here in the first, first reading, so I'm not going to repeat it. I would like to say just in the end that after the debate was held, the committee voted by majority, 6 votes for and 4 votes against, no, 4 abstentions, it was misspelled in the minutes, we have to correct, now I see, 4 votes have been abstentioned, so I decided to propose HS adoption of the Law amending the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56337	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56338	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Today the final proposal to amend the Water Act is its second reading. I would like to point out that these amendments to the Water Act need to be accessed in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the letter of notification of the European Commission of 10 October 2019. under which the Commission has assessed that the Republic of Croatia has not properly transposed certain provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Namely, art. The 11th century. The Water Act is permitted to exploit gravel and sand by extracting from renewables in waterways and other surface water bodies through the concession Treaty if it contributes to the maintenance of water and waterways on inland waters. For the implementation of these procedures, an appropriate environmental impact assessment shall be carried out, i.e. an environmental network acceptability assessment according to specific regulations in the field of environmental protection and nature protection. However, the European Commission has assessed the provision in question. 11th century 2. Water law in the part in which an exception is prescribed from the implementation of an appropriate environmental impact assessment or an assessment of the acceptability for the ecological network according to specific regulations, which relate to cases of riverbed cleaning, in order to increase the capacity for the absorption of coastal waters in the further sequence of flood prevention and maintenance of the waterway. I would like to stress that the Water Act continues to retain the exception of the mandatory implementation of environmental impact assessment or environmental assessment in the event of procedures for the protection of human, animal, material and cultural goods and the environment in floods, as well as the elimination of the consequences of floods in the event of an urgent and unsustainable implementation of flood defence measures, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Nature and the Environmental Protection and the mentioned EU Directives. Compared to the first reading, we have several additions, one of these is the additional adjustment of art. 11th century 2. The Water Act, which fulfils the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to a letter of formal notice of 10 October 2019 of the European Commission, is in line with the conclusion of a joint meeting on the subjects in the field of the environment held with representatives of the European Commission's Chief Environment Administration on 16 June this year. The second is to regulate the provisions of the Water Institute in accordance with the Law on Institutions, and in accordance with the comments adopted by the Committee on the Law of the HS Water Institute cannot obtain the legal position of a scientific organisation at the very moment of its establishment because it does not meet the conditions for a scientific organisation laid down in the rules on scientific activity. It is therefore intended to establish a permit for carrying out scientific activities and to acquire the legal position of a scientific organisation after the establishment. Thirdly, the rights of all land-licensed owners to the compensation of market value which, under the power of the Water Act, have become a public water well-being, which will certainly help to implement that provision, since it is provided to the private market value compensation holder in accordance with the general rules of property law and art. The 50th century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to repeat what I said in my first reading, water knows no boundaries, it doesn't even know property. The adoption of this law will ensure compliance with those EU directives and will carry out horizontal and terminology compliance with the State Administration System Act and the follow-up of all the above mentioned HDZ Representatives Club will support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56339	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSLS and Reformers, according to respected representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56340	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, esteemed colleagues and fellow Secretary of State. Amendments and additions to this law by us in the club have both good and bad sides and such offers and solutions. What we consider to be good is also meeting the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in response to a letter of formal notice on compliance with relevant EU legislation, in particular in the first article. 11th century 2. Water law governing exploitation and gravel and sand in the part of which an exemption is prescribed from the implementation of... assessed on environmental impact. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Changes and implementation of this part of the law become extremely important today when we are increasingly faced with extreme weather conditions due to climate change, as well as increasingly frequent floods and floods, and this part of the law directly affects the contribution to the maintenance of waterway corridors as an extremely important prevention of floods in the Republic of Croatia. What we think is not well solved is foreseen by the establishment of a water institute, I see that a great spear has been broken around here, based on an article. 212. Water law. This institute is otherwise nothing but a new body established primarily for the control of the process in the water economy and the acquisition of public power. Unfortunately, there were a lot of comments on the law itself, as well as regulations establishing the institute. The comments show that the Institute has been established by some examples of EU countries. However, we see that it is, for example. Slovenia has completely left or changed the concept of the institute. He turned out to be unsupervised. The newly established institute will finance Croatian waters, does this mean that we will introduce new costs or increase existing costs through water fees to the economy or citizens because how to finance new people, new equipment, new rooms and the like? Water charges are necessary and no one is questioning their need, but the question is how are these water charges used and how effectively? The water compensation results in large resources overloading our economy, as well as citizens through the water treatment fee. You see and every day, every month on our accounts, actually, there's a huge amount of compensation for cleaning out the leeway and the spillwaters. It is not only the burden on Croatia's waters but also cities and municipalities, as well as companies engaged in the provision of water services. Will the establishment of the institute further increase the excessive costs we pay to Croatian waters because of their complex structure and human numbers? If there was a need for the establishment of the institute, all its activities could have been done within the Croatian Waters, their organisational and human resources reorganisation with the registration of new activities, which would have been far more effective and responsible for the users, according to Croatian citizens in the extreme case. The Institute will also have the status of a scientific organisation as we see it going in this direction, and it is established to provide scientific and professional support in water management according to the Water Management Strategy. However, in others, its activity and the implementation of surface monitoring including coastal waters, and groundwaters, as well as laboratory operations. In this way, the Institute with public powers deeply affects the market issues of freedom and imposes itself as a favoured competitor who will question the survival of many private laboratories that are not financed from the state budget or the budget of the Croatian Waters but exclusively from the services provided. I therefore use this debate on the Water Act to encourage the debate as on behalf of the club and to warn of the purpose of the establishment of this institute, its financing and its powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56341	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block, according to the respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56342	Thank you. So, as the Green-Left Block Club, of course, as one of our priorities, we have a question of water. Legal position of water in the Republic of Croatia and water protection as a general and common good, but also of course protection of water from any excessive exploitation that we have in the area of river and other waterways in terms of extraction of gravel, etc. where we had both last year and before, a lot of the negative effects on the riverbed itself, we see also that the research shows that it was done in the area of Central and Southeastern Europe to show, in fact, a very negative impact of gravel on riverbeds and a negative impact not only on the ecosystem of rivers but also on the surrounding ecosystems. That's why we're doing this. The 110nd paragraph of paragraph 2 was extremely important and it was very important for us that it was not a general exception that occurs every time, for example, when it comes to floods, but that it was, in fact, a question of environmental impact assessment and the environmental network and the question of exploitation, in this case, considered for each individual case. We believe that this is a much greater guarantee that no different malversions will actually be used by some general exception that we would actually have without assessing the impact on the ecological network and without assessing the environmental impact, the gravel that can really harm that same environment. We are pleased that now we have to decide on each individual case, but what we still have problems with the law, as we pointed out in our first reading, I pointed out on the board and here we would say once again, and that is the issue of the establishment of the water institute. So the Water Institute is I think one of the key obligations that we have actually taken with the European directives in this area is the obligation to monitor and indeed we in the field of monitoring do not still have enough capacity or we do not cover all the areas and in that sense I understand what the objective is, and what it is to achieve. However, the establishment of the institute as a professional but also with the time of a scientific organisation, which it also has a scientific base, should have gone in a different way. I consider it personal and otherwise our Green-Left Block club very often advocates one principle that where we already have the capacities existing, we use them rather than create parallels or new ones. So I personally believe that the Water Institute may have been a mixed institution with several founders, except Croatian Waters, that it may have been our existing scientific institutions and organisations such as the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and the PMF, which has the exact same good infrastructure, scientific infrastructure, so equipment and scientists that can also do certain research but also some applied research which can then be used to monitor, indicators and monitor all our obligations at EU level. Why? Because we don't have to repurchase equipment, because one of the big problems with expensive scientific equipment is that in the vast majority of cases it's not fully used, so the one we already have, is simply not using that maximum number of hours because the idea that we're going to have 30 new scientists at the Water Institute for example over a few years is, for me, the goal that is being asked whether we're going to get to the water institute of those scientists and whether we should go to that or whether we should go to that or whether the Water Institute is an institution where scientists come in, and those who are working on Ruđer, on the PMF and who are working even in some other parts, other sectors that are doing their scientific work and then come back, means that we have some kind of fluctution. Because this, this approach to creating institutions where we have parallelisms both in the number of people and in infrastructure capacity, I think it's not effective and good. So I see it, and from the experience of their work on EU projects, everyone wants to build their own building, everyone wants their equipment, everyone wants their employees, and in many cases it's something that already exists. Sometimes 200 meters away. Either a mile away or in the same city and we're not using what we have effectively. And we think that if it's about I don't know, EU funds, that it doesn't matter, so it's not, so it's our funds, too. Well, we can end up using them for something better. Here, I know that Croatian waters already have a laboratory and that you pointed out that one of the better in this part of Europe, but that is why I think that joining these scientific infrastructures and equipment with existing infrastructures and equipment at our universities and the Ruđer Boskovic Institute may have really given some extra added value, not only for monitoring and the needs of the water institute, but also for the needs of our scientists who would have perhaps a wider diapazon of research opportunities on which they work. Here, I understand that this is not going to happen now, but it has appealed to all the state bodies that when we think about establishing new institutions, new organisations, we will always try to see what we already have from resources and how we can actually include these existing resources in this new thing that we want to do. We'll have a lot less cost because look, the cost of establishing an institution is the minimum cost we'll have. The cost of keeping it all going is what the continuous cost is. So it's easy to build a building, take a million euros from European funds and build a building, what's not easy is to pay hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions to maintain that building every year from the Croatian budget, no more from the EU funds, and let's try a little bit more rational in that way. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56343	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP and will be spoken by respected representative Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, good afternoon, everyone. So, first of all, it is important that whatever there is obviously no such interest today in the assembly on this subject every time we talk about the Water Law and any changes to the Water Act, given that when talking about the Republic of Croatia from the EU's point of view of water, they are something that is often pushed into the first plan as something we really have, which is really good quality and something that will potentially be a great advantage for us in preservation, so we would dare say to our own countries in the times to come. And that's why as the SDP Club, we decided to draw attention to a few more things in this Water Act, but also to try to impose a debate perhaps on some topics that are going slowly under the table so far, no one talks about them, but we packed it all up in that, so we got recommendations from the European Commission now we're going to do it and everything is going to be great. I come from the area and the continental regions that are by the river know how seines work, know how sand extraction works, know how much it causes anxiety in the local community, and not to say that many times, there are doubts about overexploitation that often does a lot more damage than good. And now just to say that we are in line with the European Commission's recommendation, and we do not want to admit that the European Commission has seriously resented those last changes from before I am wrong 2-2.5 where it is clearly taken for the right to use an indication that someone will be able to further exploit I think it is wrong and it is not fair to the citizens of our country. And that's why, as a SDP club, we'd like to know and hope that this is the information that can become publicly available to companies, individuals in these two years have received these special permits from the Ministry of Economy so that they can exploit gravel, sand, by the ego to clean up...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56345	Please don't throw it out of the bench, please. Here you are, dear representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56346	...so I never throw to you, who could exploit gravel and sand and use something that is really raw to all of us, and not just individuals, because I think we know well how many times that works in this country when we're talking about this lobby that's about extracting gravel and sand. You have an example in Podravina in a village 20 kilometers from Koprivnica where people are raising riots, where they were doing demonstrations, where they were trying through the municipal council to tear down spatial plans, they were finally told no one asks you anything and you will have maltenes on the edge of the castles and already there has been a new exploitation field just for gravel. It's not the cleaning of rivers and riverbeds, it's not the protection of national interests, not to mention that it's not the protection of an ecological component that I think should be very, very important to us when we talk about Drava, Savi, because simply instead of turning around to get us out of the ecological environment, which we may be able to get through tourism and some other activities to live up these areas around the river will be tragic if they become the only place where someone will make good money on gravel and sand as it happens in this country regardless of how they get out of the bench. We welcome the alignment with the European Commission's recommendation, we hope it will bring something better, but I repeat think it would be fair to know who used something that the European Commission resented. Another thing we definitely cannot support as such, and we cannot be satisfied with it is the establishment of one of the new institutes in the area of the Republic of Croatia that will now deal with water. Why am I saying this? Because I come from a local area that can be praised for the results of its water and water supply companies, it can be praised by the withdrawal of European funds, it can be withdrawn by the minimal losses in the water network below the level of not Croatia but by the EU, we can boast of one of the lower water prices. And then when we add it all together and sum up we know how much of this water price and now it goes to the state budget or to go to Croatian waters, we know how many problems we have on the way where both we and Croatian waters would certainly welcome an even stronger teamwork and an even stronger financial port for this teamwork to make it easier for us to carry out our agglomerations that are large and comprehensive projects that will certainly bring new challenges, given the emergence of inflation. And we think that a simple solution to all these problems isn't the establishment of a new institute that I don't think anyone knows what they're going to do, what they're going to be responsible for and what their ultimate purpose is. Additional monitoring, further monitoring of something, and I don't think that the European Commission will give us, for example, to start with the agglomeration aspect that we introduce someone new into this story that's been uploaded to the state budget and that something is going to transport around the agglomeration itself. So, we are establishing an institute that we are certainly not convinced today that it will bring some new steps in our water economy, certainly we can't be sure that it will help our local water suppliers neither in the fight against losses in the network, nor in the fight to raise the level of purification to the third degree, nor in the fight to help them overcome agglomeration and all that it carries, but today I can say that we are discussing the establishment of a parallel that I think would be much better achieved and that it would work much better in a way that additional and greater financial resources have been given to Croatian waters in which there are certainly enough quality people to respond to this challenge. And those funds that still come up would have been like some iber if they'd gone where we still have problems with the floods today. Today's floods are mentioned, climate change is mentioned today because we know that the needs for new dams, new retentions, that data is 2-3 years old, maybe now something's changed in that year, about nine billion kuna, and we've been incometing for that item every year and we could spend 300 million kuna. So now to break a few million kunas for a new institute I don't think it's the essential solution and the essential help and not the essential step towards preserving something really quality that we have, and our water thank God it's still today. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56347	Thank you. We are now going to individual debates, so the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Josip Boric. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, so he's going to speak to a respected representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Here are these amendments to the law as a result of harmonisation with European directives, and they cannot agree with those who have said that Croatia is in violation of the rights and weaknesses arising from the transposition of the Directives, they bounce from other Member States because I have taken out data for the first 5 years of membership where we, in the field of environmental protection, where these Directives belong, have only 7 injuries and that is nothing beyond the EU average, so other Member States also face such situations. Of course, we must always seek to minimise this and that means that our proactiveity in the creation of these directives, address our views, push for some of our specificities that Croatia has, must be more intensive, well-coordinated between our representatives in the European Parliament and in the Council in order to act unitedly towards the Commission. We can say that this law is in some sense balanced because it values our natural resources on the one hand, our environment by which we are known in the EU, for its good preservation, which is our strategic advantage, on the other hand, does not prohibit the exploitation of gravel and sand. However, it seems to me that in the implementation itself when we talk about individual instruments of the law, we have certain administrative obstacles that procedures, especially environmental impact assessment procedures, lead to certain absurdities and, if I may say so, even unfortunately, which is not the meaning of this instrument of environmental impact assessment. We need her, but she should be faster, more quality and more transparent. On the other hand, we have problems with the floods, we have problems with irrigation and the wateriness of the river itself, which means we have to detect these problems and see how to remove them. We will all agree that it is not good for neighbouring countries to extract sand and gravel from the common river and then sell it, but that we need to see what solutions are possible, how these solutions through our national legislative framework can be proposed and then implemented, but also, I think, that there is also a need for international cooperation in order to have such phenomena, including some other phenomena that we are witnessing, actually prevent us because we know that, along the border, zero and hydropower plants without respecting the legal regulations and European directives that inevitably have an impact on our rivers, but also on the supply of drinking water that can be a problem for the long term. So maintaining the riverbed must certainly be our interest and it is important that we look for these solutions in a sustainable way. I must say that, in addition to harmonising with the directive, we need both the effectiveness in practice and what will be somehow implemented, follow other directives, because the basis of the initiative, the citizens' initiatives, will bring about changes to the drinking water directive where the Commission will propose certain solutions by the end of 2022, and in this sense we will certainly still discuss this law. Unfortunately, we do not have in all parts of Croatia, and in particular the suffering of rural areas, a resolved water supply system in an adequate way, in this sense, I have submitted some initiatives towards the Ministry and the Croatian Waters long before, and I thank you for getting positive answers because if we want to keep people in this area, then we must certainly provide basic, social, social and municipal infrastructure, and that water supply and disposal certainly belongs. I think it is crucial that in the 21st century we provide drinking water for each of our inhabitants, and in this sense we need to make great efforts, I am glad that the National Recovery and Resistance Programme recognized this problem and that the high resources allocated to solve this problem adequately and in a rapid manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56349	The next debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56350	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is my pleasure here to be here and individually discuss the final proposal of the Water Act, which we already discussed in our first reading, and I personally supported. Waters are one of the largest resources of the Republic of Croatia and we must protect them and therefore I am pleased that most of the projects from European funds are currently being protected by water, this resource, flood protection and water resource management in Croatia. When we look at agglomerations and flood protection, here I have personally followed through the Slap Association, you, the secretary of state at these conferences, Zagreb protects on a thousand years of water, but the problem is and there is a question of climate change, that the thousands of years of water, or water that should happen once in 1,000 years, has happened three times in the last ten years. And that's why we need to keep that source and deal with it for the sake of climate change and for the sake of everything. And that's why these replacements of the final law have three components. The first is the transposition of the frameworks of the Water Directive where it is necessary to repeat that gravel is not thus prohibited that it is very accessible 2.27 million cubic metres if I have understood it well so far, but that environmental impact assessments for.../incomprehensible/... will be for each individual case. And here's as we've heard you've also accepted that interpretation in the final, final provisions of the law. The second component is the Water Institute. I think it's extremely good, and I congratulate you on that initiative, because when we see it, and here I was also a scientific recruit at the PMF, he listens to the hydrology of Professors. I watched all other institutes and the State Hydrometeorological Institute which also has a large project Vepar for flood protection, I think we need one institution in one place, naturally this place is Croatian water. There is no such institution so far, and given the billions we invest in protecting this water resource we must have one such scientific institution and it is good to move, first moves with a professional institute, and then how it will develop, and here I believe that Croatian waters will develop their capacity primarily in the doctors of hydrology science, and I know that there are not many in Croatia, I personally know them even most. I remember, too, Professor. Biondic, as one of the biggest experts in karst and water, I know how hard it is to get enough doctors in science and I absolutely believe this is a good way. So congratulations on that. And what I tried to do between the two readings will simply not be a double of projects and resources, such as some criticisms, for the establishment of this institute. And it is good to have in one place all aspects of water, from hydrology, protection from floods, chemical analysis, water resource management in one place, and of course all other institutes and scientific institutions will participate in joint projects as they have participated so far. And the third component of the law is exactly the compensation of the owner who's out there for public good, so water projects. I think it's a very important component that wasn't so exposed in which we quite define the rules of the game in case of exorcism, and the public good must also be protected from floods and secure drinking water. But perhaps the most important thing to say is that there is no development without drinking water and without draining that same water and purification. The EU regulation also defines that it had to have a 2022 purification if I remember going penals. Therefore, we need to use this law, we need to take advantage of the possibility of European funds, and we also need to put all the heads together and through the Water Institute to ensure that this knowledge that we have accumulated becomes and develops to the benefit of Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56351	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56352	Dear counterpart Pavić, you mentioned that the biggest investments from the European Funds are aimed at protecting water. According to the people of Europe, we are one of the most in possession of this grace and my Greater Gorica, who lies on drinking water, and I am interested in how much resources are allocated to the EU waters from their resources and how much can we contribute to their preservation under this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56353	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56354	Thank you very much. So here yesterday, Ursula von der Leyen brought 47.5 billion kuna to Zagreb, of which 5.2 billion go to the water economy. So that's where we see this within this financial period, 200% of allocation is agreed, so EUR 2 billion, and I believe that significant alllocations are also foreseen for the future period. Thus, tens of billions of kunas will be available for the water economy, as I said European legislation predicts that in 2022 we have to finish agglomerations, we will pay large foams if not, and it is in our interest to protect the water resource, to ensure that we are one of the few countries in the EU where tap water can be drank. A lot of people don't have it, it's a luxury, we have it, we have to protect the water, and we have to make sure that they are for our future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56355	The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Director, colleagues and colleagues, so here's my personal opinion because I've also highlighted the amendments to the law by my amendment today, and now I'm going to say what we're changing. Those words, except in cases of protection and rescue of humans, animals, material and cultural goods and the environment in floods and in the elimination of the effects of floods in cases of an urgent and unsustainable implementation of flood defence measures, etc. So we are changing something that the EU has not recognised that there are problems with us that are such. They did not recognize because they had cleaned their rivers, fenced them with stones or concrete shores, their rivers were watery, and with them it was all arranged long ago, and now there should be Amazon rain forest, rivers could turn behind bridges and go wherever they wanted, waterways should not be cleaned, everything should be for environmental protection purposes. And what does the project Drava Life Integrated River Management 2015 say? According to the following, the Drava River from the Slovenian border to the Lower Miholjc River is divided into 29 water bodies according to its first water management, 28 of which refer to the current and one to the stables, ponds in Miholjc. After 44% of this part of the river flow, or 17 water bodies, the overall state is very bad. And 38% more bad. 7 water bodies very bad, the total state has Drava from Ormog Lake to Donja Dubrava and from Novi Via to Teresa's field. And bad on the stock from Gaba’s Greda to Novi Vir and downstream from Teresa’s field, the assessment of the very bad condition mostly stems from the assessment of the overall hydromorphological condition and only on the aquatic body in the pond of Lower Miholjac which has a very good hydromorphological condition. The floods that have blocked Drava, Sava, Una and all other rivers have required these interventions in a law that I am sure is in line with the EU directive and I will read to you the one they are calling for in our warning. I don't think we've put enough effort into removing these warnings and explaining that there are possible exceptions in the article. Thirty-two. Directive 200/60 of the European Council, reads: Exceptions to requests to prevent further deterioration or to achieve a good water condition are possible, subject to special conditions, where failures are due to unforeseen or exceptional circumstances, in particular floods and droughts, or for the reasons of the prevailing social interest of new changes in physical properties of surface waters or changes in groundwater levels, provided that all possible steps are taken to mitigate undesirable effects on the state of water. So the water condition is catastrophic. We wanted by law, by intervention in the law to contribute to it being a rapid and operational activity that would contribute to bringing water into a very good condition. We didn't make it. I don't know what to say, to define but I'm just going to say something more for these seven projects on the Drava River through the Drava Life Project, which is done. In 2017, for the procedure in question relating to all 7 locations, it was carried out... an assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment as well as an ex ante evaluation of the environmental network and a solution to the Ministry of Environment and Energy in September 2017 to carry out further environmental impact assessment process and a major acceptability assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what do you think happened? Maybe one of the seven got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56357	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56358	Agent, in your speech, I was really distracted by the demeaning that you spoke about the environmental function, literally your words read, "Is everything supposed to be in the function of environmental protection?" So I will draw attention to you that the anthem of the Republic of Croatia is called “Beautiful our homeland” so that when those words “flow Savo, Dravo,” etc., natural beauty is described. It is of paramount importance to make sure that every form of exploitation of our natural beauty is in function and sustainability and development and the well-being of all our citizens. And the fact that our institutions are not working properly, so the European Commission must remind us that we are not able to implement their directive properly, and that is to our common shame. Unfortunately, on the burden and responsibility of HDZ, which he created and prescribed during those periods, and you didn't know how to do it until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56359	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the respected representative Pavić, Marko Pavić. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56360	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, a colleague insults fellow Djakic, he did not say what you said, I just realized that environmental protection is complementary to the needs, I would only set an example of the Lonj field. The Lonj field without human intervention won't stay this way and we'll have to, so they serve all these resources to protect the areas but to put them in for use, so what you've got is an impression... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56361	Dear Representative Pavić, and you know that it was a replica and not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must receive a warning and will now speak to the respected representative Stipan Sashlin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56362	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here, these amendments to the Water Act are in line with the existing law with the relevant EU Water Economy Directives. There are several issues that are being regulated by these amendments to the law and what I want to talk about, what I would like to point out is a question related to the conditions of procedures and possibilities and exploitation and the use of sand and gravel from the stream, that is, our rivers. If we go back to the past, some 40 years ago, etc., we will see that almost all water-economic facilities, significant water-economic facilities such as dikes, Danube dikes, swaves, etc., are just built all of the materials or sands, later they are weaned and have become very effective. If there was, someone here was talking about some kind of irregularities, etc. in that exploitation or use if there were these individual lobbies I was the first to sanction and indeed needed competent institutions, inspections etc., to react so that if someone got a concession on a million cubic metres that they couldn't take out 5, but that doesn't mean that they should simply, simply forbid any use, I wouldn't use the word exploitation but use these, these resources. I don't think that's good. Today the situation is very different. Exploitation or use of these resources is conditional upon certain procedures and these procedures are defined and simply must be respected and that is also fine. The most important condition for any use of these resources today is the environmental impact study, or prior to that, to elaborate on the need to develop an environmental impact study, and then to later develop environmental impact studies, etc. And what I want to point out is exactly the problem of the longevity of these procedures. It takes a minimum of 3 to 5 months often more and then it turns out that it is practically neither allowed nor impossible to use at all, and all together it has cost us very much. This is precisely defined by this law in Article 110(2) of this current law and by Directive 2000/60 of the European Parliament, and there is very difficult anything, anything to change. The obligation, on the other hand, to maintain the airworthiness and capacity of our rivers, is a permanent task, that is, our obligation as long as the process of siphoning or clouding the application of sand and dregs, etc. these rivers and man got involved long ago, and simply when he started to regulate these flows it was an uninterrupted process that had to be implemented and it was simply our obligation. That's why we need to find a way to simplify these procedures, shorten them. It's just that any procedures that are often very urgent interventions don't last for months not to tell for years, and then eventually it turns out that maybe it's all expensive and it wasn't really necessary to eat. This one we know that these procedures that are binding are needed in some way if it is possible to comply with the other laws that apply practically to this law. First of all, it is the Environmental Protection Act and the Nature Protection Act. It's just that these laws are tightly bound and we can't, we can't consider this law for ourselves. In this respect, it is very likely that the harmonisation of these laws in the coming period will be necessary, mainly if we take into account these global climate changes that are being increasingly expressed through extremes in terms of extreme, long-term droughts and also extreme high water conditions. So we simply must not allow these procedures to become a brake in the quality and operational management of our waters. Here's what I wanted to especially highlight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56363	We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56364	Dear colleague Shaslin, I commend your debate where you have touched very momentarily other problems related to this Water Act. One of the topics you mentioned is the economy, so I would be interested in your opinion visible from your exposure that the economy should be affected and that this Water Act should affect the development of the economy, so I wonder how you thought it should be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56365	Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56366	I thank you for asking, this truly I will take this opportunity to point out that Croatia is also a Danube country. Croatia is on the Danube, and unfortunately these potentials of the Danube are very weak today we use mainly in terms of transport, economical, etc., touristic terms. It is a huge advantage, it is another highway connecting Croatia with Central Europe with Southeast Europe, etc. Also, not only the Danube but also Drava and Sava, I think it is a little time to talk about it, the strategic documents, the strategic plans for Zagreb to in some way connect with Central Europe and that these potentials of airworthiness are used in maximum because we know that, that the waterway or these routes are the cheapest that the practical economy can be recovered very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56367	Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56368	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Shaslin, an increase in river cruises on the Danube River to the pandemic and today certainly contributes to the overall development of continental tourism, so please inform us of the current state of airworthiness and maintenance of waterways in the Danube or ports for passenger ships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56369	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56370	Dear MPs, thank you for asking. Here's to the Danube right now, we've got as many as I know four ports for passenger ships. So Ilock, Vukovar, Erduto and Batini. These are all newly built ports and indeed before this crown crisis was a very good situation, a large number of landings were on all these ports. However, this also requires a certain maintenance, or low water supply, of these cruises, so that we simply have to smudge that sand out of the dock so that it is mostly watery in the summer months when the water stops to be the lowest. And then there's these situations where we're smudged by sand, we're throwing it out about 150 meters into the river, or into the river's uterus, and below that, at 2 km of business from the Republic of Serbia, that same sand is coming out, and then they're selling it to us in the Republic of Serbia. It's hard to explain to people why it's happening. And that's why there's this change. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56371	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56372	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here it is when the law is passed there are always those who are dissatisfied and who, perhaps, have other ideas, I could only point out that we are one of the few countries that has a really great water wealth, not only in large rivers but we have small rivers and especially springs. And I think that these funds that have now come from the European Commission that Ursula von der Leyen told us yesterday that yet Croatia's waters will know how to use these 5.2 billion in the best way and as far as flora and fauna are concerned, both in our environment and in the rivers and in the surrounding rivers, so I would like to ask you in some way that we, with our suggestions especially from the field, units of local administrations have little influence on Croatian waters because they are Because they're the most responsible... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56373	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56374	Thank you, Vice President. The Assembly MPs, this opportunity is now in a way that we can also praise Croatian waters in their work so far. Especially in the area of Baranja or Eastern Slavonia down or the Danube Basin, to say that in the last few years we have not had any problems regarding extremely high water conditions. Indeed, these objects are primarily high - quality dikes and provide one security in such extreme waterways, and this has proved very good. I believe that these funds will, in some ways, be used in this direction to provide, or secure, that security from floods, above all, food. Likewise, other functions to say water, or we can also boast about the preservation of our coast, above all the Danube coasts, because they are indeed one of the most preserved in the EU right now. This one we had here and the discussion where we saw certain European countries... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56375	The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56376	Your Honor, you have touched on several topics that could indeed be discussed constructively. I agree that procedures must never be their own purpose, but you should also not compromise their goal. So we really care about environmental protection and I think that we can conduct studies in a way that does not represent obstruction of those tasks that we want to achieve both in the waterways and in the exploitation of gravel. But you have touched on the need to bring this law into line with a whole series of other laws from the Nature Protection Act and beyond, I will point out that this is also one of the important topics that indicates that the legislative role of the Croatian Parliament and the legislative initiative has been lost somewhere. We hardly ever discuss how the provisions of one law are clashed or contradicted with another law, and if we really did take the job and harmonize the law here would be one practice that I would welcome with all my heart and make my contribution to it. And as for the usability of the waterways, I agree with you, we use them insufficiently. as the potential of our development. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56377	Thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56378	Dear Vice President, Parliamentarians must indeed not be a purpose for themselves, and we must not go over it lightly, and when we say these impact studies, environmental impacts must not be done in such a routine way and only that in some way they are justified. The main, main goal, or protection of the bottom of the river, is that the Danube is simply dug up every year for one centimetre, on some parts even more in Hungary by 3 cm yearly and precisely the purpose of this sand, etc., protection to protect the bottom from further burial and merger with groundwater. So there are some very serious things that really require these studies to be conducted thoroughly and professionally. And we're not against it, but we can't let every 3-4 years do a new study that lasts again a year. I think some things can be more permanent, more long term defined how We'd be... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56379	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shashin, here you have touched the Danube which is ours I would say an important river where you have a personal experience because you live near how the Danube is actually buried as you yourself mentioned and it can become a problem in the long run. So what are the solutions to correct such a condition according to the better because you are appealing here to simplify procedures and remove administrative barriers that you have identified as perhaps the biggest obstacle in the activities that should be implemented on the ground. What can we tell the ministry, what would be the priority?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56381	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56382	I thank the MPs, so here I am, unfortunately, a long time ago, but 30 years ago and over, the main problem was the disposal or disposal systems were working. Today, because of these climate change and all of this, the focus is also on retaining the amount of water so that it can be used for irrigation during critical periods. There is currently one project in Baranja that is worth some 24-5 million kuna where we are currently trying to accumulate or retain the water from the Danube in order to have it in the most critical periods.../incomprehensible/... for which it is built, or in the course of building a series of facilities that are needed for such a single system, and indeed here I say that Croatian waters make the maximum efforts to make certain quantities of water available to us, which is available to us practically as high quality as possible and to make better use of first of all for needs. agriculture and... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56383	The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56384	Dear MPs and MPs, here's what I'm going to try in the gentlest possible way in short and sum up what's the problem. So, one of the MPs before me said something in style, so if there were any prohibited activities and malfeasances, then let the competent institutions investigate, let them deal with it. There can be a point, and after that sentence you can expect pain. The problem is that we do not have a capacitated, efficient, fast and efficient institution that in time removes all malfeasances and all prohibited actions adequately punishable, and then it is necessary, among other things, that one pack that comes from the level of the EU institutions, given to us, to signal that something in the public good governance system does not work properly. Every law in a way I observe from my specific angle of action, some of my professional curiosity behind any law can be given soft of very specific amendments to that area and to that law. But what I stand for actually extends and applies to all laws more or less equally. And it's equally useful and I'm going to give you a very specific and specific example. In his individual debate, a colleague from the SDP asked if contracts with companies that have been granted the right to exploit gravel could be made public, publicly available? And I'm actually ashamed that in the 21st century, keeping in mind all the internationally recognised standards, we are at all discussing whether these contracts are public and whether they should be publicly available. In the strategy I've been talking about all along, I've been pushing for the establishment of a public register of these contracts in which they will be made available in real time, at any moment of each day and night, without having to apply for the right to access information at all, for such contracts to be obtained. I also asked for the establishment of a register not only of state, county, city and municipality-owned property, but also of registers of public goods and general goods where certain concessions or certain approvals are granted and I also requested that all those persons involved in the procedure for granting such concessions or approvals, here in this particular case, would be those people involved in the process of approving the exploitation of gravel, be covered by rules and obligations to prevent conflicts of interest. Very simple rules, so is it so difficult to adopt and implement in practice? If only such simple solutions, as far as technical sides are being implemented inside here this summer break that we're all going to go to soon, it's not absolutely no news, it's no significant step, it would be to create a minimum political will to move into such changes. And it's not just a question of this law, it's literally a matter of more or less of every law that's on our agenda. And we persistently, if we are engaged in any legislative activity at all, we are only dealing with very, very superficial implementation and copying of the EU directive and I say, obviously we are not doing it properly because we always get a warning that something has not been implemented, implemented, in line with the law intensities at EU level. We never compare one single law with whether the rules and regulations of another law, as if as a legislator we don't care at all about the quality of the regulations we adopt, and about what's important, what's that invisible thread that connects absolutely all our laws and actions of all institutions, so that's the soaking in corruption from which it can't be copied because we simply adopt some anti-corruption measures and tools that are literally already applicable in practice, so here I'm going to say, in the canton of Sarajevo. So they became more advanced than the Republic of Croatia as an EU member in some of the issues and in some of the areas. I must admit, honestly, here I call the representatives to dialogue, to the willingness to talk about it at all, and ultimately, we need to understand that these are not criticisms that come from the lines of opposition, this is something that should actually be in your best interest to wash yourself from the mildness and image you wear and ultimately, this is something that should be in favor of all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56385	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56386	Dear MPs, our view is that not only contracts should be made publicly available, but all data should be available, or all documents related to the analyses that were carried out before and after the use of that stream. In fact, we give concessions to manage one piece of natural wealth to someone. And we need to see what it is and how he managed it. What were the results of all this together? What did the analysis show? If we can't see it, we can't judge anything. And how are we gonna make decisions like that? And we as Parliamentarians and those who will next time... These assets are repurchased or concessioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to have it available.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56387	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56388	Thanks, buddy. I fully support your position and your proposal, and I advocate that such solutions are implemented in practice as soon as possible and I just have to mention that this is not something that someone has thought of in the world and implemented such solutions from the sky, but the fundamental goal that they want to achieve is building trust, i.e. to restore trust in the institutions. We know that our citizens do not trust the institutions, have a legitimate fat reason for it, this would be one way to convince everyone in their eyes what these were reasons, which were the arguments, which were the criteria for each individual decision on concession. Your proposal would extend the reach of publicly available data and see who brought it and, of course, that such a single system not only reduces corruption risks but actually creates an alliance and partnership between citizens and authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56389	And now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State Mario Shiljeg will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, I thank everyone for the constructive debate on this proposal, and I would only like to point out two, three facts that nothing remains in the air. This bill definitely believes that we have well balanced the interests of environmental protection on the one hand, on the other hand, the interests of water-economic companies dealing with the extraction of gravel and sand, it is not prohibited to extract gravel and sand, it is once again important to point out that gravel and sand can be extracted in a manner and in a way that requires a mandatory process of environmental impact assessment and a major assessment of acceptability on the ecological network. What is the contribution of this final proposal is the fact that we have managed to define certain exceptions in this law when it comes to emergency situations and individual situations in emergency situations as defined in the legislation that defines businesses, for example, civil protection. So there's no ban on extracting gravel and sand, you can extract gravel and sand with an environmental impact assessment and a major assessment of acceptability for the ecological network, and I don't think it should be a problem for all of us, if it's a problem, then we have a trust problem in institutions that carry out environmental impact assessment. Certainly from the debate through the working bodies of the Parliament, we have come naturally together to the conclusion that there is space in these procedures too, to improve them so that we can all be satisfied with the final draft of the law. A lot of questions about the water institute again, the establishment of the water institute is not the subject of this law, 28. Six. In 2019, the Water Act was adopted and a decision was taken at the same time on the establishment of a water institute, so 2 years ago. The provision for the establishment of the Water Institute exists in the strategy, water management since 2008 and in the last 10 years is in the Water Law. What will be the cost, whether it will be a new cost, a new increase in compensation, means the fees will not be increased due to the establishment of a water institute, the cost of taxpayers is zero, why, because part of the compensation that Croatia's water so far is collected for the purpose, is only directed to the water institute that will unite the care and affairs of monitoring and the development of professional bases for quality management of the water economy. As for the secrecy or public information of companies carrying out the work of extracting gravel and sand, it was a question of a respected colleague from the SDP, how many are such and which are companies, the answer is very simple, according to this exception which he mentioned, defined by this law, we have zero companies that have obtained permission to extract gravel and sand, i.e. It's not a single one. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56391	Here's a few replicas. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, Croatia is at the very top of Europe by the quantities of renewable drinking water, we know that by biodiversity we are the strongest in the EU of all Member States, that we have a really great potential, the largest in the EU for development was the economy, that a huge part of our agricultural areas in Natura 2000, so there are a number of factors where we can boast of a well-preserved nature and the environment, and of course our goal is to remain that way in the future, that this strategic advantage is our engine of our development. You yourself said that there is room for progress when we talk about some administrative procedures, especially when it comes to an environmental impact assessment, so what can we do to make this procedure faster, more efficient, more efficient, more transparent?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56393	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56394	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So what we can do, we've already done a part of it, that in the previous period means we've decided on the process of assigning four years of programs, means the work of extracting gravel and sand, which means that the procedure and the time to get the necessary consent to carry out such processes is significantly reduced. I agree with you, of course, with the conclusion that there is more space, there is room in the sense that we will take care of and find a modality in which this kind of business in a process that will precede the performance of such works, we have a multidisciplinary approach where more professions will certainly be participated and according to their knowledge and jobs that they do contribute to a faster and more efficient achievement of such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56395	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56396	Dear Secretary of State, we have also mentioned in the discussions the specificities and diversity that we are facing the EU and what diversity within the Republic of Croatia and the specificity and importance we have said for us, both colleague Shaslin and many before him means economic and economic development. Is this harmonisation of the law the specificities of certain parts, in particular I am talking about my Great Gorica which is a very important water factor because we are lying on the springs of drinking water are fully protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56397	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56398	All programmes and projects carried out within the water economy administration, and here I am free to say within Croatian waters, are definitely required to take care of the environment above all, i.e. The environmental contribution and the climate contribution of new projects and programmes and what I particularly look forward to is a new financial perspective where, apart from the climate contribution that will be either 30% or 37% per project, we will have a new contribution, so we will have to take care of biodiversity, meaning the parameters that will be assessed with the contribution to climate, we will also have biodiversity. You certainly well pointed out that your area is one of the areas that will have and already has and will play a crucial role in water supplying water for human consumption of the entire area, but also in parts of the City of Zagreb, so I believe that one such scientific institution will work through the Institute of Water and Jobs that it will manage. contribute to better protection... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56399	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56400	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here we have seen that you have improved the law compared to your first reading. Personally, I agree with you that a certain good balance has been made between the development of the economy and the need to protect the environment. Like we said, tens of billions of kunas are available. Here came the 5.2 billion kuna for the water economy yesterday. What makes me particularly happy is just revitalizing the institute. You said it was not a novelty, it would now facilitate its establishment, but I just think it is an additional contribution to this law, an additional value to Croatia that with these tens of billions of kuna we have one place where it will be, that it will just be in Croatian waters where all these projects are being done and that it will make a significant contribution to both the profession and the scientific research of water and protection of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56401	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56402	Thank you very much. And this exhibition of yours is in favour of how much European legislation and meanings and high standards set in European directives are relevant in the area of the water economy, since for us, in order to achieve our targets, we have seen some EUR 3.7 billion from the time of Croatia's accession. So EUR 3.7 billion in investment to meet the standards is impossible without EU funds and, accordingly, the least we can do is to fully balance our legislation and adapt to the standards of developed Europe, and of course, the benefits for us will be very visible and above all visible to generations that follow in terms of preserved national wealth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56403	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56404	The esteemed secretary, as well as the law, also says in an explanation of the law that the concession can be given if it actually uses the waterways and if it uses the environment and needs to be done before exploitation and analysis. Or to make it see what and how it works and what it's going to get afterwards. I think we agree that it's actually an unlimited resource because it's renewable unlike the quarry where it's possible to evaluate how much ore wealth is going to be exhausted here is impossible to do by heart. So I'd like to ask you for information that all institutions are involved in after receiving the concession and which the ministries are in charge of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56405	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56406	Thank you very much, if we are talking about this part of the concession, there is an inevitable role of course of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, or former Waterway Agency. The second key body is Croatian water. As for these environmental procedures, there is a key Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, i.e. the Institute for Environmental and Nature Protection, which came from the State Nature Protection Institute. So they're conducting acceptability procedures for the environmental network, and we see that, this is exactly the procedure that I'm talking about now has caused perhaps the greatest interest in adopting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56407	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56408	The well-respected representative of the motionor somehow remained hanging in the air, so that it was not unscheduled, so when we talked about the availability of contracts concluded with private companies, it was not just about whether anyone got permission to exploit the gravel but all forms of concessions or any rights on any water goods. And the question was not aimed at answering us now whether such companies exist and which, rather, are willing to implement a system that would allow such contracts as all decisions and any acts that preceded the conclusion of any contract or the granting of a certain authorisation or concessions to be made publicly available at any time of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56409	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56410	Through a multi-year construction program this strategic documents are available such data. Croatian waters where contractors have an obligation and implement the obligation to make all such data publicly available. As far as the data that preceded the decision is concerned, I think that's what this is, of course, I admit you're much more focused on the situation, but I think we're mandatory and we haven't had a single problem under the law on the availability of information. So we didn't have a single case where we had an inability or where the break wasn't satisfied with the availability of this information that you were just asking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-09-0.u56411	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
