ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57745	Thank you very much, and now we're moving on to taking a stand at exactly 1:00. The first in front of the MOST Club is Mr Marin Miletic, I said, Marin yes, I said, I said Marin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57746	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Furio Radin, dear Mr. Bukarica, dear colleague, I will speak again today about the scarecrows. Who about what, Marin Miletić about the scarecrows who were again heard here in the Croatian Parliament yesterday from colleagues from We were shining panic, shining fear, radiating emotions that directly cause it, we well know the comorbidity very clearly says anxiety and fear, be careful before diabetes are dangerous for COVID, and here we heard this honorable home, calling for strict measures, strict measures and some I don't know, lockdown. They glow panic and fear, the numbers infected even though we heard it, I think it's from the ruling ones, that I should stop counting those infected, to be clear, COVID is not harmless, COVID is not harmless, far from it, but if I'm not mistaken, I think I read on Twitter, that the prime minister now said 15 minutes, that the total number of all the deceased with COVID and COVID, 93% of the deceased are people who are over 60 years old. That says a lot of things very clearly, a few things. So let's stop counting the infected, because in the end I was personally infected, 10 days I was in isolation, 11 days I ran 7 km, a minute weaker than I usually do and I say very clearly, so we're not reducing the danger, I'm very clear, I'm very clear, for risk groups, older people, people who have certain diseases, broken immune system, etc. So, I guess these scarecrows are dreaming about Slovenia, so they don't have a people's tanker, so cars without COVID confirmation and let's ask what would Croatia get, what would the Croatian people get if such a team of greens came to power, that such people run our country? So, scary, I'm in shock. So the measures do not reduce the number of infected, they only slow down the spread of the infection and we know that for all relevant studies, they say up to 20%. Well, I mean, that's Tengnell, so the Swedish epidemiologist, that's Great Britain, they've changed their attitude, says we can't achieve collective immunity, we need to learn to live with COVID, be responsible, watch our behavior, and that's good, so we need to live, and not any closures and no crazy measures that have nothing to do with anything. And that's why we need to go through Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden, which has been fully opened, have more vaccinated, but we too have a large number of over-experienced, masks don't make any sense, and therefore thanks to the Mayor of Varazdin, Chabra and my colleague Miri Bulju and his professional team, so that they said that these masks don't make sense in a particularly educational system, so the University of Waterloo in Canada says that these masks that we wear surgically, up to 10% protect. That's scientific research. That's not what Grandma Wang said. So these are official scientific research and ultimately the government's advisor writes, again 45 minutes ago on Face that you need to lift the masks. Scientist Lauc, that's what he writes, so I didn't read it anywhere in a village. That's right, pal, I agree, take off your masks, so it doesn't make sense. So let's let the kids go to school without masks, because there's no point, there's no argument, while you think there's an argument, then you're wearing, brother, because we listen to science, we don't listen to ideologies, we don't listen to scares, we don't listen to those who don't know, over that I guess our people should shut down in some basements again, so a lot of it. That's enough of that. COVID passports so they don't make sense, why? Well, because science said that vaccines also carry the virus, the truth, on a smaller scale. On a smaller scale, it takes a very clear word, in a smaller volume, but it transmits. And then you give them false security that people who are vaccinated go to nursing homes, risk groups, so they can transfer the virus to hospitals. So, you need to cancel the COVID passport. I know that I may have entered the prime minister with this topic, my colleague Miro Bulj and I, and then they're waiting to rule, and in a month, they're going to stop, but they don't have to wait, you're ruling, your biggest responsibility and you're free, so we're going to clap, I told you, so I clapped, there's a colleague yesterday who's surprised, praises HDZ, so I'm going to praise anyone who's bringing good laws and proposes something for good, so here's my top IDS colleagues, no problem to praise IDS. I'm a colleague of Sandra's from Can! I praised from the Ecology Committee, I supported the SDP Act, the executive law was, so that's what, so I'm not lobotomyd, that what I'm saying is not my party, I'm not going to do it, so I'm not lobotomyd, all that's good for Croatian people, my conscience, I'm going to support, I'm going to raise my hand, so I don't have bosses above me. Well, I have my conscience and my dear God, so I'd best be afraid of someone from my own party, thank God I don't work like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57801	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, time. [[Intruder Miletic: I did not finish, okay.]] Thank you. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo will make a personal point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57802	Ladies and gentlemen, in a report in July this year, the European Commission marked the Croatian judiciary as the worst in the EU and the paying power of Croatian citizens after Bulgarians, the weakest in the EU. In those days, I expected that Croatian media would declare this European Commission to be tough Croatian nationalists, Ustasophils and conspiracy theorists because, as we know today in Croatia, you are making arguments about the facts, then you are getting the labels mentioned. Since European Commissioners Veri Jouro or Margrethe Vestager are not very logical to give labels that are Croatian nationalists, the Croatian media have not approached me, for example, when I express the facts, but have already applied pattern number 2, ignoring, which I am also experiencing, and if someone is wondering how something that is extremely relevant to the media is silent and, at the same time, something that is not worth mentioning is being over-inflated, then the answer to that question can also be found in that report by the European Commission, which says that the government through the advertisements of state-owned companies affects the editorial policy of the media. If someone suspected these allegations by the European Commission, then last Friday could convince themselves of the truthfulness of the European Commission's claim, the media bombed us with the alleged historical success of DORH and Bozinovic's police because they discovered that Assembly representative Kovac was writing false SMSs and that the Mayor Posavec allegedly hired without criteria and that the acquaintance gave him 10,000 kuna. The nartod for these things has one expression, which is “shooting guns at mosquitoes”. Of course, you should be persecuted and committed like this, but they're being solved by a lower level, literally an intern cop, because these are the cases in the first one called "bagatel delicacies," but the bagatel delicacy is not the next case that I'm going to point out because it's about a competition of over 200 million kuna. This week, Weekly National published a text on a competition that is under way in HEP and said that contrary to every rule, part of the HEP administration met with Minister Coric because HEP administration cannot agree on whom to assign a job. As is known in Croatia, there is a Public Procurement Act and this kind of meeting is totally illegal because the law clearly provides for a way in which jobs are assigned. Will Tomislav Ćorić and HEP's Frano Barbaric and Marko Ćosic be arrested? All of us Croatian citizens know well that they will not because, as the vice president or vice president of the assembly would say, the coalition talks must harmonize how to apply the laws. It is this very statement that diagnosed the cause of all Croatian troubles. Laws are passed, not agreed. The fundamental, key problem of the Croatian state is the suspension of the rule of law in which the hair openly demonstrates violations of the law, and judicial bodies such as domestic poodles follow this lawlessness. Every Croatian citizen should be aware that he pays abnormal interest 3 times the rate paid by the German, Hungarian or Czech and because corruption is generally present and the judiciary is functioning. The sacred and lofty goal of the Croatian state in 2021 is to overthrow a violent group from politics, justice and media that organisedly violates European values and Croatian laws, shamelessly enriching itself, creating poverty and forcing Croatian people to leave their country. Here, a special appeal should be made to members of the parties who participate in the authorities that they are obliged to raise their voice against their party leaders because the fact is that this year 5,000 first-graders are less enrolled in schools, that this is the exclusive responsibility of these party leaders and their supporters. I deny every right to be called a Croatian patriot, a Democratic or a European who violates the laws of anyone who steals his country, who takes away the right of a Croatian citizen to his legal rights and makes any kind of abuse. The one who does this is neither patriot nor democratic but a traitor. Croatia is a rich country, rarely populated with an ideal geographical position, which cannot live with full lungs solely because the outlawed and imposed ruling structure sacrifices its own people for its petty interests by suspending Croatian laws and European norms. As a society, we have a choice to be organized, decent, civilised state in which laws and rules are respected, or to be an unsettled hiducius in which they profit from unfair and violent, which is paid by those who are the vast majority, which are Croatian citizens. And I will paraphrasise Chancellor Adenauer between the just Croatia and the corrupt state I choose the just Croatia, but I will also make it clear from the Croatian Parliament today that anyone who does evil to his people will eventually be punished. The Croatian people will be able to fight for equality before the law, for European values and we will create a fair and rich Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57812	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs Urša Raukar Gamulin, who will present the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, it's been two weeks since we read in the paper how director Rajko Grlic addresses the culture minister crying for the salvation of Croatian film heritage. He says, I address you as one of every day of the ever-increasing few Croatian film directors who spent their lives making films on the film tape of one of the celloids to which emulsion has a limited life span. First the color goes away, then the edge to eventually go and the whole picture. When that happens, the movies disappear forever, they can't be restored, restored, brought back to life, they're dead. The culture minister didn't answer him, no one answered him. A dead cold state lets its property go to waste. According to Grlic, the pace of reconstruction is 2 films a year. From 220 of our films made in the 20th century today, they were only restored 20th and at a rate of 2 refurbished films a year we can guarantee that most of these works will be irrevocably destroyed. On his deathbed 8 years ago, the great Croatian film Krsto Papic wrote a letter to the Croatian public begging to stop the loss of film works and create a precondition for reconstruction. It reminds the state that it is required to protect its property even when it is subject to the right of various suspicious tycoons. The answer to Papic's last move as well as this recent Grlic was a complete silence from the administration. In time, such a power of habit has become only understandable to us that film heritage is left to chemical decay, the faces of actresses and actors forget, that the records of our landscapes are released and left to nothing, and the best creators of past generations to ignore. We are not ready for the tasks that European people have done long ago. Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania have been able to restore and edit their film heritage with conscious work, only Croatia has not. It should finally be publically revealed why. From TV screens of the most diverse channels of Internet services, we are showered today by countless movies of older dates restored, shiny, sounded. Certainly always American or European, Japanese or Latin American as many Slovenian or Serbian as possible, Macedonian at no time or almost never Croatian. It would be good to find out why again. 17 candidates for directorship at the Academy of Drama Arts wrote a test and among other things answered the question of who Fabian Šovagovic is. Only one candidate knew the correct answer. And why is that? Because our classic movie is not in school programs, on television, on the Internet, or on the cinema network. And it's better not to be gone than to show the invisible and half-destructed scans that HTV sometimes shows. Only 10% of 155 million kuna as planned for the reconstruction of the Ban Courts would be enough to restore all of them, but just all of Croatia's entire evening films that were made by 2000, but this is not happening. The reason I'm afraid is not in money, but in lack of will, interest and understanding. I therefore appeal to the Minister of Culture and to the Prime Minister to take whatever it takes to urgently go to the rescue of Croatian film heritage. Time is running out and soon it will be irrevocable too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57864	Thank you. Mrs Grozdana Peric will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57865	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am going to talk about sort of economic issues. Namely, Croatia is in the second quarter of 2021. had a growth in GDP of 16.1%), the fifth result among EU members after Spain, France, Hungary and Italy. The EU average is 13.2%. All of the GDP components on both expenditure and revenue side grew compared to the second quarter of 2019, which proves that we are in a large recovery period. GDP growth at an annual level above 16.1% shows that the Croatian government gave a strong response to the crisis and ensured economic stability under pandemic conditions. The fact is that today in the Republic of Croatia there are more employees than before the covid-19 crisis. In July, a million 586 thousand 735 people were employed, while some 119 thousand were unemployed. After measures to preserve jobs, it became a job creation phase. The biggest contribution to annual GDP growth in the second quarter of 2021 comes from the growth of personal consumption of 18.4%, exports of goods and services that increased by 35%, services in particular 56%, and this is due to the recovery of tourism. Investments increased 18.3 and imports increased 30.3%. Although investment has grown lower than was projected, we are confident that the activation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan will bring about change in both the public and private sectors. So over 24 and almost 25 billion euros, respectively. The record GDP growth was last in '97. and was 7.2%, now in the mid-term of 2021 compared to 2020 was 7.7%. Of course, we expect a full recovery of the economy even before 2022. However, the reason for this optimism is the majority of positive economic indicators that are more than the original projections. Therefore, with all the efforts that have been made in time, along with the reforms mentioned in the National Programme and with all these resources that we are expecting and we are seeking to withdraw them, we expect that recovery and change will take place. So let us use time, use resources best and best to create Croatia as we wish and as we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57950	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Prkachin will be the position of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u57951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Almost shocked by what my colleague Raukar said or Rauhar, I'm not talking about what I planned. I'm talking about something else. I was planning on talking about the very bad Census List Act and Census Rules that look like Ilia Garashanin was resurrected and brought these rules to play. So, the criminal Serbian Orthodox Church, which has done more evil to the Croatian people than anyone in the last hundred years has been incredibly convenient. But what do I want to talk about? Shocked by the fact that one of the biggest Croatian actors is an artist who has forgotten publicly now I will talk about neglected Croatian sizes. During our vacation, the summer Olympics were held the most significant sports event on planet Earth. So, this event, which has been practiced in ancient times, and restored 125 years ago with sports significance, has both political meaning and economic and other meanings, and otherwise the superficial observers know what sport means in the affirmation of popularization in the total value of one country. For this reason, I will talk about the underpriced dilettaneous negligent attitude of the Croatian state towards the top sport in focus will be the Olympic champions' awards. Croatia gives a prize of 200 thousand kuna for gold, for silver 150, and for bronze 100, and Serbia, let's say, three times more, and Kosovo almost four times more. Are Serbia and Kosovo so richer than Croatia? It is not but that those who lead them are aware that they have more and more cultural and sports widths or may be a little more national consciousness, so they enjoy their champions more for that reason. But when it took me this way to move on quickly, so 100,000 kuna, that's not small money, as it were, that's it, but you know what kind of money it is? That's the money you get for third place at the Olympics. I remember as a boy in the "Sport News" painting of the Olympic medal, it says "this is what it looks like for many of the unattainable Olympic medals". The medal is inaccessible for 7 billion people and has been won by a Croat or a Croat and has received 100,000 kuna for it. 100,000 kuna is serious money, but money that a gambler, a bum, a bum, even though every bum, every gambler doesn't have to be a bum, can walk through the city in the first casino, actually not in the casino, but the autoclub in an hour lost or won. That's, that's the money. The 200,000 kuna that is obtained for the gold medal is, that is, a concubine of a rickety Croatian politician in a afternoon walk on Tesla Street, given the gift of God's favor. I mean, since it's a fine lady, I'm not gonna tell her concubine. So, nothing human to me is foreign to me, and neither is concubine, and I'm not some kind of sergeant here, some kind of... But please, when from the same register there is a top athlete who should be in the history of the Croatian people and a colossal concubine, so it bothers me, when, therefore, it's a propriety, when it has a successful entrepreneur, when it has a successful athlete, when it has a man of exceptional value and gets a high salary, so it does whatever you want, but from the state register of Croatia, the one who grabs it as much as it can, and the one who waits with dignity waits for that almost nothing. So there is a prostitute, a thief and a bandit who is also in the Croatian budget, who is at peace with the will. Normally, it has no biological, life or biological birth, it is a political creation, it lives in a concubine with the Croatian government, it is this mentioned Serbian Orthodox Church. I say to you that one porphyria, that one Jovan from Pacrac, that one Gerassim is better paid than the Sinkovici brothers. The Sinkovici brothers, if we were the people, what my son told me when we talked about it once, told me that we were the right ones to build a castle on Jelačić's salary, one with one side, the other on the other side. No, I don't. I'm saying what they get monthly is that it's so less than what they get these and I'm running out of time again. It could've been more, we'll keep going, we'll keep going. In fact, what? So, gentlemen of the HDZ, don't make a MOST, don't let the Homeland Movement, don't let us propose a new Sport Act to buy political points on that... but you initiate a change in sports behavior and rewards. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58005	Thank you very much. It's a free stand, uh, it's a free stand. If I understand correctly, you will continue to hope with information about, about prices. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58006	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about a current situation for farmers in Istria because it is these days that the harvest of the Istrian industrial pomitor ends and our farmers do not have enough problems with the weather, or the difficulties that threaten their efforts and work, as well as the problem of communication with Podravka, which is the key buyer of the Istrian industrial tomatoes. This is particularly surprising when we consider the fact that Podravka is still under significant control of the state. Let's just think of the way a new management president was elected, and I believe that the state should or should be the goal of strengthening, not the failure of agricultural production and small OPGs. Even in time, we had government announcements that Podravka would strengthen and expand the volume of its business in the coming period. So it's really embarrassing to surprise the neglect we can see these days towards Istrian farmers. Because if this situation continues to threaten us to shut down the O.P.G., the death of another part of the domestic agricultural sector. The Istrian County recognised the importance of developing domestic agriculture so that numerous projects were launched to improve agricultural infrastructure. I will highlight only the large irrigation project Cervar Porat – Basharnka worth 111 million kuna, almost 15 million euros per 550 hectares. However, in order for all of this to ultimately make sense, there must be synergy and communication between all those involved in the chain. In particular, I mean the manufacturer's and the buyer's cooperation. The topic of the talks must first and foremost be the security of purchases, but also the price of purchases which unfortunately is increasing every year, and the price of finished products is increasing, which brings us to a practically absurd situation, but also to the question of how sustainable this story is at all. Otherwise, all the millions invested by the county and state with the help of European funds in irrigation projects and similar projects will be questioned if the production of food ultimately cannot be sold at an adequate price guaranteeing the viability of agricultural producers. And in the end, from a situation like this, who knows which way the importers will benefit, which I believe is unacceptable to all of us. Industrial pomidor manufacturers in Istria have proven themselves to be the quality of their products for many years and do not deserve to be treated in this way, that they do not receive answers from the responsible persons in Podravka. The sub-level must be one of the engines for the development of Croatian agriculture and therefore it must have more hearing for small OPGs and food producers because only such synergy approach can lead to long-term sustainable agricultural production because any forest in communication or ignoring farmers is not a good way for any company and therefore I call on responsible people in Podravka to tell Istrian farmers what their future is. It's the minimum our farmers deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58021	Thank you, too. Before in the crowd, I'm not sure I said it, it was Mr. Lerotić from the IDS who was taking the IDS position. Ma'am, if I have said it again, this one, Mrs. Anya Shimpraga, will be the position of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58022	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday and today, many have used minutes to warn of major or minor problems in our country. I will speak of a natural disaster that has equally struck every corner of our country. The effects of climate change are felt in all parts of the world, some regions are increasingly experiencing extreme weather and rain, while others are experiencing increasingly intense heat waves and droughts. So in Lake Kruščica in Lika instead of water to the throat, the drought reached the throat. In particular, sectors largely dependent on certain temperatures and rainfalls, such as agriculture, forestry, energy and tourism, are affected. Although we don't think of it that way, but it's just a drought that's a natural danger that causes more deaths and dissipates more people than any other natural disaster. Climate change will increase the chance of worsening droughts and water shortages in many parts of the world. The drought certainly does not know the geographical and political boundaries, for the richer countries, drought is the biggest part of the economic problem. Although droughts cannot be completely prevented, regular monitoring and early warnings may be possible to mitigate its negative consequences. What I would like to warn but also to support the appeal of the Croatian agricultural chambers and farmers is to find concrete and at this point the best solutions for market disturbances in the livestock sector and in total agriculture. It is important to note that through the rural development programme for this sector in the last 2 years, more than 400 million kunas have been realised through several measures, but needs remain high. To help this sector, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber proposes a series of short- and medium-term measures such as one-time support, their earlier payment, the retention of corn and olives in Croatia through commodity supplies, but also the marking of domestic products, the settlement of agricultural land issues, capital investment in grain storage and processing. In addition to the structural problems in the domestic livestock sector and the rapid rise in input prices, the year marked drought, mainly in the pasture part of the year. In the like area, almost 80% of the source was dried, and the water for cattle is brought up to 50 km away. I'm not even talking about Dalmatia. It's been a long time since it rained. It's almost gone. One option of policy support is in the form of support, e.g. from the Fund for Drying, Investment discounts, which are based on adaptation to climate change, tax measures and the like. The analysis of the Faculty of Agriculture Engineering of Osijek showed that there was a rapid rise in the prices of the input or the cost of feeding cattle, which in 2021 total was about 50% of the material costs and currently exceeds 70% in certain sectors. The result is the rise in the price of cereals, cereal processing and livestock food where in some cases prices are higher than 50%. Such a situation in the market is causing business with the loss of the analysed livestock sector and without concrete and rapid measures, there will be a collapse of livestock production and milk production. Extreme drought has also brought the potato manufacturer into an unfavourable position. Due to the increased cost of production, the price has increased, the crop has been reduced by 40% if not more, although some large producers have resolved and irrigated for part of the parcel. Through many expert analyses, it has been concluded that successful integrated drought management requires changes in the current management that has been focused on reactions and the effects of drought and financial assistance to reduce the risk and resistance of drought. The new approach is partly based on greater knowledge of better control of climate mechanisms, from the beginning to the end of the dry period, on other factors affecting the creation and termination of drought as well as on the level of vulnerability of communities of industry and ecosystems. An effective response to climate change requires innovation at global level. This isn't the first time the SDSS club has warned about the problems of the little man that it all starts with and ends without food, there won't be any survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58075	Thank you, too. Ms. Anka Mrak Taritaš will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58076	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In 6 days, the next Wednesday will be 18 months from the earthquake that hit Zagreb and neighbouring counties. It's also been almost nine months since the earthquake in Bani. I have spoken countless times about this topic here in the Parliament, either in free speech, or in law, I have talked about this subject in both the media and the public, and it is truly amazing for me that in essence, especially in Zagreb, in these 18 months nothing has changed. Today, it has been exactly a year since the earthquake - damaged Law was published in the National Journal. A law that wasn't passed by consensus, unanimously as it tries to show itself. Neither I nor my colleague from the Center and Glass Club voted in favour of the law. First, it took the government six months after the earthquake to write the law and get into the parliamentary procedure and then as soon as we saw it, it was clear that it was bad and unimplementable. That's what I was saying back then, that's what I'm saying right now, and it was absolutely clear that I wouldn't vote for him like I didn't. An even bigger problem is the programme of measures adopted under the law, instead of ensuring rapid action and solving the problems in which people have found themselves. The process has become a showy exercise of bureaucratic madness and the general incompetence of the state. He's founded the Renewal Fund, he's got a director, he's got a council that has nine people sitting in, but now you can see that fund is not serving anything, nothing at all. He didn't do anything except the director of the fund and the minister of spatial planning and construction and state property constantly publicly through the media arguing about who's responsible for what he did and who hasn't done the job. The truth is, they're both guilty because neither one or the other did the job. The fund manager actually only records the defeating statistics of unfinished work, the number of failures and failures. The two of them and the departments that run still deal with paperwork that doesn't end or end. Someone calculated that you need 40 kg of documents, and during that time, time passed comes another winter in which many of our citizens will sleep in containers, various types of inadequate accommodation or in unrenewed houses and apartments some without gas or other options to warm up. The law and the programme of measures are much more complicated than, say, the Construction Act, and no wonder nothing can be done about them. Everything the fund should do and not work could be implemented through the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation with the establishment of another special service in the ministry. Now that after a year and a half, even the rulings have come to mind that the law is no good, I suggest that in the changes that are being prepared be the abolition of this phantom fund that does nothing and doesn't serve anything. After the flood in the county of Posavina in Gunja and other settlements in 13 months, 1089 residential buildings were renovated, of which 288 were rebuilt. For 1201 the buildings are citizens who have recovered their own solutions and have been paid for their money, have reconstructed 4 health buildings, 16 schools and sports halls, 4 sports buildings and 14 social homes. And before it could be built and renovated, we took down and removed 487 building examples of work in the Zagreb area and surrounding counties so far has been torn down, destroyed 4 buildings. And otherwise at the end of the 19th century after that catastrophic HNK earthquake in Zagreb was built in 16 months, a skyscraper in Ilica in the late 1950s in the last 13 months, a Hot Tower in 2004 for a little over a year, the Empire State Building in New York was built for 16 months at the beginning of the 1930s. In 18 months, our government and the fund have failed to rebuild a single building even though it has been worth €683 million in the government's account for the reconstruction of public buildings. I'm afraid that the restoration after the earthquake will only be remembered once as the greatest shame of the people who lead this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58139	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58140	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, one of the main topics in the Croatian public space in the past few months is the EURo and Croatia's possible entry into the euro area. Prime Minister Plenkovic, Finance Minister Maric, Governor Vujcic, speaks on several occasions about the so-called "Vujcic". the benefits of the EUR and the advantages of Croatia by entering the euro area. So a few days ago, Prime Minister Plenkovic said that by entering the euro area, currency risk disappears, exchange costs, interest rates will be reduced, foreign investment boosted. Finance Minister Maric, meanwhile, says it will improve the RS credit rating by entering the Eurozone. However, one and the other are silent about the real state of our economy, the real standard of our fellow citizens. So let's deal with the facts a little bit, and they're next. The fact is that Croatia is, according to all indicators, especially GDP per capita, the EU's most recent. The fact is also that the budget deficit for 2020 was 7.4% and 3.8% is planned for 2021. The fact is also that the share of public debt in GDP is 88%. It is also a fact that in the last few months there has been a drastic collection of numerous food products as well as building materials. So, for example, a few months ago, a liter of oil in stores cost 10 to 12 kuna, and today it costs 15 kuna, for example a kilo of pods last year cost 20 kuna this year, for example, a kilo of young carrots last year cost 12 to 15 kuna this year, 15 to 18 kuna, a kilo of Slavonic sausage, and that cost us 60 to 70 kuna in Slavonia last year as much as 90 kuna. And those are the facts. Construction material, Styrofoam, iron has accumulated more than 100% in the last few months but the fact is also that in all the countries that introduced the EUR-o, there has been a collection of both food products and services. Somewhere less. And there will be an additional wave of poverty for Croatian citizens. It will especially hit the most critical groups, our pensioners. And there will be a new wave of emigration because there will be an additional decline in the standards of Croatian citizens. And these are facts that you don't want to talk about and that you don't want to talk about. And so the only one who has the right to say something about changing national currency is the Croatian people, and what are you afraid of the referendum if you're right? I think the people know best what's best for him. In the past few days, Prime Minister Plenkovic has been put above the law, above the people and above the constitution, saying there will be no referendum. We enter the dark zone of democracy, it's the twilight of democracy. Prime Minister Plenkovic will not decide whether there will be a referendum around the euro, Croatian citizens will decide if they collect enough signatures and possibly a constitutional court. Likewise, the prime minister of us who advocate the launch of the referendum calls, saying that we have not contributed and contributed to Croatia's EU accession as black as it is under the nails, and that we are not even politically existing at the moment, while forgetting that at the moment all of the ruling functions are being held by individuals who have also not contributed to the creation of the Croatian state as black as under the nails, but at the moment there were both military bonds and minors. But we are legalists, we respect the will of citizens because they have received the support of Croatian voters, but we also call on them to respect the Croatian people and to call a referendum because the only Croatian people can give a final line about Croatia's possible entry into the euro area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58186	And at the end of the day, Katarina Peovic will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58187	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Here we can really argue by these free speeches today that more is said about everything and everything than work and work issues, more is said about the Law on Reconstruction and the quiet minuses, let's say, even though one and another problem would be less if wages were higher. Today, this assembly discusses an important law, a minimum wage, but there will be a debate on workers and workers' rights and especially on the minimum wage for most MPs. Other committees are under much stronger pressure than so-called. interested public rather than the Committee on Labour. The laws as well as this, as will come the Labour Act, new ones announcing the ruling, and which apparently goes further on to further flexibility and labour deregulation, also unfortunately do not have enough support for those actors and do not have sufficient attention from those actors who should be interested because workers, especially workers who work for the minimumer, do not protect or defend themselves for their rights. That's why we here today have a minimum wage law that could be called a pay law less than minimum because it's absurd that a law that wants to regulate that can't work for a salary less than minimum actually makes exceptions to that rule that will only legally work for a wage less than minimum. So what I have highlighted in the debate and what needs to be answered because it is too easy for the rulings, there is not enough reference by the opposition to carry out systematic statistical manipulation by the HDZ on average salary, on the share of minimum wages in average salary, on employment growth, mainly on statistical manipulations that have nothing to do with reality at all, and of course people who live poorly see it as a statistical manipulation, but not enough here to explain why it is. Generally, therefore, much more should be talked about. So I warned this morning that it was important to oppose these laws, but I didn't say one important thing, and that's what people will probably have in mind when they even hear these criticisms that are useful, which is that neither this minimum wage law is correct for workers who work for minimum wage, they're going to ask that question well, but where did we, we don't have money, we don't have the opportunity to invest in higher minimum wages. But this is the same second HDZ prank to be opposed. Why? Because what the Minimum Salary Act will be, as will the Labour Act, as well as many other laws, are now working to train workers to work for less, to work for less wages, and there is competitiveness, what HDZ does all the time, wants to achieve by reducing labour costs, by reducing wages, by reducing them, by increasing the pressure on labour force, not by therefore investing in productivity, therefore in research and development of new technologies, into industrial policies, into re-industrisation and expanding complex forms of work. So we actually here and in this law as well as in other laws see what HDZ master's plan is for this country, which is so-called. internal devaluation where only work is done to push labour and to achieve competitiveness so that it is done means more hours for less wages and that in labour intensive industries. And here we have exactly the law and the proposal to amend and supplement the minimum wage law where that is confirmed. So even in those labour-intensive industries, it is also wanted to enable workers to work for a salary less than minimum, simply justifying themselves, because legislators justify that we can't do it differently. I'd just like to add that it's not enough to stress that there are huge manipulations and with that minimum wage and now here we have definitions of minimum wages that could end this, but no, it doesn't seem like it's going to be because it's simply not defined. So, what goes into minimum wage is not defined by this law, it should be defined that the minimum wage is the basic salary so that it is not included in these additions means working on holidays, Sundays, nights work, shift work, etc. what happens in practice, so we saw that in Saponia, wages are manipulated and workers are cut off because they are misapplying that percentage The change and overtime only goes to the base and coefficient multiple, and the constant supplement is added as a fixed category. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] That's the case with a lot of companies, and that's what's gonna have to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58832	Honorable MPs and respected MPs good morning. We continue to work towards the announced agenda. First item, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on minimum wage, first reading, P.Z. No. 170. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the bill. With us is the respected minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58833	Dear President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs, we have seen intensive developments in the labour market for the past few years, changes due to digitisation, rapid labour fluctuations, robotics and new forms of work pose a challenge both for workers and for employers and for legislators. In addition, the appearance of the Covid-19 pandemic during 2020, which continued throughout the current section of 2021. It further disrupted labour market relations. Despite the exceptional circumstances, the number of insurance companies was higher by 50 and a half thousand at the end of August 2020 and the number of insurance companies compared to 2019. It was bigger by 9,000. However, all these circumstances have crystallised the need to pay further attention to the field of work, and with the implementation of measures to preserve jobs, access is made to improving legal regulations governing legal relations. Some jobs represent low wages, and most often these are jobs of simpler complexity and lower levels of education. Workers performing such tasks are a particularly sensitive group on the labour market and it is the task of the state to find a way to protect them by not violating the competition laws. This primarily serves as a minimum wage institute as a social protection instrument for the overall social and economic policy in the Republic of Croatia. After the first Minimum Payment Act of 2013 in the Republic of Croatia prescribed that the level of minimum wage is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Labour, the minimum wage system has been several times upgraded with the aim of ensuring better protection and greater rights for the most vulnerable groups of workers. They were first amended and supplemented by the previous Minimum Payment Act of 2017. from the amount of minimum wages excluded from the increases to the worker for overtime, night work and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day for which it is designated not to work. In addition, for the purpose of more precise arrangement of the minimum wage system on 1 January 2019. A new minimum wage law has entered into force. If we only observe the movement of gross minimum wage, at the end of 2013. It was 2.984 kuna and 78 limes, and 2016. 3.120 kuna. This means that in the term of the previous government, gross minimum wage grew only 4.5% and 135.22 kuna respectively. On the other hand, in the government's term of office, gross minimum wage totaled from € 3.120 to € 4.250 in 2021, which is an increase of €1.130. The net amount of the minimum wage observed during that period of 2,496 kuna reached 3,400 kuna and was increased by 904 kuna. 36.22%. Also, the share of the minimum salary in the government's gross salary for the government's mandate from the initial 38% in 2021. It reached 46.29% of gross salary. Let me also mention the continued growth of the average net salary. Thus, in June this year, it amounted to 7175 kuna, and that amount is approaching the government's 2024 programme. announced an average net salary growth of 7600 kuna. At 5. From June 2016 to June 2021, the net average salary increased by 1.489 kuna. Although the growth in minimum wage is evident and the new law is more precise and advanced than previously in practical application has shown certain shortcomings that need to be addressed further. The objective is to prevent abuses in areas which are not or are not sufficiently regulated and to ensure the consumption of the minimum wage right as agreed by an extended collective agreement. The papers proposed are the result of an analysis of the situation in the area of minimum wages and agreements with the social partners. In this regard, among other things, there has been a lack of control over the payment by collective contract of contracted minimum salaries, as well as minimal increases for overtime and night work, and for working on Sundays, holidays or other days for which the law defines that they are not working. The proposed newspapers shall include an extension of the minimum wage definition and to one contracted as such by a collective agreement extended by a decision of the Minister responsible for Labour. The introduction of a minimum wage obligation in gross amounts of the right to pay a minimum wage, the exemption of salary increases due to the reduced working conditions of the minimum wage, the possibility of contracting a minimum salary for the monthly fund hours of changes related to the matter of minimum wage increases for overtime and night work, and of working on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that no such extension is being carried out, extended the possibility of determining the criminal liability. All mentioned in this Bill proposal, which is set before you, will contribute to strengthening the legal certainty of the right to minimum wage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58834	Thank you, Minister. Let's go with the replicas. The first one's next, dear colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58835	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The minimum wage should be the socio-economic protection instrument for maintaining the existence minimum. Regulation of the 21st century. the amount determined at 4,2050 gross. Are you informed, is there still a clear law of employers who, as in recent times, pay the worker minimum wage in gross amount, and the rest of the agreements in hand, thus showing insensitiveness for both workers and the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58836	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58837	Thank you for asking. So if we look at the number, or the structure of all those recipients of the minimum wage, we can see that it is in that continuing decline, except for the last few months when there is a slight increase, however, these are some trending indicators. What you're apostrophe to, so it's more about undeclared work itself. We are currently in the phase of action, creating an action plan to combat undeclared work that we will define over the next year, so that we will also bring all legal and other procedures through which we will control the way, that is, the type of work, and also in this bill we have further strengthened the State Inspectorate and the Tax Administration, so that we can better control all those recipients of minimum wages, but also other employees to simply suppress this mode of work, or, in the long term, to completely eradicate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58838	Now it's time for my colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58839	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's clear that these legal changes are here, you're trying to change. However, are you aware that you still have a lot of work to do and that actually in the Republic of Croatia many workers still have not actually solved all their problems? Not only about inadequately paid overtime, night work, work on holidays, Sundays, etc., but there are problems, I have talked to a number of citizens where you have employers you can't really do anything, who don't give off days, don't pay this, overtime, take a vacation, count under holiday, workers don't have a week's vacation, so I'm curious when you're going to make the necessary legal changes so that all these problems that I've mentioned, and many others finally solve themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58840	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58841	Thank you, Your Honor. So these problems that you have listed in practice are very likely to occur in some places, but he, their matter, their solving and ultimately, and sanctions for non-compliance are defined, first of all, by the Labour Act. The Labour Act this part of which you have now pollemized covers relatively well, however, we are aware that there exist in the practice of certain shortcomings. Of course, the State Inspectorate, in whose jurisdiction, among other things, the Labour and Labour Inspectorate, together with the Tax Administration, controls these phenomena and, above all, what we can monitor in the data itself, these phenomena are being reduced and suppressed and I say, I hope that through all other legislative acts and through the new Labour Act and through the law on the repression of undeclared work, we will completely eradicate this behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58842	Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58843	Good afternoon. I'm going to leave out a series of what I'm going to say in an individual debate and in the name of the club on manipulations of statistics that you keep repeating about growth and wages and minimum wages and the increase of the number of insurance companies in relation to actually other numbers that should be taken into account, but here I'm going to ask you specifically, so with this Law, well, we have a transition to calculating minimum wages in gross amounts, which we can also welcome, but there is a serious problem of anti-constitutional articles that already existed in the previous minimum wage law, which is now being further strengthened by Article. 5th century 3 where, in addition to that, collective bargaining allows the minimum wage to be reduced to 95% minimum wage, the minimum wage is added to the possibility of dividing the fund hours in labour-intensive industries and that the monthly minimum wage is paid to workers working in the most difficult industries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58844	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58845	I thank you for the question of honourable MPs. So I'm glad that you welcome the arrangement in a way that deals with minimum gross wages and I'm glad that we've obviously achieved some positive effects here that you've also welcomed. On the other hand, the part relating to the redistribution or monthly fund of hours by minimum wage, therefore it was created on the basis of the insistence of both trade unions and employers, above all in the processing industry which is most exposed to the minimum wage segment, and on the other hand, we cannot talk about that there is no protection of workers, since when... So when we get to the average of the whole year, you can't pay a salary at the monthly level that's lower than minimum wage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the argument that in that case, it's not a protected worker just doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58846	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58847	I thank the President of HS, the Honorable Minister, here, we see that the minimum wage from 2016 to 2021 is growing and that's okay and that's good. But we don't see a price growth index here. So does this minimum, minimum wage growth follow the growth of the consumer basket? That's one thing. And the second question, can overtime also be agreed by the government, rather than being the subject of union negotiations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58848	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58849	So now I have to admit that I don't have an inflation index on me this in the last 5 years, but I'm not sure that the inflation index, the inflation movement in the last 5 years, is lower than the minimum wage, which means that in this case, personal consumption as a GDP aggregate in that segment of people who are on minimum pay is increasing. On the other hand about this second part of your emergency issue at first there I'll be perfectly honest was to define certain, certain increases through the law itself for the days when it's not working in the week and to determine it in a certain percentage. However, given that both trade unions and employers are involved in this process, that both trade unions and employers agreed that this would mean the discrimination of collective bargaining, we left a certain transitional period in which we want to strengthen collective negotiations and that trade unions and employers themselves agree on how much these increases will be through extended collective agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58850	Here's my colleague Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58851	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, one question, and I'm going to ask you a comment. The question is do you know how many employees in Croatia are currently receiving minimum monthly salary, do you have that information? And please comment on this fact. A minimum monthly consumer basket for a single household is located somewhere in various surveys between 7.5 and 8,000 kuna, and one that would meet normal needs is moving about 10,000. Therefore, Croatian households lack a third of the income per month for those receiving minimum wage. Does this mean that Croatia becomes a stock dump and that import goods lower quality before the expiry date? How do you comment on the fact that we're becoming a dump for bad and unquality goods, primarily of course, food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58852	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58853	Thanks for asking. That Croatia is becoming a dump is already about a little outside the box to say, so no matter what dump it was, and whether it becomes a deposit for imported cheap food before the expiry date I will try not to comment. As for the first part of your question right now, a little less than 52,000 recipients is a minimum wage. The moment we started doing the first analysis two years ago, what we were doing at the Ministry of Labour at the time I ran it myself, or while I was running the Ministry of Labour was more than 70,000. So we have a trending salary increase, and on the other hand the decline in the number of recipients of minimum wage, and that is, it's actually two positive trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58854	Now it's my friend Buric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58855	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Aladraovic, in the past 5 years in the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, paid minimally as you yourself pointed out in gross amounts, grew by 1,130 kuna net for 904 kuna, it should be noted that we have never had such a significant increase. The comparisons due to the minimum wage throughout the SDP's mandate have increased by as much as 179 kuna in 2015 by only 0.4%, with the number and letter only 11 and 94 June. Since it is approaching 31.10, when, in fact, a new decision is needed to increase the minimum wage, I am interested in how negotiations go, consultations with trade union partners and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58856	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58857	Thank you, counselor, for your question. So this factographic data that you've presented doesn't have to comment, so it just shows trends in which the minimum wage is moving. Of course, by 31.10. it is until the deadline to be defined for next year to prepare employers. I'm sure she'll continue in similar trends in the next period. The current committee for the development of the minimum, minimum wage levels still analyses all available data. I must point out that this commission also includes workers' representatives, employers' representatives, academic community, representatives of the state administration's body and, as a rule, solutions that were optimal for all. I'm sure that's how it'll continue in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58858	Let's move on, colleague Jelkovac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58859	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers of this proposal is certain that it is important that the way the salary is increased based on overtime and work on holidays and work on Sundays, but we know that so far there has been a lot of disrespect for the provisions on payment and overtime and working on holidays and work on Sundays by employers that they have asked how we like to say it and the holes in the law. What is now predicted is that supervision of the implementation of these provisions is still resolved through collective agreements, however, I am interested if it turns out that it is not enough to consider and edit surveillance through the Labour Act, through breaking provisions in a stronger and stricter way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58860	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58861	Thanks for asking. At present, we have not considered this legal solution to define this part through the Labour Act, but once again, a consensus has been reached on the fact that for two years we actually let employers and trade unions try to increase the number of collective agreements, expand parts of collective agreements, and if we fail to get a larger mass of employees that will be covered and then we will actually be open to all other legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58862	Now will be replicated by counterpart Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58863	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Aladrovic means today's amendments and the addition of the law are certainly something to be welcomed as it will lead to a raise in minimum wages in such a way that the corresponding increases will be accounted for on the salary as well as all those additions from the Labour Act. It is also commendable that the share of gross, minimum gross earnings in the average gross salary in the last 6 years has increased from 38% to 46.3%. But what is equally evident and worrying is that this disproportionate amount of average salary in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. When we look around the county, the disproportionateness is highlighted, let's say, the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is about 9.5 thousand, in Zagreb it is 11.5 thousand, while in Licko-Senjska about 8 400 and it is visible that one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia certainly needs be a balanced regional development of all parts [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58864	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58865	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. So, as far as alone and minimum wages are concerned, but also the movements of all other levels, or the height of wages, it is not at this moment the most balanced throughout the Republic of Croatia, however, there is a certain convergence that has been happening in the last few years and under these data what the minimum salary does, it is some kind of basic social and economic protection mechanism and thus protects this lower limit, regardless of the territory where the employee who received such pay was located. And as far as the stakes are concerned, as a rule, 2 data are seen, these are shares in.../incomprehensible/... share in the average salary and share of.../incomprehensible/... minimum wages in the media pay, we have positive growth trends here. This is where we got really close to some European, European average, but we still have room for a step, I'm sure we'll use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58866	Now a fellow Zurovec will be replicated, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58867	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'd just like to ask you, did you maybe communicate with the Minister of Finance that the untaxable part, meaning all salaries, especially these smallest ones, rise to the border of 7.5 thousand kuna? By the way, this law, it's clean here, and you may have information, it's not gonna be a minimum wage that's gonna stop people from hiring, that's for sure. Maybe even that will increase, so the team, that protection means those as the most endangered of us in principle, and we're pushing them to the Stock Exchange. A few years ago, I think we had 70s and a few thousand people who were receiving a minimum, and I think now that's about 50 grand. Also, the average within the union members, within the EU, is about 60% of the median wage target per minimum. We're already close, about 78%. So, maybe we'll get, eventually, and the effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58868	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58869	Your Honor, I thank you for the question, your data is not correct until the end because we are approaching 60% of the media salary, so regardless of which, regardless of the trends they have been making in other Member States, about always these two percentages that I have highlighted in the previous question are important. This reduction in the number of recipients of minimum wage did not result from their going to the labour market but was due to the fact that the salaries were raised more intensively than the minimum wage threshold was raised, so that most, not all of them, of course, these employees, or workers, the recipients of minimum wages are actually now recipients of a slightly higher salary. Of course, any raise of minimum wages makes certain contributions within the harmonisation of wages within each employer and this is a challenge with which certain sectors, above all, processing industries struggle when there is an administrative increase in wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58870	Now she's going to speak to her colleague, Mr. Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58871	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. The difference between reality and paper is sometimes quite large. What we had the opportunity to see in an explanation, or hear in an explanation, is often reminds me, you know, of the chronicler of time. That means, to realize that we still have employers who don't pay,.../incomprehensible/... don't pay minimum wage, that we have trouble paying for overtime, for working on Sundays is something that can be determined, but something that must also be seen in an explanation of what shift and what progress we have made. We now have an inspectorate who has certain, certain possibilities and can do something. So, what I'm interested in, I'm not interested in being answered what you're going to or how you're going to be in the future. I'd like you to answer me what shift was made in your term of office, what was done? How much was made to make it less? What did you do on that plan because it can only be then an indicator of what will be in the future? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58872	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58873	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Well, that's exactly what I've already answered through a few questions. Therefore, the established strategy to combat undeclared work, the action plan in the building and the law on undeclared work will be adopted in the next period in HS, it will definitely increase the ability to combat such work, very actively in fact at practically weekly and monthly level, both with trade unions and employers. In this Act, we have installed certain infringement provisions that give the IRS and the State Inspectorate the right to sanction these types of work and behaviour of employers in certain cases and therefore all of these steps appear to be. There will be even more in the future, we can certainly see that in the end, from the government's work plan, but also from the legislative plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58874	Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58875	Dear Ministers, a figure of about 50,000 people who receive minimum wage has been mentioned here, however, it is not said that there are hundreds of thousands of people who receive only several hundred kunas more than minimum wage. I'm going to point out one example that mailman, who delivers mail to all of us, has just a slightly higher salary. Just a little higher pay, only a few hundred kunas more than minimum wage. Nobody's talking about them. But what's the measure of this whole story, is it a thousand, excuse me, 3400 kuna online, for example. Enough to survive a month, if we consider, e.g. The rent of an apartment in Zagreb of 1500 kuna, which is actually a cave in Zagreb, is not an apartment, if we take that person to be a parent and have children, can also be a single parent. Is 3400 kuna enough or not? These people are actually virtuoses of survival. Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58876	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58877	I thank you for asking. Yeah, that's why we use the media pay and we use it as some kind of relevant factor because it includes all those at the bottom of the pay average. And as I have noted, we are aware that there are certain challenges in the context of reduced harmonisation of wages when there is an administrative increase in minimum wage, whether it is enough or not, it is a subjective impression of all of us, but what trends can show is that the constant increase in the minimum wage itself. So that's what you can do at this point. We need to be aware of the other side and the negative effect of administrative increase, which is that in those industries that are labour intensive, in which labour costs are extremely high, there is a discrepancy in the very economic competitiveness of these companies and that too much minimum wages can also have negative economic consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58878	A colleague, Zekanovic, asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58879	Dear President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. Namely, it is here in a comment by the respected minister, he said the subjective impression that 3,400 kunas are enough for some, and some are not. So, from our optics as you would actually say, and the Prime Minister 3,400 kuna is not enough to survive, from your optics, from the optics of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is enough. I would like you to at least say it, to be, to climb the ashes and say from 3,400 kuna how much the net minimum wage cannot live in Croatia. I will not say that you are a miracle worker and that you can change things with a magic wand today, but it is very important that you at one point speak the truth and say 3,400 kunas and something more, and it is hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens, I have mentioned, for example. Croatian mailmen do not have 200, there are several thousand who work hard every day and deliver mail, have only several hundred kunas of higher salary. And that's what's important, that's the measure and that's what needs to be solved, and that's your job, you've taken over that portfolio, and with these increases you've made that problem hasn't been solved. The one who pays $3,400 a day to him is 10 or 20 kuna per day to survive, when he pays the rent of the apartment, when he pays the directors, so he simply cannot survive with that money and you must make it clear and loud from that pay phone to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58880	I'll see you in 11 minutes, and if you'll excuse my colleague, Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58881	I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF Club so that we can go through this law again and actually maybe even listen to what you just said here on several occasions, which is dangerous and brutal manipulations that need to be dealt with. First of all, you're talking all the time about a huge salary increase, a huge increase in minimum wage. When we talk about such an increase, we must be aware that, without the intention of praising or defending the period of SDP rule, we have a parallel situation in which we are now in a particular conukture that you have only marginally mentioned what is crucial that we are talking really about an increase. But what kind of pay increase are we talking about? Let's face it, it's a minimum wage. The minimum wage in Croatia satisfies, listen to this, 25% of the basic needs of workers and their families. So the minimum wage is anti-constitutional, so she's not able to meet the basic needs of people, the basic needs of workers, and we're talking about some huge increase in minimum wage because we're starting from scratch. Well Zimbabwe has a huge growth, so we can't look at statistics that way. The second thing, you're talking about the percentage of minimum wage in average salary. What does 46% mean? Of which 46%? From nothing. So the average salary is 7,000 kuna, the median is about 6,000 kuna, these are the salaries that should be minimum wages and then from that means we should talk about some increase. If not only should the minimum wage be the average wage, the average salary should be the minimum wage but even the estimated 10,400 kuna should be the minimum wage. So that's what we're talking about. Not to mention the increase in staff, which I will especially discuss in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58882	Thank you very much. Okay. We have another request for a break. Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58883	Thank you, Honorable President HS, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm also looking for a break. What's a fact and what's irrefutable is that the minimum wage in the last 5 years. at the time of Prime Minister Plenkovic's term of office, he grew by 1.130 kuna and 904 kuna in net amount, respectively. The minimum wage today is 4.250 kuna and 3,400 kuna, respectively, in net amount, and never, ever, have such increases been recorded. In addition, despite the pandemic and in spite of everything else that has hit us, not only have we significantly increased the minimum wage, that it has been significantly increased, the average wage has increased and this is growing steadily. Pensions are also constantly growing, especially those of the lowest pensions. You've made it very clear that today 6000 are more employees than in old normal 2019. and none of this came in itself, and besides, I find it not a good comparison, which we just had opportunities to hear from the opposition, one minimum salary with a four-member or four-member basket cost for a four-member family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58884	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Peovic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58885	Yeah, I have to react, so it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's said here is false, so we can't speak Article 238, we can't talk in such a casual way about the increase in minimum wages and wages in general because you don't take into account global trends. So you can't talk about the increase if you don't consider that it's been a pandemic year, you can't take into account, you can't talk about the increase if you don't consider that we're from before the pandemic. being in a certain conjuncture, so it's completely made up. [[The incursion of the president: Fellows Peović timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58886	You get a warning from your colleagues, Peovic. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to respect your time, so you're getting one warning. A fellow Dretar is also a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58887	Thank you very much. After hearing such arguments on behalf of the MPs of the Cuban movement, I am looking for a break, we will need a little more, an hour nice please, because after hearing such fascinating arguments in our rooms at the club we will set up a picture of the current prime minister and it will take us some time to organize a little gift sacrifice to give him tens of thousands of people who have minimum salaries in Croatia thanks for the well-being he has provided us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58888	Okay. Do we have any more requests? No, then we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 20 minutes. MEETING AT 10:10 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:20 A.M.]] Now it's time for a respected colleague, Dalia Oreshkovic. She's gone. Could they possibly be anywhere near her? Let's see if there's any trouble. Here's two minutes we've given more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58890	I thank the president. The Honorable Ministers. The basic lack of this bill is an institutional framework for its implementation and therefore this bill as well as a number of others that are referred to by the Government in fact a kind of semi-product. In fact, Croatia is also a social state under the Constitution, so this minimum wage institute really needs to be provided in a way that is dignified and that has this one social protection character. However, without ensuring implementation that cannot rely on what you said about supervision that will be carried out through collective bargaining and social dialogue, as noted by a colleague from your ranks, so it is all a vain business. It looks like a pamphlet, like a paper that's literally worth so much that it might clean windows. You didn't empower the institutions, you only changed the article. The 9th law that you have defined who does what, but you have not given stronger authority to implement and ensure that the provisions of this law are respected in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58891	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58892	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs for asking. It is not true and it is not true that we did not strengthen the institutions because if you read the previous text of the law or the past law and read this text of the law one part of what was outside institutionally was not possible to verify at all, it was not possible to exercise control, now it is an integral part of this law. As regards the law itself, he does not define the amount, so he does not define neither today nor has defined the amount of the minimum wage earlier than that amount, which you are apostrophetically a part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, which is passed every year until the end of October for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58893	She's about to be replicated by her colleague, Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58894	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister. As you have said, the proposed paper is the result of an analysis of the situation and these changes are valuable, as are all the government's efforts to protect workers especially in the private sector. Do you consider how to protect workers in construction companies who operate in tourist municipalities and cities and who have recently been banned from performing construction works 3, 4 and even 5 months? Since they cannot operate in other areas but only locally, and as we try to keep the tourist season ever longer, these municipalities and cities make decisions that prohibit construction work, it was usually from 15 June to 15 September, and now it is already from 1 May to 1 October.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58895	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58896	Honorable MPs. Thanks for asking. So, it's not in full correlation with this bill with this part that defines only execution, but one part of that redistribution of working time that can be done through time, so now it's possible through the law to work on that monthly accounting method that will cover a part of these workers. What we are looking forward to from the data, and you mentioned the construction sector, in fact, we have a very low share there, i.e. a very low share of the minimum wage due to price increases, price increases in services, but also positive economic developments in the construction sector itself. So one sector that has been exposed to minimum wages in the past is no longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58897	Now she will speak to a respected colleague of Rauhar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58898	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. I would say that your mission is not to promote the government, but to fight and care for the public good. In that sense, it would be a little polite to be more careful with your praises and praises in a situation where the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, as you certainly know at the bottom of the EU scale, is only Hungary, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria. I hope by 31.10, you will find a way to raise that minimum wage to something we could call a decent salary. But my question is different. I am interested and we know that the amount of minimum wage is regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I am interested in why no clear criteria are mentioned in the law to determine the level of minimum wage, I think that would give additional certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58899	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58900	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. So the criteria as a criterion are therefore defined through the Commission to determine the amount of minimum wage. I have already noted, the academic community, workers' representatives, employers' representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are involved in this commission. And we can see that in the last few years, so we're going towards convergence, we're going towards an increase, a significant increase in minimum wage. I am not sure what criteria such an administrative increase would be possible to meet, so this way in which we assess economic strength and assess the economic power of certain sectors that are exposed to minimum wages each year separately at academic level, at the level of employers and trade unions, we still consider the best possible model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58901	And the last replica, Comrade Nadia, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58902	I thank President HS. Dear Minister, I can't believe you're actually boasting about the increase in the minimum wage of 2,496 kuna to 3,400 kuna. Croatia is also a social state under the constitution. So these 52,000 Croatian workers can't have any social security. What will the government actually do to make them have a decent life? You didn't say anything in the opening statement. This is not just a social problem, it's a demographic problem, these people are gonna go out and make their pay there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58903	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58904	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So as far as the social and economic institute itself is concerned, at the end of the day, we have a few times apostrophe, in fact everyone has apostropheeded in the debate, and it is not social and economic, but once again I have to point out. Therefore, aware of the restrictions in the implementation itself, i.e. in the very increase in minimum wages, what seems to be every year, which seems to be from the period during which that height is determined, and what makes the Government of the Republic of Croatia is precisely to assess the economic balance between the preservation of these jobs and the other side of the salary. Whether this issue is sufficiently high-qualityly arranged from the very increase in therefore and the social status of all recipients of minimum wage, it is a subject that can also be a topic of broader debate, but trends clearly show that the biggest increase was in the mandate of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and we will continue with this trend. This is what we are committed to in the government and party programme, and in the next period we will only further apostrophe in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58905	I thank the Minister, you can return to your post. I call on the committee's rapporteurs to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, whose name will be spoken by respected colleague Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58906	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We've already seen from these replicas and the opening statement that we have before us a debate that will have more elements, so I'm going to be in this debate as much as I do, and if I don't get there, I'm going to continue to look at what I think is extremely important when we talk about minimum wage, and that's three elements. Of course, first of all, it's about the level of minimum wage and where we stand in this club, in this society where we are, and this club and this society and that community are called the EU. Then the structure of workers working for minimum wage, which is extremely important and opens not only social but also as some colleagues have noticed demographic issues and finally third, which is last but definitely not least important but perhaps most important, and this is the problem of poverty among employees and the notion of fair pay. So people who are employed, who are working, they contribute to society and definitely shouldn't be at risk of poverty, but unfortunately that's not the case and it's still present somewhere more somewhere less, unfortunately for us it's not negligible. Of course, when we talk about minimum wage, we must also take care of employers, the competitiveness of our economy, and the question is always how to reconcile those two sides, we would say to our people whether to be both a wolf and all sheep in number. But I can't agree with the fact that we can only be competitive if we have low wages because it's long-term not sustainable, there will always be someone in the world who will work for a lower salary. Therefore, how to reconcile our competitiveness in the market and satisfy employers, on the other hand, that workers work for the wages that are suitable, which are just, just and fair. Of course, this again opens up the issue and the structures of our economy and these structural reforms that economists have advocated since the 1970s, we're still waiting for them, unfortunately, but here we'll see they've promised us through a whole series of reforms, so we'll see if any of that happens or remains a dead letter on paper. What this proposal seeks to amend and supplement the law is in some way to satisfy both sides in this humble part that is now changing here, and in this context it is necessary to look at this Article 2 of the Law, which regulates pay increases, which refers to overtime, night work, work on Sundays and holidays, and the difficult working conditions, and on the other hand the minimum wage of workers working in part-time and there is somehow trying to satisfy both sides. As far as it's going to end, I don't think it's going to be, I think it's going to be hard because it's going to be hard for workers to satisfy this general definition of overtime, night work, etc. That I'm not counting now because the employer can define it in a way that it's going to be an increase for let's say here I'm going to caricate 10 kunas a little bit, so he's fulfilled that condition, but if that's enough, of course it's not. Can it please the employees, of course it can't. What you might need, and that's my opinion, is that the law prescribes what an increase means for each of these categories in order to bring order into that area. The text also mentions the principle of a number of 6 European pillars of social rights, which discusses fair wages with which to live with dignity. We have already heard here in replicas that not only minimum wage but also other salaries in some other activities are difficult to enable our people to live a decent life and perhaps for some single, single household and yes, but where we have a family with one or two children, where only one parent is employed it is really impossible, let's be realistic with this level we currently have. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also says in Article 56, each employee has the right to earn money that can guarantee their own and their families a free and decent life. So these are not just European documents our Constitution, numerous laws are also guaranteeing employees a decent life, fair compensation, fair compensation for work that they do but unfortunately in reality, it is not so because minimum wage should satisfy the basic needs of workers, their families and reduce poverty. But 3,400 nets can hardly be enough for a decent life in Croatia, especially after this wave of gatherings that we have witnessed in these past few months. So it's already announced that the 20% gas collection is already announced because the world market price has gone enormously, most likely since 1.4 next year when the gas price changes, but also the purchases of food products. Let us not forget that in our consumer basket they have gone 10% she has collected in the last few months, and household spending for food products in Croatia is 30 % high, which is extremely high compared to others, to other EU Member States. The fact is that the share of minimum wages in average salary has increased from some 38 meals to 46% in the last 5 years, but when you translate it, it's still not the 50% that unions and numerous associations are asking for, and when you look at the absolute amount, it's still less than 1,000 kuna when we look at the net amount. The number of people who receive and work for minimum wage increases. At the end of last year, it was 46,000, and in the first quarter of this year it was 52,000 workers. This is a high figure let's not fool ourselves and let's see where we are, so when we look at the EU average, which is about EUR 700 minimum wage, we are at EUR 563. This is better than Bulgaria, which has EUR 332, far from what is in Luxembourg from EUR 2,02, but it is far below and what is in our neighbourhood in Slovenia where the minimum salary of EUR 1,024 is. I'm just going to name Ireland and Germany because these are the countries that our people in Ireland are most emigrated to is EUR 1,724, in Germany 1,600. What is not bad with this proposal, but the question of how much will be implemented is the fact that it gives greater importance to social dialogue and collective bargaining and means collective agreements, but let us not forget that in Croatia there is a low tradition and sectoral coverage of collective agreements mainly in these activities where minimum wage is represented and where the minimum wage is paid at the most. In the structure of employees who receive minimum wage are mostly women with lower education, they are often from the field of general education and services and are often from rural areas. And that's what opens up more and more questions that have negative consequences on our demographic structure and demographic indicators that are very bad in Croatia from year to year and worse. This census we have this year will confirm it. Because my time is about to end, I'm going to continue in an individual debate because here I said I'm going to talk about three topics and I touched two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58907	We're going to another debate, it's the HSS Representatives' Club of the Workers' Front, a respected colleague, Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58908	Good afternoon, everyone. First, she would look back and try to deny what has already been said here and invented as some statistics that are always mentioned and listed as an excuse and a really totally unwarranted praise for the HDZ situation where, I think people know how they live, they don't need to talk too much about statistics, but statistics are used precisely for manipulative purposes where statistics should really use us to fix the situation. Let's go from one question to another. What's that pay, minimum pay? So the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, by 31 October at the latest, adopt a regulation on the minimum wage amount for the following year, the minimum salary shall be paid every year, and this should be noted several times in terms of the amount which is less than enough for a normal life. 2001. a minimum wage of 4.250,00 gross, 3.400,00 net is determined, which is an increase of 187.4 kuna compared to 2020. The excuse was that the pandemic year we no longer have to give, so that's a real number. It's in the Constitution. 56th determined that every employee has the right to earn money that can provide themselves and families with a free and decent life, so that the minimum wage would be a decent salary union has calculated, so the independent union has calculated, the new union has calculated that the minimum wage should be around 10,400 kuna. The objection that was here, uh, we can't count on that salary if we have two parents. No, so it is necessary to calculate how much a single parent has to pay who has two children and what these costs are, not counting, but with two parents covering the costs of two children. The minimum legal salary cannot be repeated enough here at only 25% of the dignity salary, 25% of the dignity salary means that the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is anti-constitutional. The share of minimum wages in the average, second HDZ manipulation. The HDZ manipulates statistics and constantly boasts of the wage alignment with the percentage of the average salary, so some opposition MPs here have said nice sounding here means that the share of minimum wages in average from 30 seems to me eight to 46% average, the government wants to agree with 60% of the average salary recommended by the EU. But once again, we need to ask 46% of what? 60% of what? If it's 60% of zero, then it's zero. So we don't have enough media or average pay, let alone minimal. So we have an average salary of about 7,000 kuna, and the average of everything that we understand, so the manager's salaries go in on average and they raise that average, so the media pay is something more real than 6,000 kuna, so neither. So, even when independent trade unions in Croatia were counting on the consumer basket in 2011. It was about 7,000 kuna means neither of us meet the needs, so it's not what the minimum wage should be, and what's problematic and what really statistical should be solved we don't have the calculation of basic life needs, it stopped counting. And that is why the Workers' Front has referred to the procedure and the requirement to conclude that the Government undertakes that the DZS undertakes quarterly to calculate what the basic costs of living are to be aware of what the gap between minimum wage and decent pay is. This is how I think that this kind of manipulation sounds great in statistical terms, and people live badly. What has already been said to be a Croatian salary cannot be repeated enough times, that our worker is working for 37% of the salary of a Western European worker, that we are at the beginning of the EU. There is no explanation, so it is clear why 14% of the working population has moved out. Also, statistical manipulation related to an increase in the alleged increase in the number of workers. So it's not the same increase in the number of insurance companies, which the minister repeatedly cites and increases employment. So we don't have the number of workers in Croatia, so let's say there was an increase in employment, so in the season, employment increases are numbered by an increase in the number of insurance companies, and there are also foreign workers who, by liberalising the Foreign Law, have fully liberalised foreign labour imports and have liberalised quotas so that we count them as well. So, full manipulation and with the increase in insurance as an increase in employment. How many workers receive no minimum wage, it is also very important to say these figures, so the number of workers on the minimum is growing in December 2020. The share of workers receiving minimum wage was 4.22% which was slightly less than 46,000 workers while the average share of recipients of minimum wage in the first quarter was in 2021. It amounted to 4.73% means slightly more than 52,000 workers. In just a few months, the number of workers increased by 6,000, so we're really talking about people who have to survive with the Minimal, working full-time. Moreover, even the legislator notes, many who are on the minimal are being stolen, so they also steal from the church they receive in the form of minimum wages, so the State Inspectorate warns of a significant number of infringements committed due to the failure to pay the minimum wage to workers. And now what do we have here? Now here comes the Law on Minimum Payment of Amendments and the addition of the law which, in addition to some formal proposals, which I have commended, means that minimum wage is expressed in gross amount, but there will be wages raised by some 50 kunas or, say, consent, and it is said that workers should not be asked to sign consent to do less than minimum wagers, but what does this minimum wage law do now? So he's such an illegal act that a worker signs one such, one such document simply allows by law, and this should not be called a minimum wage law at all, but a minimum wage law, because this law allows, therefore something that was already allowed in the previous law to be extended, so if a collective contract negotiates that the pay is less than minimum, it can be 95% minimum, that is, that's the art. 8. which should be completely evicted, which is counter-constitutional because other than the minimum wage does not meet the basic needs of 95% and minimum wages at all, it certainly will not meet these needs, so this should be abolished, now a new provision is added. Now it's not, it's not enough that workers can by collective agreement give up that 5% and minimum wage, and now we're going to bring a new provision into Article. 5. these amendments to section 3. which states by collective agreement, minimum wage can be agreed in a way that the minimum salary for an entire year is divided by an annual fund of hours, and the minimum wage is calculated and paid in accordance with the minimum salary per hour and monthly fund of hours, and that is said nicely and in an explanation, mainly refers to the labour intensive industry, the food industry, where people actually work for the church from morning to evening, and there will be allowed to divide what, therefore, the fund hours and then account in some months and pay less than minimum. Well, then perhaps the employer would have had the opportunity to take a season's salary in those months, so fire him when there's another part of the year where he has to pay a higher salary. Now, the minister here tells me that it's all right, that there's no problem here because it came to the insistence of unions and employers saying, and he further says that when the wages that will be paid in some months will be less than minimum we can't talk about cutting and unprotecting workers. I'd like that month when that worker gets less pay than the minimum wage the minister comes and tells him but we can't talk about unprotection, because you don't have for it, it's all legally arranged and there's no unprotection of workers because next month you're going to get more money, so you're going to eat more, right? So the minimum wage, we will repeat once again, is prescribed as a monthly amount, followed by which the employer must not pay less than the prescribed amount independently of this provision and this provision should really be abolished and removed from the law. In an individual debate, I'm going to say one more thing about what the debate looked like on the Labour Committee so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58909	Thank you. The third club of representatives is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, will be spoken by a respected colleague of Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58910	Thank you, well-respected President HS, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I'm kind of going to start in this debate on behalf of the club from the beginning. The legislation prescribed minimum wage is an instrument that most EU Member States know, 21 of the 27 member states have some form of a minimum wage law. One geographically large political exception is the Nordic states which have no legal minimum wage but a system of collective agreements directly negotiated by trade unions and employers without State interference. It's something that so in the future, little Ivica imagines or little Ivica is me that it should be, but unfortunately about that level of union functioning as well as sectoral employers' associations and we here, and most of the world can only dream, so there's nothing left for us but this well-known model of regulated minimum wages. In doing so, I must say that this law system of legally regulated minimum salaries also has some large and free economies outside the EU such as. The United Kingdom or the United States. In the introduction of the bill's proposal, it is stated, as already mentioned several times, that Croatia has been mentioned in the last 5 years. progressed according to the minimum wage rate on average, with 38% we came to over 46%. And according to that criterion, we are somewhere in the middle of the EU, not among the best of Slovenia, but we see no wonders nor among the worst, of course if the minimum wage in Croatia is compared to other EU members to another criterion, which is the criterion of purchasing power, that is the criterion that is for comparison then unfortunately we are again among those worst EU students. The minimum wage is being broken and there is no single view or answer to what its real effects on the economy are. What most scientists and analysts agree is that if the minimum wage criteria are set too high that this can lead to a drop in employment, especially workers who are less paid at the beginning due to lack of qualifications or education. In other words, it means that low-profit industries with low-value jobs are at risk, and then we come back to that old pain of the Croatian economy, too much of that kind of industry and business in total. The transition through which Europe and the whole of Europe is waiting through the European Green Plan should also be an opportunity for our country to make or replace such low-profit activities more profitable. But let us return to this specific proposal. Croatia still has a high share that workers who receive minimum wage and a very high number of those whose salary is not paid as a consequence, and it is clear to everyone and in reason we already have a few opportunities to hear it. And I really feel like as the Ministry of Time chronicles and says that laws are being broken and that there are different abuses. What we've done all this time to make laws, there will always be those who break, but to reduce it and reduce abuses to the least possible measure. This proposal states that the special problem is working on Sundays and holidays and overtime and nights. I have to make it clear to me that we are not able to regulate these types of work and make clear legal obligations and then monitor the implementation of these obligations when it comes to paying for work on Sundays or overtime. The local elections are over, so here's the need for HDZ to hand in to the church, and again the debate on the ban on Sunday's trade until next time. But the fact remains that the first and the basic part of solving this problem is also an important part of the issue that is trying to sort out the minimum wage system just to arrange the payment of workers for overtime, night and weekend work and holidays. This minimum wage proposal is exempt, with this proposal and the part to be paid for due to difficult working conditions, which is fine, and we hope that it will allow a little more income for workers to be fully clearly working under such conditions. Of course, again, we have that note of possible abuses, fraud of workers, that the state must be able to control and prevent its tools. To us, it's tools, it's measures, it's something that the state does, to reduce abuses and frauds of workers. What is good in this law and seems to me in the interest of both workers and employers is the employer's ability to negotiate minimum wages for the monthly fund of hours. Here again, we must stress what the legislator in his proposal has stated, and that is that we always have that difference between what is written on paper and real life, and that there really is an inspection and all the other authorities have to do their part of the job seriously. This law therefore introduces some newspaper with which this, which we think is good, which is that it must be agreed in gross amount, that the definition is extended to a minimum wage determined by a collective agreement, is arranged to determine the minimum increase for work on Sundays, holidays etc. What is particularly interesting to me is that part of that that subsequent analysis of the effects of this law is carried out, so within 2 years so that if there are no major earthquakes of surprise still in the term of this assembly and it will have the opportunity to see what this ex post impact assessment means to see what has really been achieved and whether we have gone one step forward or perhaps as in some other cases we have done more harm than good. I'm deeply hoping this other one won't be a case, but it's possible. No law is carved into stone. Every time those in charge of law enforcement need to follow it and when they see that the law has caused any disturbance or if they see that the law is a dead letter on paper, it stands in some or sits in some drawers, and there's not much of it there, it needs to be complemented and changed. What is the answer to minimum wage and as a general social measure, minimum wage is not the best instrument because the poorest people in Croatia are mostly those who do not work, unemployed, old and sick. The overall risk of poverty is about 20%, but among the employees is less than 5%. On the other hand, there is more than 40% risk among the unemployed. What minimum wage can reduce poverty and the risk of poverty among employees, and in this it should be shown to be an effective tool. On the other hand, there is always a need to keep in mind what this proposal makes clear how much the state budget will cost. The answer is nothing because the state adopts a regulation, and employers have to implement it or pay those salaries. Since it is very often low-productivity companies, we have to be very careful not to get the effect opposite of what we want. In the end, instead of minimum wage, these workers don't get fired. And finally, I'm going to repeat that and that topic that is very close to my heart. The European Green Plan is a chance that we have almost never had to transform our economy and jobs, catch a connection with the most developed, create jobs with decent salaries and seriously added value and really clearly reduce the share of people on the minimum wage and allow everyone who, to get solid incomes that the state should not provide with such measures. That's not something, and it has to be absolutely clear what an employer can do alone without the help of a state. And that is why Croatia's accession to the European Green Plan and our economic transition will be the main business of this and many governments that follow. And therefore, that desire and goal to regulate the minimumer by law becomes a rare exception will indeed be possible and possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58911	It is now up to the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, who will speak on behalf of HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58912	Dear Mr. President, esteemed representatives of the ministry, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, at first I will say that the HNS Club, HSU and independent first-readers will support this bill for the following reasons. So, we support salary increases, we support social partners' agreements, we support a minimum wage bargaining in gross amounts, we support a ban on minimum wages, we support the exemption of pay supplements from minimum wages, so they must be specifically shown and we support in part, I correct the minister's statement is not a major strengthening of legal certainty but in part strengthening legal certainty and facilitating the work of institutions. To this, these words can be added to a lot but, but, but, but. So, we are a society that, even in the past system before the 1990s, developed an elitist approach to wages unlike Western European democracies that said that the worker is a consumer, that he must have a decent life and that wages must meet the basic minimum needs of a four-member, four-member family. So, we since '95, 1995, when we left the general collective agreement, when the collective contract for public activity got one value, when the unions in the real sector said we were brave, we will negotiate ourselves and have collective agreements, activities that we don't have today, which will then expand the collective contract to the whole activity and we will raise the pay, we stagnate, especially because we have too much respect for activities with labour intensive activities and low-accumulated activities, and I'm not sure that entrepreneurs who conduct such activities have a lot of understanding for their workers rather than putting them into a slave, slave relationship. So, of course it's good that this law is in first reading. Of course I expect the social partners between the two readings to talk and some other things to improve. I hope that the ministry here is very open to suggestions and new possible solutions because, because I have to say that we are trying to discuss here and understand this law by ourselves and by steam. We can't think like that. Minimum wage brings a minimum pension. 2/3 of the salary below the average salary will end in the lowest pension at the moment is that 71.5 kuna per year of internship. In 60 years of life and 41 years of internship it is 2,931 kuna pension. It is not covered by contributions, is not covered by contributions and the state intervenes in, in the lowest pension. What does that mean? That 2,931 kuna is enough for me for 41 years of internship, whether it's a dignified pension, is not, and is already intervened by the state in that pension. Therefore, we have employees of the poor as workers who end up as poor pensioners. It's a circle that's created with a minimum minimum wage. So we have work in poverty and then we have a pension in poverty. 3,400 net is not a consumer, not even 2 salaries for a four-member family is not a big consumer, that is, that is, savings at every step. And for that reason, I think that this observation and this observation in the light of the law should have been much harder to experience than just to accept that over 1,400 cases of violations of the Minimum Salary Act have been found by labour inspectors. It's not a crime, it's not a crime, it's not a crime for me. These are the crimes of endangering someone's life, the existence of workers and families. This is a much more serious offense than it seems because if there is a minimum wage payment obligation, there is no reason for breach of the minimum wage law. Just like a man who's been dealing with this problem for many years, I'm saying there can be no less minimum wage than a contracted minimum wage. Why 95%? Why allow the payment of 95% because the social partners will agree because the union has a great understanding of the employer without, an exception can happen for 3 months, cannot be permanent, cannot be permanent. Everyone is obliged to take responsibility when the firm is in crisis, when there are difficulties to save their jobs, it is desirable and commendable to discuss work, but it cannot be permanent. It can't be that activity is bad and we'll all let it go to the lowest level. That's what people are behind. That's what people are behind. We're sinking, we're all sinking in the poverty zone together. So, I expect it won't wait 2 years, it's an agreement between the social partners and the government that social partners negotiate collective agreements that will determine the percentages of work supplements on Sundays for overtime, for work on holidays, for past work and for all gatherings that will be upgraded to minimum wage as foreseen by this law. I think it's too much tolerance for poverty and it's too long a period. Let the employers and trade unions choose to negotiate a general collective agreement on additions to minimum, on additions to, to work. So, on shift work, overtime, etc. Let them do it. Then we have covered, then they have to respect all the activities, then there's no lying. That'll be a minimum again. If something is a general collective contract as a minimum, then if someone is working after a branch collective contract or at company level, it can increase those additions. But like this, formally, we have a situation that by giving an extra of 1 kuna, we have satisfied this Law. And let's make sure there's gonna be manipulation. It's in our man's nature to get a little muddy and he'll be muddy because these 1400 cases of default tell us about the mood in that zone. So we have an untaxable amount of 4 grand's salary. We have a big bonus, but it's incomprehensible for those who receive a minimum and they'll receive a net of 3400. Now, how did the others handle it? Germany has given the Captain, the Minimal Captain and has no dilemma, it must be respected or do not exist as an activity, as an entrepreneur. For many years, Italy has built its social state on the basic needs of its employees, and they have calculated firstly, it needs the minimum needs of a four-member family, then the complexity of business to do so. Of course, they also entered into their constitution that they are a society of work, therefore, a land of work, which is very signifying. Slovenians also have a problem like us, 2/3 employees below average and then they reflect it in pensions and they decided to subsidise those activities so that they do not become a damaged worker because, our working legislation is still in the Latin and favorite labs, in favour of the weaker side, for the benefit of workers. Therefore, please, we will have to make minimum wage decisions very quickly and redefine minimum wage. This is my only sharing of experience with you and take it well-intentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58913	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Milorad Pupovac will speak for the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58914	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. These amendments to the Minimum Salary Act are one of the ways in which pay can be increased at all, and in particular minimum wages, in this case only minimum wages. The other way is, of course, higher economic growth, higher employment, greater investment. We understand that this measure is necessary because we have a labour drain, we understand that this measure is necessary because we have an increase in poverty and we understand that between the social partners what has been possible so far has been brought into line and we understand and we see that the trend in the growth of minimum salaries from year to year, and that is how it should be. As far as our Club is concerned, we welcome such a trend and welcome this reconciliation, but at the same time we want to say that it would be good for this job not to be interrupted by this Law and to create assumptions for improvement on the one hand, supervision, and on the other hand the dynamics of raising minimum wages. The supervision of the State Inspectorate's restrictions in carrying out this surveillance was unfortunately not adequate, the government itself says. And it needs to be changed. Change in a number of segments, whether it is the circumstances in which public servants and public employees, in which the index of their salaries is such as to provide them with wages below the guaranteed minimum wage. Under 3400 net wages or 4200 gross wages. Mr. Minister, I think we have a duty to do everything in that segment and in those cases, it's not one or two cases, to change that. That these indices are corrected, corrected. And that people don't stay out of the law. Someone here is talking about people who are several hundred kunas above guaranteed minimum. I'm now talking here on behalf of the club about people who remain uninvolved by this because their pay index is lower below the legal minimum. What they are offered and what enables them is the government's regulation and decision, either this bill. The second thing that seems important to me is the improvement of collective bargaining. This applies to both private and public and state-owned companies or companies. So, although the law in these things allows collective bargaining to last long, the law certainly does not allow the start of collective bargaining to depend on the will of the employer and that should be changed. If there is a need for preparation for this, these preparations should be defined by a certain deadline, and if it is necessary in this respect to establish supervision and control where necessary, and we know that there are some companies that generally have no problem with money, they delay the start of collective bargaining, then it is necessary to do everything to make it happen. What seems to me to be good and what seems to be good and necessary in the SDSS Club is that we strive to have a legal solution to which the minimum wage will be the one contracted between employees and employers. Not that it happens that employers smuggle through the concept of minimum wage and what is not minimum wage, so the additions to which employees have the right, cases of overtime, cases of work on Sundays, cases of working on holidays or some other holiday. Mr. Minister, these are really serious questions for both us and you as socially sensitive, as people we consider to be the question of fair paid work and fully paid work to assume not only justice but as you have heard from my predecessors and the question of people's health, the length of their lives, the possibility of providing them with adequate health care and schooling their children. We should devote ourselves to and stand in their protection, and make it clear to employers the conditions under which the competitiveness of the workforce will be defined and under which it will be carried out. Therefore, the basic minimum wage should be a clearly defined category and separated from all other additions that workers may have based on their work on which they have the right, difficult working conditions, special circumstances in which their working time must be extended, and unfortunately this is not the case. We all know that, everyone says that when you come to the store that if someone has overtime they're not paid overtime, they're eventually turned into a vacation, so if they can use it, and we're taking it. We tolerate it. In this regard, it is important that this supervision is strictly established on the one hand, and on the other hand it is important to get from here and from this pay phone, and also from an initiative that is good and supportive in basic achievements, and to build on segments where it is necessary to build. In order to stop the trend of draining people and labour force, and not to be among the last EU countries at minimum wage levels, I think we should listen to the recommendations that come from trade unions, which also come from those who think about how and how to increase labour security, work equality and equality based on work and work based equality, and go towards a minimum wage being 60% of the median wage or 50% of the average salary. Now we're not close to it, we're not far from it, which is why I'm saying, it's tangible and we need to take a step forward of that kind and announce, the council is the best place to announce it, better any other outside of this building and become social partners and the government to start doing adequate preparations and move in that direction. In the end, it's important that we have the right data, statistics on the height of the salary. Why would the relationship between the lowest salary in the Republic of Croatia, minimum salary and the highest salary that is sometimes protected by secret contracts be 50% or 50 times?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58915	Thank you very much, Mr. Pupovac. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Marija Buric, who will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Majda Buric, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58916	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Aladrovic, State Secretary, Honored Mr Opalic, respected colleagues and colleagues, so the current minimum wage law came into force as we had the opportunity in 2019, but already in the earlier Minimum Payment Act of 2018, the definition of minimum wage was specified, and it is said that such salary does not include increases belonging to the worker for overtime, night work, work on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that it is not working. This shall be paid on a minimum basis from 2018. It is good that the applicable law retains such a definition and complements the difficult working conditions. The object of this law that we also had the opportunity to hear is to regulate, further regulate the minimum wage system, and in particular how to determine its amount, deadlines are also very important to exercise control over the application of this law. It is important to mention once again that this law does not determine the level of minimum wage but only it says what it is, which it is not, which is paid on top of the minimum wage etc. Under the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a minimum wage Regulation for each calendar year and that decision shall be taken by 31 October of the current year for the following year. Under the law, minimum wage cannot be determined in the amount of less than the amount established for the previous year, and it is increased after consultations with the social partners, therefore to representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, the trade unions, in order to satisfy and balance the interests of both parties to the greatest extent possible. The minimum wage today is 4.250 kuna in gross or 3,400 kuna in net. It is irrefutable and the fact is that as much as anyone liked it or didn't like it, it is a fact that in the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic over the past 5 years, the minimum salary in gross amount has increased by 1.130 kuna and in the net amount of more than 900 kuna and such increases have never been recorded. Only comparisons due to the minimum wage throughout the SDP mandate grew by 179 kuna, and even worse than that, in 2015, it increased 0.4%, with 11 kuna and even 94 June. In the term of this government, despite all the difficulties and pandemics, what should also be stressed is that not only did the minimum wage rise, but all of it continuously, the average salaries grew, the number of employees increased by 50,000 compared to last year, and by more than 6,000 compared to the old normal, old normal year 2019. And I dare say that none of this has come in itself but is the result of good governance and knowledge. Today, the share of minimum wages in the average salary is more than 46%, its share in the media pay is about 55%, and the goal is also to gradually increase the share of minimum wages in the average salary that this government shows from coming to power in 2016 when we had a share of 38% in the bill, today it is slightly higher than 46%. It was mentioned today, and how many workers receive minimum wage, that's about 52,000. What should be pointed out in particular is that compared to 3 years ago it was a reduction from 73,000 to 52,000, and of course the law also cited data from the 12th month last year. Which is changed by this bill, very briefly. The definition of minimum wage is extended and to the one agreed by a collective agreement whose application has been extended. So today in Croatia we have only one collective contract currently extended, that's the one for construction. After the entry into force of this labour law, for example The most complex jobs of minimum wage will be considered precisely that amount provided for by a collective contract, e.g. For a 10 group of construction jobs slightly higher than 11,000 kunas, it will have to be paid as such, or the employer will be penalized. It's just one example from the construction domain that's covered by a collective contract. For overtime and night work, work on Sundays and holidays, the worker will have the right to raise wages, at least in the height of the collective contract, so no more increases than for example. One or five kunas, in addition, encourages the adoption of collective agreements and encourages further social dialogue. The possibility of a minimum wage contract for the monthly fund of hours is also opened. What else is changing? Contracting wages in gross amounts, difficult working conditions as I have already said are exempt from minimum wages and will be paid at the top of it. Cooperation with the inspection bodies or joint supervision of the Tax Administration and the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia is strengthened and a minimum wage is prohibited. Also mentioned today are Eurostat data related to EU Member States, many are calling for average European minimum wage, the situation is the following. In January 2020, 21 of the 27 EU Member States were prescribed a national minimum wage. The exceptions were Denmark, Italy, Cyprus, Austria, Finland and Sweden, which actually have a sectorally arranged minimum wage or so. The minimum salaries in the Member States ranged from 312 euros in Bulgaria to 2142 euros in Luxembourg. However, in an analysis of this article, Eurostat itself says that the real issue is an important issue, which is, in fact, the minimum wage in that country in which it can be paid, and what is the power and minimum wage in terms of purchasing power standards and what is a correlation, for example. according to kindergarten prices or housing prices in that particular country compared to minimum wage. If we look at the prices of dwellings in these countries, compared to the European average, Croatia is at 44% of the EU average, while for example Ireland is at 182% of the average, Luxembourg at 170%, etc., so it is not only a question of what is the minimum wage, but what is it with it and how much is its purchasing power. It should also be mentioned here that there is a project by the Ministry of Labour that is implemented through HZZ. It's about what happened. "de minimis" aids up to 200 000 euros, i.e. a million-and-a-half kuna paid to employers to preserve jobs in sectors where a lot of people receive minimum salaries, which are textiles, shoes, clothing, skin and wood, and which have difficulties in business. The employer is paid 50% of the minimum salary increased for contributions up to about 2,500 kuna and since I have one more minute, I would just like to mention, today the issue of non-payment of minimum salaries has been updated here, it will now, when this law comes into force, be better supervised, as I have already said, through the Joint Tax Administration and DIRH, or the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, and when the non-payment of wages is a criminal offence, the law is very clear there. Very, very clear and he says the crime is in a situation where the employer does not have the means to pay that salary. It should also be mentioned that in the event that the company goes into bankruptcy or blockade, then AORTU, or the Agency for the Search for Workers’ Search, pays 3 minimum salaries to workers. In any case, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of amendments and additions to the Minimum Payment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58917	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ursha Raukar-Gamulin in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear ministers and colleagues from the ministry. In Croatia, therefore, more than 52,000 workers receive minimum wage and the number of workers on the minimal is growing. Of course, this is also related to the consequences of the Covida-19 epidemic, but we must re-establish the fact that the Croatian minimum, despite the 36% increase in the last 5 years among the lowest in Europe, is lower minimum wage than Croatia, as I said already have Hungary, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria, only four countries. The legislator in the introduction summed up all the changes said this allows for full application by the Constitution of the guaranteed right of every employee to earn money that can provide themselves and families with a free and dignified life. As much as we welcome certain changes in the direction of the protection of workers and the increase of minimum wage, let us not fool ourselves, it is far from a salary that would give free and dignified life to a man, let alone one family with one or more children because the minimum wage in Croatia is not a worthy salary that allows all the cost of life to be covered. The minimum wage in Croatia of 3600 kuna is net below the threshold of dignity, it is on the poverty line and we must strongly advocate the amount of minimum wage that will truly guarantee a decent life, so I agree with my colleague Buric, the question is really what with minimum wage can be done. In Croatia you can do little, almost nothing. In the green-left block, we believe that the methodology for calculating minimum wages, except for the criteria of relative inequality on the labour market, should also be based on the calculation of the minimum cost of living, in order to ensure that the minimum wage can indeed cover the basic cost of life. We believe that it is necessary to lay down more clearly the criteria for the calculation of minimum wage. According to the current proposal, the level of minimum wage is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Minister and after consulting with the social partners, taking into account criteria such as inflation, wage movement, unemployment movement, the state of the economy, etc., although it is nominally about the existence of criteria, we believe that the criteria should be clearly regulated and the minimum wage should be tied to the percentage of the average wage and that minimum 60% of the average salary in Croatia. Although the legislator says that this Law does not determine a minimum wage issue, but of course it is regulated by a minimum wage regulation, we do not see a real reason why clear criteria would not be explained and listed in this Law. We also believe that minimum rights should be regulated by legislation, and collective agreements should give the possibility of more favourable rights, not minimum or even allow for reduction of rights through collective agreements. The introduction also states that the adoption of this Act allows for higher minimum salaries for workers working in activities subject to collective agreements that have extended application in accordance with the general labour regulation. But the question is, what about workers who do not work in such activities and who are not covered by collective agreements? But my colleague, Ivana Kekin, will talk more about it in an individual debate. We welcome that, with the extras for overtime, night work, and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day which is laid down by law as unworkable, and which are not included in the minimum wage now include difficult working conditions. However, we believe that it is necessary to add that the minimum wage is not included in other additions, such as shift work or past work, so the internships that are not clearly mentioned in the new amendments, and we think they should be. We have an example of a lady who works in the state service, she has a salary of 3,400 kuna, which is of course the amount of minimum wage, but when the past work is taken away, her salary is 2,700 kuna, so it's quite clear by this example what the past work would mean, so it's not included in the minimum wage. Then we welcome the provision on the obligation to pay gross minimum wages because we know that often employers negotiated salaries in a net amount that workers did not benefit from tax charges because their salary would always remain the same and, in addition, such a worker would not feel supplements for example overtime work, working on holidays, holidays, etc. and, of course, it affected workers with the lowest incomes. Then we also welcome the ban on the agreement between the employer and the workers on giving up the right to pay the minimum wage. The law also adds that the collective agreement can determine that the minimum wage is determined in a way that the minimum wage for the whole year is divided by the annual fund of hours and the minimum wage is charged and paid in accordance with the minimum wage per hour and the monthly fund of the hour. We are highly opposed to such a provision because we consider such a provision to be the most affected workers in and such of the worst paid professions that, for example, have a seasonal character. It also opens up a large space for manipulation and further suspension of already the weakest paid workers because it is hard to believe that this application can also have adequate supervision. A small door is introduced less than minimum wage, which is unacceptable. Such provisions are introduced under cover to help the fallen industry survive, and in fact they represent the last nail in a coffin of exploitation of workers. In the past year, inspectors found that even 1,689 workers did not pay even minimum wage, so that's what the inspectors discovered. The question is, how many haven't been discovered and what are the actual figures that this minimum, even that minimally insufficient, no payout is paid? So what is evident from this requires important and urgent strengthening of the control and control system which seems to me that this proposal is not sufficiently standardized and sufficiently indicated. Finally, it is necessary to increase the minimum wage as soon as possible to a level that satisfies the dignity of workers and their families. By 31.10, there is still time for negotiations when a new minimum wage is brought and I appeal on behalf of the Green-Left bloc and, of course, of course, the Government hears requests not but the workers of this country that the minimum wage is raised to the level at which it will be able to survive, may not live, but at least survive because these are now not possible to survive. So it's not just a matter of labour rights, but of course it's a question of demographics, and it's also an issue of emigration, so it pours out the staff of the dramatic cast of personnel from Croatia. The only decent working conditions and pay enough for life's needs will motivate our young people to have children and will motivate them even more to stay in Croatia. Without it, we become a nation of over-preparation and poverty, doomed to naked survival without a real social perspective. The Green-Left bloc club will vote most likely abstentions to this proposal to amend the Minimum Payment Act in the hope that the legislator will take into account this debate and the union's objections and enter them into another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58919	Thank you, too. Mr. Erik Fabianic will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58920	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the meantime, I'm going to try to sum up how and why we regulate minimum wage today, and I'm going to start from the beginning of this country, but I'm going to try really short. So, before we made the new Croatian legislation that regulates it, we had an early 1990s collective agreement signed with the HGK unions and, as my friend and colleague former Minister Davorko Vidovic would say, that today the collective contract would be respected by some 6,000 kunas. There's no reason not to believe it, and we can make those calculations and doubt it. After that... we have the Labour Act, we have employers' associations, union associations, and we have a black period of the social state in the Republic of Croatia, of course states have been destroyed also by war destruction, but the damage that this country has done to itself. I'll remind you that it was a period within which the worker had no right or control over whether his contributions were paid. If he got the money, and if he got the pay list, that doesn't mean he had the right to even get that money on the bill, that he wasn't the employee's name, he was the arsonist. These are the blessings we have received with new democracy and new industrial neoliberal relations. Yes, the fact is that small shifts have been, but simple work has become measurable at the time of the short SDP government, and today we have this upgrade that we have. And I'll just remind you that by 2000. non-payment of salaries in the Republic of Croatia was not a valid reason for the strike. It also speaks of union freedoms that we enjoyed up to the threshold of the 21st century. Why are we today discussing the Minimum Salary Act or its changes? Because it was one of the conditions that even the Republic of Croatia could join the EU. If we didn't have that law, we wouldn't be a full member of the EU today. And this is our progress that today is also one of the strategic projects that is related to the EU during this term of office of the European Parliament is what some European minimum of decent, decent workers' salaries are saying. Are we with these changes and additions on the trail? I don't know. Is this improvement compared to the past state or to the current state? Yes, it is without further ado. I will use the second part of my own debate on the law itself, but as I have seen with my fellow ruling majority, the de facto reasoning of the law itself has been read, as well as the HDZ programme for this term of office, which is good because if you remember the government's trust when I discussed it, I was just discussing the salaries. And the fact is that in a strategic, original HDZ programme on point no. The 3rd election promise is that the priorities, therefore, are that the wages will increase, that the minimum wage will increase to 4.250 kuna, that is more than the HDZ suggested, the SDP has proposed 4,000 kuna. And now we can bid what's real, which is unrealistic, although we've determined it a year before you. No matter, people don't matter, this is about Croatian workers. Now my question is crucial, and this is the current 3,400 kuna net according to the current minimal de facto correspondence with 4.250 kuna gross, my question is the minister responsible for this portfolio whether HDZ has already fulfilled its election promise or not? I hope it isn't warm, and I see my colleague Buric confirms it to me as well, and that means, however, that this is going to happen on these 4.250 nets, but it's no longer in the priorities but in the government's programme it's put as of the end of the term, better anything than nothing, okay. Now, the question is, now we're talking about how by law and deadlines in September and in October, three-partitically the amount of minimum wage is agreed. If we're going to scale up, which means that we will certainly expect, or I, indeed, to have a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after which the minimumer will be raised to at least 300, for at least 300 kuna. Therefore, I expect that it will certainly be at least increased to 3,700 kuna, but net, so that next year you can still lift 300, and then at the end of the year, you can raise this to 4,250. I hope it's more than that. And now I'd cross over, so I'm going to set up for an individual debate on behalf of this and on behalf of the club final. Everything stands, unfortunately that part that's related to the introductory explanation speaks of the picture of the situation everyone here has been talking about. However, there are a few other small things that everyone mentioned, which is the number of workers, or percentages that receive minimum wage. I would ask to see how many other people or workers are covered by a collective contract that predicts a deviation from the minimumer by 5%, so at 95% of the salary because I couldn't read it in an explanation because we probably have a lot of such situations, and then we're going to have a little, unfortunately, slightly uglier number that's ugly for all of us, I think regardless of which side of the bench we're sitting on. As I am also in the Committee on Labour, but also in the Committee on European Affairs, we are dealing with, of course, the part that is related to the appropriate European salary and it is also listed here and we know that this is a big problem and it is very good and established and written in this opening part, which is a question of expanding collective agreements. Because the question of the European project is the same as how many workers in Croatia are on the percentage covered by collective agreements and I well remember the words of former Minister Marko Pavic, who had trouble expanding him in the first place because of tourism, so that the national collective contract in the tourism activity is extended to all employers, regardless of whether they are co-signors of the collective contract or not. But this is one good direction, without further ado, which is insufficient, because those small shifts that took place when the work became measurable and the payout was insatiably happening on the threshold when we were entering the EU, so when a Croatian citizen went abroad to work for tempting tariffs that we also heard about here had to have an entry visa for work, permission that he could be hired abroad at all, and a whole series of peripetia de facto that blocked the labour market. We have the biggest jumps as it says in the achievements of the government of Andrej Plenkovic in the previous term when we talk about the growth of average salaries, but not because it is thanks to HDZ, but because employers saw that we have freedom of movement within the EU and that it is easier to work in Austria for 1,200 euros, in Italy for 900, we talk about minimals, we talk about minimals, than remains in Croatia. Therefore, if a person wants to stay, the employer wants to keep the worker in Croatia must offer him a competitive labour price, because we kept talking about managerial wages on market prices for everything and everything except a competitive labour price for Croatian workers. Here's so much from me to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58921	Thank you. Mr. Davor Dretar will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58922	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The House Movement MPs' club will quickly and clearly begin with a sentence, the best social measure is economic reform. From the very beginning of the creation of Croatia's independent state, we can freely say, we are floating in a situation of indecision and indeterminateness. When we look at historical examples of countries where the state itself has been allowed to regulate everything from both social and economic events, history has taught us that it almost never or ever ends well. The abandonment of everything or regulation of everything to the free market has not only led to the rise of neoliberalism but also of course to severe economic crises that have shaken the entire world market over the past few decades. We can only observe when we talk about the individual's personal responsibility, and when we talk about the employer's capitalist, what, of course, happened when we move a huge percentage of American production to countries where the employer's extraordinary solution was to pay only a few dollars a day, but of course, it has now come toll, and for many years now, through global financial crises, we see the devastating effects of such attitude and such behaviour. But today we're not talking about anything global, today we're talking about these amendments to laws where we don't in principle find anything questionable. The worker absolutely needs to be protected, the state must be the one to give him the dignity of his work, even if it was contained in something like a minimum wage for which we are all agreed not to provide even the least normal living conditions from month to month. We've heard here and some Eurostat reports, you know, and statistics themselves are just a set of figures that can be proven, but at the same time also very challenging. I agree that housing prices as respected colleague Buric said significantly more in Luxembourg, and then we don't stand there badly when we measure through the apartment or its costs, but when we look at the average i.e. Pardon minimum wage in Croatia through the price of fuel here we can buy 300 liters in Luxembourg slightly more than 2,000. So, statistics can seriously fool us sometimes. I am sorry that we did not arrive, or the respected minister here in my replica, to comment on my question contained in the clear data, that therefore the average consumer basket is around 10,500 kuna, and if we add up two salaries in the family on the minimum, we will get the amount of 6,800, so absolutely not enough for life, to meet the basic needs of life, which we can unfortunately see through the fact that in large trade chains, especially those in foreign ownership, the question is whether we have any more in ours that cheap food products from abroad are increasingly emerging, which our citizens simply buy because they can't afford those more expensive and, of course, more expensive. Here's one concrete example not statistically but from my purchase two to three days ago. On the shelves of one chain I found a pack of kilos of corn for a price of 12.99, of course it's about goods from imports and I can tell you that you'll find that package of pounds of corn for 13 kuna in almost every basket that comes in that center at the cash register. I ask you, although it's not primarily, and least of all a political question, imagine putting yourself in the role of some manufacturer and realizing what you put in that pound of beef, packed it up and sent it to Croatia to sell it here for 13 kuna? That's what our kids eat. Of course, the mirror of minimum wages and the ways in which it is viewed and our daily life and the ways in which it is arranged absolutely should be welcomed, especially through the regulation of respect for work on Sundays, working on religious or state holidays, or holidays, and of course, night work, and it should be absolutely regulated both by those workers and workers who are in such situations should give fair and fair recognition and give them a decent salary. As a representative, I come from the third electoral unit, the northwestern Croatia where we know for ourselves in the past 10 years, 15 years, the processing industry that has been very developed there, the collapse, and unfortunately there is no end to that collapse. Most often there are workers, workers in the textile industry, who really work for incredibly low wages, even those below the minimum, which, of course, seems terrible and does not allow them to live normal lives. As I like to speak in real terms, each one of these Zagorska, Međimurje house or household must still have 10, 15 pizzas and must have a garden with all these salads, carrots and produce a lot of, a lot of their own food because of the wages you can't pay. So we need to, and certainly, we need to protect them through legal frameworks and provide them with minimum wage. And as for Sunday's work, mostly the work of shops, which always kind of appears to us at pre-election age, you know, it's a used story for now, and it won't happen again for three more years, there until some new choices, if of course, they don't come before and there needs to be a clear and responsible word. Working on Sundays, yes or no, through a minimum wage aspect might not be such an important topic. About it, the minimumer or not, he can't make a lot of decisions. But allow this one sentence, from public debates, should we need on Sundays to buy televisions, washing machines, or new shirts? Of course we don't. It certainly isn't a force for us. But can anyone forbid us from any law? Well, several judgments of high courts have already proved that the answer is no. So let's get going in this House to make sure we create a legal framework, ensure fair and efficient, dignified money, profit, elemental human dignity through an adequate reward for their and separation from the family, so let's let whoever wants it work. Once again, he says, we are at a crossroads where we cannot decide enough between the state's influence on the economic situation in the country or leaving the same economic opportunities to the market, which has also proved to be unable to regulate these very sensitive relationships in a very simple way, because of its basic need, which is a race for super profit. So let us implement reasonable, social and economic reforms and only then will workers in this country, workers, and even on a minimum salary have a normal salary, a decent and dignified normal human life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58923	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. She's the first one. Katarina Peovic. She's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm still in the last session, uh, my colleague, the Bukarica. ... Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, Col. Buric initially said on behalf of the club, she presented the position of the HDZ Representatives Club, so I will, in an individual debate, say several of my opinions, which, in turn, encouraged me and partly listening to the opening minister and also the representative of the representatives' clubs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First of all, I would like to begin with the fact that after the parliamentary elections last year, the government proposed a programme for this term of office in which it set out the fundamental objectives and priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Interesting for this topic that we are discussing today, which is the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, that the main starting point of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to develop, to make as big as possible, more social state, where the social security of our citizens would be one of the main priorities in the work of the Government. In this chapter of social security, Croatia is referred to as a healthy, prosperous and solid state, a fair state that needs to be achieved in that mandate, and at that time, by discussing the government's programme, first of all, we were aware of the fact that we have been talking about such goals of the government of the Republic of Croatia and such priorities at a time when Croatia, when Croatia, not only Croatia, has, but the whole world has been affected by a large, enormous pandemic that we have not remembered since we know and since we live. And during that very time, the time in which we are facing this pandemic and epidemic in Croatia, Croatia, in order to be a solid and secure state, has shown to many economic measures that this is not only a dead letter on paper, but that we are really living it, that as representatives, and also as a government, we are doing and contributing to that social security, so that, in order not to remain dead letter on paper, we are witnessing the fact that in the past 18 months, since the start and declared epidemic of Covida-19 in Croatia, about 18 billion kuna has been set aside to preserve jobs for some 800 thousand employees, workers and about 120 thousand companies in Croatia. Almost 10, over 10% of all companies in Croatia were in one way or another affected by state budget support and almost 45% of all workers in Croatia were covered by these same measures. So, the government's wish was to preserve economic activity on the one hand and preserve jobs and what is no less important and that is business activities of the full or as many employers as possible in the Republic of Croatia. And it should not be forgotten that during that time it was the largest minimum wage growth in Croatia. So, at a time when we are faced with such an epidemic that has significantly reduced economic activity, economic activity in Croatia, on the other hand, the answer which is on the trail of the righteous Croatia that I was just talking about was the growth of the minimum wage in Croatia, until then the biggest... The year before that was 250 kuna, about 150 kuna rose again in that year, so that during the four years of the government's term of office, the government raised about 35% of the minimum wage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So somewhere around 904 kuna is in the government's term of office, increased minimum wage. We can talk about the level of minimum wage, the minimum wage in a certain way is the same mirror of the economic power of a particular state, it is not controversial. An important element when we talk about minimum wage is the ratio between minimum and average salary, it has grown significantly, somewhere around 10% in that same mandate has increased this, has increased the minimum wage. Thus, compared to the average salary, 35% increased in absolute terms, but the average salary increased 10%. We can talk about that then. We can talk if she's really enough to cover the cost of workers' lives, but the fact is that in a certain mandate we're facing, I say with the biggest crisis in the economy, she's still growing, I'd say in one way she'd like to be bigger, and I hope the government will In this year, which is ahead of us, when you bring the minimum wage regulation, make another step. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] in order to increase that minimum wage. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] So I'm going to support this bill anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58925	Thank you. You have replicas. Mrs. Grozdana Peric is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58926	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr Bačić, it is very important to note that it is precisely the concern of minimum wage in this context and it is very important to place it in gross amount because, despite the fact that the untaxed part of the income was increased, in the event that it was agreed in the net amount, the pay and employer could then pay it in less than it did, the worker was then able to pay it in gross amount, but it was also very important to note that the government was able to raise salaries with the increase and those charges of the non-taxable which the employers were then able to pay to their employees, in order to, therefore, raise the standard of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58927	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58928	Thank you, colleague Peric. You are right, so on the one hand it's absolutely right and the law should regulate that the employer pays, contracts the salary in gross amount, because all of those improvements that are tax reform and in the work relating to income tax, go to the employee's favorite, and not the employer, or the employer is obliged to pay what he has signed and the worker to any tax reform, by reducing tax taxes by doing so automatically comes to an increase in salary, and we forget that, besides what the employer pays through agreed payouts, through the contract, that these are then also giving that which now seems to me somewhere around 12500 kuna per year, which allows the employer to pay off the worker without paying any tax taxes, and that is also a lot of time when we consider it not to enter into the minimum wage account.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58929	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58930	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, here I would really like to say without a cheerleading uniform, that it is true that the minimum wage has increased by 904 kuna from 2016 to 2016 and these are facts, we cannot deny it, but now the question is whether this minimum wage is enough to live. So we can't stop here, this government and we can't stop, we need to figure out a way to really increase the minimum wage, make the lives of our citizens, especially those poor people much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58931	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58932	Thank you, fellow Shimičević. That's what I said in the introduction, so we're talking about minimum wage, its height, but it needs to be put in a clear correlation with the necessary costs for a normal life of our fellow citizens. But another important element we may not have mentioned or I have not heard, how much minimum pay is participated in the total number of employees in Croatia. Croatia has now recorded the largest number of employees since the record was ever kept, and at a time when Croatia is still going through a severe epidemic or pandemic, when the world economy, and all GDP data says so in such a state, Croatia increases the number of employees. 3%, somewhere if 52,000 in Croatia are registered, those who receive minimum wage and 600 are insurance or a million and 510 000 employees, that's about 3%, if I'm not wrong, so it's still a lot, it would be best if all workers came out of that number, or the minimum wage height, but that's the fact, or that the government is practically dealing with such a problem well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58933	Time. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58934	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, today means we are talking about minimum wage and we all agree that it is insufficient and that we need to make additional efforts to meet the basic living needs of our citizens and our Government of the Republic of Croatia does so, along with the need for even regional development in order to ensure that these average salaries in all parts of the Republic are about the same. I am also glad that you mentioned that today has not been stressed, that we are in terms of pandemic, reduced economic activity, that our government has been saving jobs, saving jobs, and preserving employment for about 600,000 people who have not all worked on the minimum, but have received at least that amount or paid them that amount, which is better in any case than they have lost any income and have kept their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58935	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58936	I thank my colleague, Pocrnic Radosevic, five minutes is a little bit for what I wanted to say about that data. Now my colleague Simičević has helped me to explain this further through the replica. When we talk about the state of the economy, I believe that almost, almost every citizen who talks about it first thinks about the height of GDP, the height of GDP per capital, the number of employees and the number of unemployed. Through these parameters is the average salary height and minimum wage height, these are the parameters through which we observe the state of the economy of a particular country. Now, on today, I said that while I was preparing for the debate, Croatia has about 119,000 unemployed, this is the data found at the Employment Office. I'm interested in what happened last year, what happened last year. So, last year's record year, which we said Croatia has not yet reached, and that we will achieve planned growth very quickly, Croatia records only two or 3,000 less unemployed than 2019, but at the same time more employees. And in relation to the 2020 crisis, 27,000 less unemployed. So that's the data that says how and how Croatia goes...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58937	Mr. Bacic, thank you, we can't, we can't, we can't go too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58938	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58939	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58940	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, we heard today from the debate of colleagues from the opposition when all figures go in a positive sense in our country and from the good tourist season and from the growth of the average salary and from this minimum wage that has grown in the past few years for 900 kuna, the government is not responsible for that, in fact everything regulated the market. If any poorer numbers appear by chance, the government is immediately guilty and must resign or leave. Is this how we can conduct such discussions here or is there really in the past time of the moves made, the laws passed, the tools adopted that can happen the way that happens and that this market can normally function and that these wages are higher? We are listening now from the IT sector as much as their salaries have increased, given that the government has also made some moves, especially through the last tax reform to make that happen. We also listened to these discussions, so does the government we support today really help or help with its moves when we talk about what is happening today in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58941	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58942	I thank my colleague, Boric. I agree, there are always objective and subjective circumstances and for the growth of the economy largely help, as far as I can tell, general developments at either EU or world level and clearly that the good state of the economy in the environment also helps our economic growth. But the fact is that in these times where we are in the second quarter, we are recording one of the largest GDP growth in Europe, so not among undeveloped countries, but among the world's most developed countries, we are 5th in second quarter. So through this pandemic time if everyone was about that growing market there was wind in the back then it was equal to everyone or not equal to everyone. During that time, thanks to government measures that we singled out the most of our budgets per capita... The most in Europe is one of these indicators I've talked about before. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58943	Time. Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58944	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you mentioned in your debate what the government did during the panedema to protect jobs and wages. 700,000 workers thus received and used that measure and 120,000 employers. However, it should be remembered that the government contributed to the growth of salaries and protection of employees and through 5 tax laws when it relieved the economy and our citizens with an additional 10 billion kuna, reduced the rates of income tax, introduced many new non-taxable incomes, young people around them, 320,000 employees will certainly receive tax returns and sought to protect both salaries and workers through a number of measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58945	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58946	I agree with my colleague Juričev-Martinchev that the many measures we have taken here in the assembly have helped to preserve the economy in Croatia on a proposal from the government. It's not at all, it has no doubt, I wanted to say before, so time, time interrupted me. After Malta, we singled out the highest GDP level to preserve the economy in Croatia and then it has a result... , what happens and what macroeconomic indicators show and indicate is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is no doubt about it at all that it has been singled out and reforms have come to this. However, we now know that the data has been released that the average salary in Croatia is around 7,250. It will in a certain way be a challenge to the government in this now regulation that is ahead of us. I do not believe that the government will try to remain at the level of the minimum wage share in the average salary. The growth of the average salary automatically pulls away the government's obligation to raise minimum wage, so we wait for the government's regulation to see if it stays at that level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58947	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović. Ma'am. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58948	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, we all agree that 3,400 kuna is not enough for a decent life, but it is just another in a series of indicators that confirm that wages in Croatia are not enough for a decent life. I'll give you a few more, so 840,000 of our citizens are in the quiet overrun, not because they're doing it out of obsess, but because they don't have the money for a decent life. Also in 2019. Before the pandemic Eurostat showed that each other in the Republic of Croatia does not have funds for unforeseen costs. The fact is that when Croatia entered the transition, it was the second in power of the economy from the transition states, we are now at the beginning and these are facts, these are figures. If we don't speed up, we won't catch up with Slovenians who have almost twice the minimum wage. What's here in the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And we can't get away from that. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58949	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58950	Dear counterpart Vucimilovic, I agree that the Croatian economy was among the strongest in the transition states and there are still transition states that cannot be measured with us today. You are talking about Croatia's position when it comes to transition states that are EU members. That's what you're talking about. None of those countries that you and I and all of us are comparing Croatia have had 30 years of what Croatia had. I don't want to think of it as a permanent justification now, if we don't grow in GDP that we expect, but these are also facts and it should not be disturbed by the mind when we talk about comparison, Croatian for example, Slovakia or the Czech Republic or Poland. That we can't measure, they didn't have this recent history the way we had it. But the fact when we talk about minimum wage that Croatia is 5 anyway, let's say 4 countries that are older than Croatia have smaller minimum wage, therefore, and through this aspect we can observe exactly the topic... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58951	Thank you. Time. Mrs., and at the end of the day, Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58952	... Since we talk about employers as someone else very often here in this debate, we didn't even look back at that we're an employer like the Parliament, that the government is an employer, so I wanted to ask you if you've been doing an analysis, how many people who are employed in the Parliament and the Government have paid less than 4,000 kuna? [[Specially enabled.]] And what is the plan for us as a Parliament and as a government to show our example of wage hikes that are now minimal or close to minimal in the Assembly to what the minimum wage for a decent life in Croatia should be so that we first do it within our own house, and we can do it by redistributing the funds that we received by tax reform because we all grew our salary by 1000 kuna due to tax reform and redistributing it to those people who have Do they really pay less than four thousand kuna? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I've been trying to get a meeting with the President of the Parliament this whole year and I'm not making it. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58953	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58954	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Bencic. So, state, let's say the government is the biggest employer in Croatia with about 260, 270 thousand workers to whom the state is an employer. I, I think you remember, too, and that is why you kept quiet that the salary growth is precisely the workers whose government was an employer during the four-year period for which this government was responsible, in that term was the largest in Croatia. That they were just growing wages was somewhere around 18%. The growth of employees' salaries with all increases, in education was supposed to come to 24%, and then it's clear because of the reasons we both witness because of the pandemic, that growth was somewhat slowed down, but in any case, when you ask specifically, the growth of wages in the public and state sectors was higher than the growth of wages in the real sector, which does not mean that the one whose small salary is the most satisfied [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Small wages continue to grow less, but in any case [[Thank you very much.]] You need to have that kind of approach that you're talking to, to be.../incomprehensible. [[Intruder: Thank you very much!]] who has the lowest salary. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58955	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Silvano's Day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58956	Thank you, Vice President, esteemed representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I'll begin my individual presentation with a single quote. The day we see the truth and say nothing about it is the day we start dying. Martin Luther King. The truth is that everything that's written in the reasoning of the law has no dispute, no one has disputed the explanation, what it says, the truth is that it needs to be supported, that a little step forward, the truth is that it's not a solution but the beginning of finding a good new solution. So here, I don't have a dilemma here, that this is just the beginning of a job, if we want to. And one of our prominent editors said in time, a society that is healthy, must be able to find a solution. It can't be tolerated to the poor. And we don't have time to wait 2 years for some of the employers and trade unions to agree, and if they don't agree on these minimum supplements because any 10% or 15% supplement that would be installed in a general collective contract would have to be applied to minimum wage, we don't have time, the government doesn't have time. He can't tolerate this. So the government has to give a much shorter deadline. You've got 3 months, you've agreed on what extras on minimum wage will be paid, for overtime, for work on holidays, for work on Sundays, for past work, here you go. We have a goal, we have a goal to fight poverty. We have a 2014-2017 fight strategy, we're not far away. We need to bring in a new strategy. So they're not just poor pensioners, some particular ethnic communities. The poor are these people who work for minimum wage, English is the term working power. Working in poverty and we have to deal with it. This is not a risk of an accident that we have to tolerate because it's going to happen. Because you can make protection at work whatever you want, there will always be a risk and you will not eliminate it. You can't have zero tolerance from alcoholism or alcoholising the driver because someone will already get drunk and a seat for the wheel, but you can have zero tolerance for not paying for work below the limit you've set as a country. You can therefore have not that this is an offence but that it is a criminal offence to the existence and life of workers and his family if no minimum wage is applied. And so, what we started here, with these exceptions is for every commendation, this should continue for not two years, it should be put before the wall by the social partners. So, the government is not an arbitration officer and I don't see the government as an arbiter, but the government has to give direction with the social partners in the tripartite dialogue where this society is going, which is what we want to achieve, so it and then it has to set certain points to the goal within what time we achieve what goal. So, this is an exceptional opportunity for the competent ministry to impose and say gentlemen, you have 3 months to arrange a minimum, for all activities, minimum extras for overtime, work on Sundays, for a holiday, if you won't, we will pass the law. That's how it should be done. Thus, we would respond to our need for the minimum wage to cover an increasing and higher share of the average salary and then respond to the fact that the work is paid on Sundays and holidays and overtime rather than to play hide-and-seek with the labour inspection and that the basic profit in Croatia is not paid. It must not be our currency, we must not allow it as a democratic and social society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58957	Thank you, thank you very much. Several replicas, the first Mrs. Andreja Maric. [[Intruder Hrelja: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58958	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, all these years you've been trying to side with those who have been disfigured, now you're part of the ruling majority, so probably your colleagues will listen to you a little bit more. I support what you said, that it's not all two years apart, but that it's actually going into change as soon as possible. We have detected all of us in replicas and individual debates which are still not solved, from the very height of minimum wage, from not paying adequate extras to overtime etc., I have mentioned something else about the problem that people are being cut off for the days off, that they are not given weeks off, people are afraid to report all these irregularities to inspection because they are afraid of their work, especially in companies, here in our area, in the textile industry where they are unfortunately substituting even for this minimumer. Labour inspections raise some sort of indictment, but all this seems to be, or in reality, that he won't get rid of himself in time [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] What would you advise how to get these [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mrs. Maric.]] Just to finish, how can they turn to protect their rights to the workers at this point? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58960	Thank you very much. So, of course, I thank you for your support and I will say, no matter what position I am in in the Croatian Parliament, I am a national representative and otherwise I have been engaged in working relations and negotiation, so all the matter of this law and I have this very solid experience and part of the experience I always want to share with you. I would suggest to our government that they set goals and not step down because they have, the government has mechanisms, all mechanisms to implement this, so let this be a violation of the Minimum Pay Act, not a problem at all, and that's a mechanism that the government can build up must go right towards these violations. So work must be sacred, work must be what is done, must be paid, of which I do not give up, and I will always suggest in that direction, moving in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58961	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58962	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, you have well used and defined this problem so-called working skills or working poverty. But what's occupying me is three questions. First of all, whether the minimum wage corrections are enough for the decent lives of those who work for it, taking into account inflation, the uncertainty that we are exposed to, unfortunately, because of market movements, the constant purchase of food that is now being announced again, etc. Second question, does everyone get their salary? So, before me, my colleague already mentioned that the failure to pay overtime, but often, in full terms, they don't pay into these salaries, I've been contacted by workers who, of course, want to remain anonymous precisely because of the fears you mentioned, that they often don't get full pay, that they have to have other costs, transports, etc., so that the minimum wage is not at the end of the amount they get and the third is, do we have a maybe wrong approach. Why do we insist on a monthly minimum, why don't we insist on a minimum hour?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58963	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58964	Yeah, they're variations on whether we're going to insist on a monthly minimum amount or we're going to have a watch, but mostly, it always comes down to the same thing. So it has to be in the finals what it says in this law when we finally calculate everything. Of course there are other solutions, such as the minimum captain, as increased by certain working conditions and circumstances in which it is done. Sam is part of your replica, I'd like to say that the legislator himself, without any twisting, has said that there are violations, that there are over 1400 applications for non-compliance with the law, non-compliance with the minimum wage law, and that is a sufficient foothold to go forward and everything else is already said in your discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58965	Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58966	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Hrelja, you have touched on what I was talking about in your debate, which is that the legislator should nevertheless determine the amounts for which overtime and nighttime work should be increased and that this area should be better regulated. I would just add that, and here's a suggestion, and I'd like to hear your opinion, maybe do what some other countries have to do, and it concerns sector work. So see also in certain sectors where the share of workers working for minimum wage is expressed, how much that amount must be, but also by the age of those who work for minimum wage. So we have a lot of 18+s. I don't know, we have some countries that are standardized and that way, so what's minimal, how much is the minimum wage going up when it comes to these employees? Well, here's what I'd like to hear about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58967	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58968	Dear colleagues of Vesna, therefore it is not disputed that the Government can do so, but always as a man who was engaged in collective bargaining and respects what we once had until '95, the general collective agreement with the lowest basic salary and where we were all in that nest and then the public sector went out, so these unions of these activities thought they could negotiate God knows what, in the end it turned out that what we had was I would still give to the social partners to agree on the minimum minimum that must apply to all activities, and then to one general collective contract. If they do not, then the Government intervenes, and after that, collective agreements of activity, activities can be negotiated more because the law gives minimums and the general collective contract gives minimums.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58969	And the last replica, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58970	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MP, therefore, makes a fundamental difference between the rule of law, a state in which there is order, responsibility, a system that protects citizens and a state like ours. So, law enforcement. It is not disputed here that we are all in some way in favour and we want to implement this guaranteed minimum, but it is clear that we are also entering these amendments of the law because there has been non-compliance with the existing law in practice. So what do we do now? Once again, we're passing a law that's an excuse for inaction. So letting law enforcement into the hands of collective bargaining is a mistake. So collective bargaining should play its dominant role in the process before the state intervenes. The state needs to create a firm framework that it will say if there is no collective agreement, if there is no implementation in practice that consistently respects what has been negotiated is effective, quick sanctions, and before that, detection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Our country does not have through the competent ministries and inspections implementing mechanism to achieve this law in practice. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mrs. Oreshkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58971	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58972	Well, dear colleagues, we agree in principle, but our social partners, employers and trade unions exist. They have a law of established roles to play. The government has declared itself a supporter of collective bargaining, but nothing is happening. I will always be sooner for a deal than for a legislative solution, to solve certain problems. But that I have communication with the social partners and if they won't, if they're not to say an ugly word incompetent then I have to take matters into my own hands and responsibility and use the tools. That's what all states do. However, I know that in some countries trade unions are stronger and more organised and employers are more responsible and then it does not happen. So we have space for development. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58973	Thank you very much, thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs Vesna Vuciilovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58974	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, like I said, I didn't make it all on behalf of the club. The subject is such an extensive, demanding, reflects on many segments and I said that I would talk about both this structure and the sectoral and those who are the most exposed, the most represented and work most for that minimum wage. As I have already said, these are mostly women with lower education from, often from general education and services and from rural areas. What are these activities? Shop at little 18%, clothing production activities 12.7%, bread production, fresh pastries, pastry products, 5%, basic cleaning of buildings 5%, restaurant activities, bars 5%. What kind of activities are these? These are activities characterised by insecure working conditions, physical affairs and reduced coverage of collective bargaining and trade union protection. So here are some arguments that we are now going to move this law to a little stronger social and negotiation and collective bargaining into the water. They're simply activities where it's not expressed. And stressing that somehow social dialogue needs to be stressed and seen that everything will be resolved through social dialogue is simply an insight into the structure of the means of activities in which those who receive minimum wage are employed without substance and in advance miss. Most of these activities are small entrepreneurs, micro entrepreneurs, they are very busy activities, and they are because of the structure of our unemployed, but also the liberalisation of the labour market that we have done fully with the Foreigners Act, which we have talked a lot about in those past year, they continue, these employers can continue to avoid social dialogue, can avoid collective agreements based on which all these issues and overtime and night work, work on holidays, Sundays, etc. So this thesis that we are going to solve these changes and additions by social dialogue, we are not going to because by looking at the structure of the activities in which they are working with the majo of a woman, it simply says that it will not be. What I want to point out and what was the same is poverty among employees, and the fact is that poverty is exposed not only to individuals, people who work for minimum wage but also to their families and this highlights the moral dimension of this problem because these people make an active contribution to this society, but are still exposed to poverty, living on the margins and being exposed to social exclusion. It is not just us that is the problem of the whole EU and beyond because deindustrious transition to post-industrial society has increased uncertainty, the number of prominent workers, and I must point out here that Croatia is ahead of the number of those who work for a certain time. It is a reflection of the structure of our economy in which service activities dominate and where less skilled and less paid work prevails. Of course, Croatia is no exception, market liberalisation is present in all EU countries, even a new concept of flexibility has been created that unites labour market flexibility, but the fact is that this is exactly what increases the risk of employee poverty and is further highlighted last year when due to strict closure and compensation that has been a major burden on the budget, but were still insufficient to meet the basic needs of life. Croatia has yet to build a system of protection of workers in less-paid jobs by combining minimum wage institutes and social benefits systems aimed at low-employment households, on less-paid jobs, which are exposed to poverty, which is a particularly sensitive issue when in such households living and under-age children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58975	Thank you. Time. You have two replicas, Mr. Hajdukovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58976	Thank you very much. My colleagues you have well noticed that often workers working on harder jobs or higher-risk jobs are actually those who receive minimum wage and absolutely agree and I want to overpower your argument that collective bargaining and social dialogue in this case and in this segment of business will certainly not get results. So, somehow as a legislator and we, if we don't protect these workers, I'm afraid they won't be able to fight for themselves. But what I'm concerned about, and I've mentioned it before, is the dignity of people who live on minimum wage, is it enough for a decent life? If you take into account an average Croat or a Croat who has no real estate or who has no direction if he has children or school children who are even more expensive to pay for public transport, who is often inefficient if they do not have their own car, and most often do not have that amount really enough for a decent life?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58977	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58978	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic, for your question. I think we can all agree that this amount is not enough, even when it comes to a household where only one person means one person who works for minimum wage when we talk about families that have one or two children that is definitely impossible. And they're exposed to poverty, that's a fact to be realistic. There are a large number of these activities here we have seen now, so what these activities are about, they are pretty much represented in our economy and that our obsession with tourism, the counting of tourists every year doesn't help too much to remove these problems and everything so it's necessary that we reach at least 60% of the average salary, but we must be aware that this average salary also varies significantly from Zagreb, Slavonia and Baranja where we come from and other parts, it is not uniform in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58979	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58980	Dear colleague Vesna. Social dialogue is not an inherited right of a society, nor can it be transplanted from a society, copied and applied in Croatia. It is the democratic gain of Western European societies in terms of the idea of socialism, the social science of the Catholic Church and American liberalism, and they have perfected the way to negotiate and plan their future. So, tripartite social dialogue with the government of the Republic of Croatia is not a debate club but a place of planning for future development of working relations, and therefore, dear colleagues, I want to give a brief opportunity for the social partners to agree within these remaining three months of this year on the minimum wage additions in order to avoid manipulation of them. And if they don't, give them a deadline, we'll go ahead and settle it by law because it's of general interest to the Republic of Croatia, it's my idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58981	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58982	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrelja. I agree with you that social dialogue is something that is the fluid of democratic societies and that it needs to be supported and that it needs to be intensified. But when you have a structure of the economy that is going to be in Croatia, and that is a fact, then you can't expect it, see if in the production of bread, fresh pastries, pastry products and cookies 5% of the women who receive the minimum, we really think that some local baker will make a collective contract with their employees. He won't. So the state must, the state must do what is a legal minimum and protect workers because large economic operators have all the wave collective agreements, which does not mean that workers are protected as well. We have examples of new collective agreements where workers' rights are reduced each time. We've got them in Osijek, and I'm not going to talk about who it's about right now, but we can't expect to solve everything through social dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58983	Thank you, ma'am. You don't have any more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Majda Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58984	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So, in the opening speech on behalf of the club, I think I've highlighted enough the chronology of the growth of minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm not going to talk about this except a reminder that the minimum wage is in the last 5 years. in the net amount grew by more than 900 kuna. On this occasion, I would be bound exclusively by the amendments and additions proposed by this proposal of the law, which I find extremely important. This is primarily an extension of the minimum wage definition and the introduction of supervision of an extended collective contract. What does it mean for a worker, and what does it mean for an employer? If, therefore, an extended collective contract is awarded the minimum wage amount for a given place of employment that is greater than minimum and if that salary is, for example, the minimum wage. 5,000 kuna, and the employer paid the worker only the amount prescribed by the regulation, so the amount of 3,400 net, then the employer did not misdemeanorly answer due to a minimum wage failure. According to the amended provisions, the inspection is required to verify that the employer has paid the minimum amount contracted by an extended collective contract for each post. In this case, if the employer has not paid these 5,000 kunas, he will be fined with a high penalty for the offence of 60 to 100,000 kuna, and for the person responsible for the employer of the craftsman or person carrying out the second independent activity, it will amount to between 7 and 10,000 kuna. The question of why it is a crime has often been raised here, and in which case it is a crime. The law is very clear there and he says that failure to pay minimum wages is a criminal offence in case the employer in the account has money to pay the salary, which he does not. So, that's when the payout becomes a felony, and in this case, when the employer doesn't have that means, then it's a felony. And in the Republic of Croatia, what is important to say is currently only one collectively extended contract, and that is the one for construction, which provides for 10 groups of jobs and for each group of businesses is contracted to pay a certain amount. The second group of jobs already has a planned salary that exceeds the minimum wage regulation and in an extended collective for construction it amounts to 4.830 kuna, up to 11.130 kuna for the most complex group of jobs. Therefore, for a worker who performs the most complex jobs in construction, the minimum wage will be considered to be the same amount from that 10th group of transactions of HRK 11.130 and will have to be paid as such or the employer will be punished. In any case, this raises the social security of workers, and protects those employers who have so far respected the provisions of the collective agreement, but also encourages trade unions and workers and employers to further social dialogue and new collective agreements. And what I think is also important is overtime and night work, and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day that is scheduled not to work when a worker will have the right to raise wages and at least at the height of a collective contract whose application has been extended in accordance with the law, which means that there will be no longer any possibility of paying for those days the smallest monetary unit, kuna, lipa or anything more, but it will need to be consistent with the collective contract. I have already said which collective contract is currently extended and in this extended collective agreement are agreed to increase the hours of work of 30% for overtime and night work, and work on Sundays 50%. If the employer pays less with the possibility of suing the amount owed, he will also be liable for the offence and pay the fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58985	Thank you very much. The first replica of Mrs. O'Donnell. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58986	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you were the secretary of state at the Department of Labour, so you have some experience. Well, please, here's a concrete advice, so what you would advise our citizens, dissident workers who have no one to talk to because they're not unionally organised, they don't have special collective agreements in companies where they work, they're afraid to call themselves a labour inspection because they're afraid for their jobs, so I'm talking about specific examples, citizens who have been talking to me, and they're cut off in, say, situations, I've already mentioned something, so that their annual vacation is on holiday or on holiday, they don't have a week's vacation, they can't use free days because there's no one to work, they're not paying for the overtime that they should, so they don't have anyone to talk to. Are we waiting for regular inspection, so if someone is being prosecuted for specific counseling and asking you to listen to them from the ministry? So you can look back on that later. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58987	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58988	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Maric, therefore, as regards workers who have any problems or who face the situations you have described, they always have someone to address. First of all, it is the National Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, which responds to all the performances. There is, of course, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, social policy and family that will also certainly be very open to giving or interpreting laws that are within the jurisdiction of that ministry. There's the IRS, so there's always institutions that will be working for the workers, who are in disposition. And let's not forget again I'm going back to social dialogue and collective bargaining so that in...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58989	Thank you for.../incomprehensible/... finishing the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58990	I will, it's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58991	Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58992	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Burić, in an exhibition on behalf of the club of representatives, you mentioned de minimis support for the preservation of jobs in labour intensive activities such as leather, textile, clothing, shoes and wood industry. So this is about EUR 200,000 per entrepreneur, and the condition is that money is spent on co-financing of minimum wages. Now based on your experience, you were working as a secretary of state as the intensity of using these support and whether there may be a situation, is it true that the thesis that is being carried out is always about minimum wage or the amount of salary depends, however, on the willingness of the employer to invest in his workers, to pay them fairly for their work in such a way as to keep them and ensure their productivity to his firm. So if you have a good example of a positive, positive example from practice. [[Thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58993	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58994	Thank you, Mrs. Pocrniæ, I will start with a good question you asked me for an example of good practice, of course they exist and I think it is necessary to particularly apostrophe and their importance here. When we talk about the woody, leathery, textile industry, metal general labour intensive industry, there are extremely good examples. As I come from Gorski Kotar, I will give this example of the RST peletarnica company in the town of Delnice, which is extremely highly modernized, digitized and which pays for 40 of its workers the average net salary of 7,600 kuna, so it is the wood industry in Gorski Kotar and it is one of the exceptional examples of good practice. And as far as the de minimis support you mentioned is concerned, these are the support paid through HZZ just to the labour-intense industries. to pay co-financing is 50% of the minimum wage with the contributions included. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58995	Thank you. And finally, Mrs Vesna Vucilović, wait a moment only after that we will move on to the presentation of the position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58996	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Buric, we are making minimum wage for the average salary, and we see that prices in recent months have been wild. So food products, building materials, energy, grow at two digits. In your opinion, whether inflation may need to be inserted into that formula, so let's say a total on the situation in the economy and perhaps should pay particular attention to the very activities where low wages are expressed and where those categories of endangered employees are at risk and threatened with poverty even though they are employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58997	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58998	Thank you. Dear Mrs Vucilović, what needs to be pointed out in particular is that, according to the latest data, the Republic of Croatia has more than a million and 606,000 employees, which has exceeded the 2008 figure. This is an extremely good and valuable information that speaks about activity in the labour market. All 4% of these million and 606 thousand employees are actually people who receive minimum wage, which this government has increased in the last 5 years by 1.130 kuna. That's number one. As far as the commission is concerned, as regards the rise in consumer prices mentioned in the Ministry of Labour, there is a committee to analyse and monitor minimum wage it was founded in 2018, continuously working [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and on the basis of consumer prices and all other indicators in fact determines, proposes [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] the height of the minimum wage. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u58999	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59000	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59001	Thank you. Now we're going back to today's debate and it's Mr. Zekanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59002	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about minimum wage, I'd like to point out here a key fact that wasn't really mentioned in the debate too much, and it's extremely important, and that's that it's net, and I'm going to stress the salary that workers get, and it belongs to the category of minimum 3,400 kuna. So here you get... gross, nobody gets gross on your hands but get a net of 3,400 kuna. And now that simple question to all those who are the authors of this law and all those who currently manage Croatia, can you live on 3,400 kuna? Another important fact is that apart from those 50 thousand, and there are some and more people who belong to the minimum wage category that there are hundreds of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of Croatian workers who have only one more swear. They don't belong to the category minimal, but they only have a few kunas left. What's sad or I'm going to say terrible is that often the state's employer is just some of them. I have pointed out the example of Croatian mailmen, not the only Croatian mailmen who have only a few kunas more than the minimum, so there are dozens of jobs in the country in the country that belong to that category, no one is talking about them. And now what I would like a respected minister and respected colleagues from the ruling SDSS-HDZ coalition to understand, out of 3,400 kunas a month cannot live. Try to reach out to you respected ministers, Your Honor, Prime Minister, for a month with that amount. Imagine, for example, that you are accidentally renting or not having your own real estate but that you must, for example. in Zagreb some cave of 1,500 kuna to pay. I purposely told the cave because for 1,500 kuna in Zagreb you will not find an adequate apartment according to the standards of the 21st century or you will find it at some extreme periphery. Imagine more respected owners that you also have children, have a family and that you must enable those children to be trained, that you must wear them, that you must equip them, and that you must buy them for example. The phone, the cell phone that costs several thousand kunas today. So, it's a virtuoso of survival, and that's what I'd like to hear from you to actually apologize in advance to the Croatian public, to tell the Croatian citizens in advance to forgive or congratulate you on the skills you possess, I congratulate you on what you do every month because thanks to the laws that the current set brings you, you simply have to be virtuosi, miracle workers to survive the whole month. Of course, I haven't heard that from the legislator of this bill, of course we won't hear from the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic or his partners from the SDSS, for example, but I have to point out here for the fifth time, from 3,400 kuna per month no matter how rational you were, no matter how you gave up your personal car, no matter what you gave up your clothes, for giving up every luxury trip, no matter how much you gave up coffee in the cafe you can't survive. For those of you who don't know, there's a couple of kinds of ham, there's a kind of ham, a ham for pizza, they feed off that pizza ham for those people. There's a little fish in our shores in Sibenik we call it a wuss, a heartburn, and you can buy half a kilo for 10 kunas, they eat exactly that fish, not like some bran, or pomegranate or toothpicks. I'm sure the minister doesn't have a full fridge of pâtés in action, but I'm also sure the ones I'm talking about have a full fridge of pâtés on action. Here's so much on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59003	Mr. Marian Pavlichek will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59004	Dear colleague. Here I agree with you that 3,400 kuna is not enough to survive over one month, but the bigger problem is that for the last ten years, although we have been EU members for eight years now, there has been a decline in the standard of living of citizens. In fact, salaries and pensions do not follow price increases, and in the last 12 months we have had a drastic increase in food prices on average of 10%, and no one, almost no one in the Republic of Croatia's salary has increased by 10%, let alone a pension, which means that our citizens are increasingly living financially year by year, and now their standards are falling. By entering the euro area, I'd like to hear more of your comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59005	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59006	Dear colleagues, thank you for mentioning the most important topic, the most important political topic of the second term of Andrej Plenkovic. So, Andrej Plenkovic, or his government, will at any cost, at least break it over their knees, try to bring Croatia into the Eurozone. They will try to point out because the last word will be introduced to the Croatian people into the euro, regardless of what it means to fall in the standards of Croatian citizens. I'll repeat, the decline in the standards of Croatian citizens. Prices in retail, in sales in all countries that introduced it at a time when there was no crisis, have increased significantly. Given the trends we have today, I am talking about an increase in retail prices and given the experience of the countries that introduced the euro, there is a disaster coming to Croatia. So, at that moment when Andrej Plenkovic does what he intends, pays, the minimum wage we're talking about will be or 400 euros. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59007	Thank you. Mr. Michel Jaksic is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59008	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, above all, good afternoon. So today we are discussing a minimum wage law and what, of course, I must stress at the beginning of my debate, any improvement, however minimal it may be, is something to be welcomed, which should be supported and said it's somewhat fine. And it was nice to listen today to a number of statistical indicators as to how much this percentage growth of minimum wage, how much our economy grew in the EU frameworks, how much tax reform was made to make it feel, but I think all these statistics are nothing more than running away from that core, those main ones, or who I think we lose when we discuss this topic that is definitely too important. Especially considering that today we have heard this information that today 52,000 people in the Republic of Croatia are at a minimum. If we had an increase compared to December last year, we could expand it, of course, with pensioners, and that's not the subject, and that question that could be raised through these 52,000, how many of them have a contract indefinitely, and how many of them are actually those who agree to all possible conditions just to work, and even contracts for a certain time. It is also interesting to return to the story of collective bargaining and trade unions, and we know what all Croatian national policy has done in 30 years, to absolutely destroy any union activity, so that it actually destroys that ultimate union power that has always existed and in developed democracies exists even today, only they have been developing it for decades. And so when we list all these statistical indicators that aim to show that the situation is actually great, each of us should remember that we're talking about people who work for 3400 kunas, that it's usually either those who do heavy physical work or that it's cashiers, cleaners, that we're not listing all the interests so that it turns out that I'm discriminating someone, so people we meet every day in our normal, ordinary lives. There are a number of people who have accumulated a few years of work experience, who have been through all those haranga at the time of conversion and privatisation and watched some become enormously rich, and there are some people from all those corruption affairs where others have also come out even richer, and some young people who have just moved on. People who can't buy their apartment today, people who can't make it possible for their children today, people who listen today and watch us very happy and happy because now they're going to get 3,400 kuna wages. We don't mention inflation, we don't mention that it's all collected, we don't even mention what they can do with it. Now, to show that we want to do something towards a minimum wage, to help these people, I think it would be a much more meaningful debate about when we will have a guaranteed salary that meets the existential needs of every citizen of the Republic. But for that we should have a clear strategy, although of course, citizens are tired of all our strategies, a clear vision, but also of the clear energy that we lack. A clear vision and energy that we have finally clear tax policies and employers because not always employers are guilty, but also according to the employment that will guarantee them this existential minimum they need for a normal life, but also a clear strategy and vision in that part that someone finally collects courage and says why we came to this and what we need to do in the next 5, 10, 15, 20 years. Because we're going to have fun with the slight raises of minimum wages, interpreting people statistically that it's great, they're going to live harder and harder, which is already happening today, and compared to that, there's going to be a single process, that there's going to be new changes in jobs at all and in the necessary workforce, and we're just going to have new contingents and labour on the minimal. That's what we need a vision for, that's what we need energy for, that's what we need a strategy for because today we're talking about great joy with 3400 kuna and we're making a big step with our salaries. I said what people do for that money, and in parallel, we have a process in Germany where a big political debate in parliamentary elections how to get to the minimum monthly salary of 1960 euros. I think every real person agrees that that's what every statistic and every one of our beautifully painted figures falls on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59009	Thank you, too. It's a replica from Mrs. O'Donnell. Anke Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59010	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, colleague Jaksic, so you were the one who initially said that we accept all sorts of shifts, and we accept. So all the little shifts that are, we're going to be there and somehow and affirmative and accept, aware that it's actually just one drop in the sea of everything that we're talking about here when we talk about minimum wage, very often we're talking about the difference between form and content. So we will formally pass the law, there will be a minimum wage, that salary should be paid and such a minimum wage should be paid, and so that relationship between that minimum wage and what is needed for life is a real indicator and there is an indication that we are one of the EU's worst students, but what we should certainly talk about and when we talk about minimum wage is the European Green Plan. Where are we, what are we? Our idea should be to have as little of these bad, cheaply paid jobs as possible because then the more discussion about minimum wage won't be like this than some other one, unfortunately we always prefer to discuss form and much less content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59011	Absolutely yes, and I agree with you, and I dragged it through my debate, so I think that, with the debate and the minimal technical changes to the Minimum Salary Act, we need that one vision, energy, a strategy that will clearly know what we are doing with a minimum wage that must be sufficiently existential, today we have found that it is definitely not, but that we also know what we want to do with our education system, so after that entrepreneurship and the economy. We are missing all of this, so we look forward to some small shifts, some statistics that at some stage go into our hands although we are running away from the number of those who may be on the minimal for 2-3 years because simply people have gone across the border. We are still from below 5 countries in the EU at a minimum wage level or below and it is not something that needs us and can especially rejoice if we like to admire how much GDP we have grown and how much we ultimately have the opportunity to withdraw new European funds for the real structural reforms we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59012	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Okroša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59013	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State You can see with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Minimum Salary Act. I believe that by adopting this law, we will provide greater minimum wages to workers precisely in those activities in which collective agreements which have extended application are in force in accordance with the general labour regulation. There will be an establishment of control over overtime and night work and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that a collective contract is not being negotiated. This prevents unfair competition among employers, while providing workers with the necessary adequate income for the work done. This newspaper will also have a positive impact on the repression of undeclared work, which is largely represented. From this point on, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's commitment to foster bipartite collective bargaining and social dialogue. That's exactly what's important as the best tool to regulate the favourable rights of workers from working relationships. We have heard that more than a million workers are currently employed, that the net minimum wage has been increased by 900 kuna. Of course, we need to pursue further increases, of course there has been some inflation, and we believe that the government will continue with quality work to keep the minimumer growing. These amendments and additions to the Minimum Salary Act will further strengthen efforts to introduce a working relationship that will not be affected during the family day. Such a right to exclusion will surely become one of the determining topics when we talk about labour rights and labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59014	Next, since, yes, the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Erik Fabianic, please. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so the next one speaks finally on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Majda Buric. She's not here either, and then finally, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, she will speak to the respected representative Sandra Bencic. She's not here either, and yet finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS's club, she will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59015	I can make a joke right now, so it's up to you fellow MPs and MPs when the book only comes down to my letter. So two are the fundamental problems that have been discussed more or less during this debate today. First of all, if the corrections provided for by this law are any sufficient guarantee for the protection of minimum wages as one social correction and protection of workers. And the second question that I am a little more committed to is whether implementation that relies on collective bargaining and agreement between employers and workers is sufficient guarantee of the protection of workers. In the opening statement, or in the opening line, I said that actually, my fundamental objection to this law is that there is no good, there is virtually no institutional framework for its implementation. When we talk about an institutional framework, I aim at a fundamental function and a fundamental role of the state, and it seems to me that again we have another one in a series of laws that has forgotten what the state even serves. So any law, any law, can be assessed by what its purpose is. Its purpose is to ensure the implementation of those rights, those values which are recorded and imagined in the Constitution. One of them is that Croatia is a social state and should also guarantee the social security of its workers and employees. And it's not just the interest of people who work so that they can live decently and with dignity, it's also a public interest because without a system of good wages, there's not even a movement of the economy, it's simply a country where you live badly. And where is the role of the state and what have we failed to do? In the past 30 years, we have not simply designed, and thus we have not built institutions that would ensure that the implementation of those ideas, values, principles and rights is ensured in application and in practice. And that's why I said that this whole law is how it's imagined with the call of employers and workers, so let's make a deal, but if you don't agree more or less to anyone, then we'll just see what we're going to see, so that means that we actually spent today for nothing and for nothing. What the state needed to ensure was to ensure that, if the agreement is not in practice, the worker has safeguard mechanisms for the exercise of the rights that we guarantee them in principle. The legal system must be predictable, safe, clear, clean, in which there must be order and responsibility. In order for him to be such, not only must one law within himself be logically connected, but it must be related to other laws. So now I'm going to say that this law in its implementation in the part where the inspection determines whether there's injury in practice is related to the law that we discussed yesterday, to the General Administrative Procedure Act. And one of the MPs took a good look at the fact that we talk a lot about digitisation without asking ourselves how competent bodies and competent ministries see this digitisation in practice with equipment that is 10, 20, 30 years old, and somewhere in such bad conditions that they simply cannot monitor these modern communication trends that we often talk about and love to boast about. We talked about how the system can use databases, analyze them, and see if again someone and after these changes and laws found some kind of hole that they would say, here, I've weighted just enough to formally meet these criteria that the law sets, but in practice that doesn't mean 10 kuna for 1 hour of his work, for example, overtime. That's not really what you're talking about, that's not what you're even thinking about. And this leads to the fact that we have the normative activity of the Parliament as a parliament that makes the laws on tape, we boast in the media that we have discussed here today how we will better protect the minimum wage of workers, so counterpart Buric will again boast that it is now 900 kunas of minimums and never greater increases than during the term of office of Andrej Plenkovic, and we do not care whether the competent authorities, inspectors and departments with the equipment they have, with the human resources they have, with an undeveloped network To determine who the employers are who do not comply with the provisions of the law and how to sanction them [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. Thank you.]] in practice. [[Agreement: Thank you very much, MPs.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59016	Please, let's stick to time. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivan You can see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59017	Honorable SS agents. I thank you for your attention and constructive discussion, and I think that today we have had the opportunity to go through this proposal in detail and I am pleased that part of the MPs and MPs have seen what is intended to be done and the positive elements of this proposal. In addition to improving the overall minimum wage system in the Republic of Croatia, this Law is the first step in implementing the measures to improve labour legislation from the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, which will provide the necessary resources to encourage even stronger economic growth and recovery from the negative consequences of the pandemic crisis. It is also an insight into the implementation of the national programme for the prevention of undeclared work in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the start of a more comprehensive reform of the working legislation to be followed, which will adapt the existing rules to the amended state of the labour market. The proposed changes will be the legal basis on which minimum wage growth and achievement are sought, what we were saying today, which is the assumed target of 50% of the gross average salary, as one of the programming foundations of this government. Recognizing the importance of social dialogue, we are particularly pleased that such a proposal is the result of very constructive joint work and agreement with our social partners. The solutions proposed in this Act will improve the minimum wage system in the Republic of Croatia, will further protect workers and will encourage collective bargaining as one of the highest values of the modern organisation of the labour system. I would just like to add a few more things that we may not have had today in a little more detail, which is that, with these really extensive measures in the area of job conservation, which really included over 700 thousand workers, we intend to invest another half a billion kuna by the end of the year in job creation measures, and then another billion and a half kuna in next year. So this is just one element of all of the efforts that he's been trying to achieve and that are still seen through these positive shifts that are here, you can also see through these 904 kuna increases in net minimum wage. I thank you once again for inviting you to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59018	Thank you very much. We've got one replica, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59019	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, in the light of this Law and through the norms of the law, it is a great emphasis on the fact that the minimum wage does not go to work on Sundays, overtime, holiday work and everything else. This Sunday's work on our political scene is every time the public gets excited and I absolutely put myself in a personal position that Sunday's work should be properly honored and that this should then be the relationship between employees and employers, but about that afterwards. With us the topic of working on Sundays or eventually banning work on Sundays or determining a number of Sundays, there is always no pre-election campaign and then the elections go through, and then somehow it is forgotten together, and not to say that the attempt to severely ban the state has been brought down several times in the Constitutional Court as an anti-constitutional category. So can you answer us if this law, at what stage is this law that you have announced several times, is it related to regulation of work on Sundays? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59020	Dear Secretary of State, you see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59021	As far as I'm concerned, I don't think there's a need for us to go out right now, it's the subject of talking to social partners, which we'll soon inform the public when conditions are made. I'd like to return focus today on what's the topic today, and that's a minimum wage. I think it's extremely important that all the supplements are, I would like to stress that once again, to remove from what is meant by minimum wage, and I think that the conditions have been created for other salaries to grow and what I want to say is that the minimum wage is constantly growing and what is the point of all today is that it will continue to grow because precisely with these solutions that we have attached to this bill we expect a continuation of the positive trends and capture of the result that is generally promised, and that is ultimately the average salary of 7,600 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59022	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. So let's go to the next point, and that's: - Final bill on confirming the statutes of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, second reading, P.Z. No. 158. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. That Article of the Rules of Procedure provides that the laws on which international contracts are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be adopted as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59027	I'd like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the Honorable MPs. It is before us as the chairman and said there is a final bill on the validation of the Statute of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. I'm just going to brief the introduction into matter. Therefore, it is a law of adoption to be met by one of the steps towards full membership of the Republic of Croatia in that bank, in respect of which the Banking Board of Governors approved the deadline for accession by the end of this year. The Bank itself is otherwise an international development bank based in Beijing, which is 2015. On the initiative of the Government of the People’s Republic of China, 57 countries have established it and has been operational since January 2016. As far as it is concerned, the question itself of what kind of international initiative this is, the word here tells us that, to date, membership for 103 countries has been granted, so almost twice as much, which puts the bank itself at the very top of international financial institutions, right behind the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which we are also members of. As far as the EU itself is concerned, 18 EU members are also members of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The purpose of the bank itself is to promote sustainable economic development, to create wealth and to improve infrastructure integration in that region, which represents as much as 45% of the world economy and 60% of the world population. The above objectives are achieved by investment in infrastructure and other manufacturing sectors. As for core capital, founding capital is 100 billion US dollars, of which 20 billion were paid, and 80 billion per call, representing one of the largest paid capital bases of international development banks and by the assessment of leading rating agencies, it has so-called. Triple A, that triple-A rating. As far as the law is concerned before us, we are in fact confirming the statute of the bank itself as an international contract in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article. 141. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The most important elements governing the bank's statutes of course what is really defined by the bank itself is the purpose and function of the bank, membership in the same, capital, business and operations and management structure, status, immunity and... and exemptions relating to the bank, general provisions in cooperation with members and others, so one roof document as well as any other society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia is not a signator of the statutes, it is only those at the outset of the regional founders' members, not even the other regional members, but since all the countries that later become bank members are obliged to join the Statute, as well as to accept the general conditions of the Board of Governors. Therefore, it can be seen from the very exposure that there are two governing bodies, one is the Board of Governors to which representatives of all Member States or representatives of the Member States and the Board of Directors go as one, one administrative, alone as the management of the bank itself. The Board of Governors has laid down the conditions for membership of the Republic of Croatia. This is the laying of an access to the statute no later than the end of this year, as I have already mentioned, enrolling up to 50 shares of the bank's core capital total of $5m. So that would just remind me of that core capital in which, in fact, part of that capital is being paid, and the rest is on call, and that payment we settle for the next 5 wars, each of which is $200,000, for which the funds are scheduled this year and then in projections for next year. We thus become a non-regional member of the bank on the date of payment of the first installment of capital. What I can ultimately say is that what are the advantages and why this one, why we approach. First of all, the biggest membership in this development bank will have Croatian companies that will make it easier for that membership to enter that market through participation in competitions within projects financed by the Bank in that region and beyond. What is really expected here is that Croatian companies themselves would not only have the opportunity to contribute to the exchange of goods between the Republic of Croatia and these meanings of the region but would also strengthen their references, and experience of participation in international competitions, which would ultimately contribute to further development of the economy through naturally multiplicity effects. So we can actually sum up this way that first of all we are sitting at a table from another 103 Member States not only in the regional part of Asia but also in the world, so one multilateral relationship that improves and improves, but here, we will also contribute by membership or we can contribute to the economic operation of the private sector and in fact strengthen the basis for resilience to the future crisis. This is because the bank can also finance projects in non-regional member states. In order to also become these can be projects aimed at supporting trade and linking with the home region including that transport part, the port transport links and the like that which is very important to us, given that we are also on the map not only of Europe but also of the world marked as a transition especially as regards maritime transport itself, we have one advantage. Of course, there is production and transmission of electricity, gas pipelines, therefore renewable energy sources and the entire energy system. So, first of all, there are three when we speak to the board of directors they choose on the basis of these non-regional members between the 3 existing constitutions that we choose to be in. And what might be also, in conclusion, good to point out that according to the criteria defined by the Committee for the Development and Assistance of the Organisation for Economic, Economic Co-operation and Development, 85% of the bank's capital is recognised as official development aid. Since we have set ourselves the goal of achieving the issue of 0.33% of gross national income for the purpose of precisely official development aid, this brings us closer to that goal. Here, next to this, I suggest that this final bill be supported and I remain free for any questions and discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59028	Here we have more replicas, the first respected MP Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59029	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, as you have stated, means membership of the Republic of Croatia would increase the visibility of Croatian companies in competitions in the framework of projects financed by the Bank, so I am interested in which sectors you specifically think, which Croatian companies specifically mean, since the bank mainly finance projects in Asia and the Far East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59030	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59031	Here, thanks to the investment of the banks themselves, they relate to the energy sector 21%, financial institutions 17%, the transport sector 15%, strengthening economic resilience 9%, the water sector 9%, liquidity 9% and the health sector 8%. With that in mind, Hungary applied this year for a certain loan related to the financing of the health sector's costs in the context of the Covida-19 pandemic and that is somewhere around 220m dollars approved in August. So it is also possible to finance our companies, our countries of course and thus our companies can participate in these development projects and apply to competitions that are of international character so it is certainly better to sit at the table, to have information and to be competitive than to be left aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59032	The Republic has a respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59033	Good afternoon. In fact, I wanted to ask something similar, do we have in mind exactly the specific companies that would be used, or which would be financed through the loan of this bank or plans, so some economic development through this bank, especially if we take into account this particular segment of infrastructure investment, means infrastructure projects of capital industrial projects which in some EU funds are said to say "no", so that I see some possibility here, correct me if I'm wrong to have some infrastructure projects, and you've already listed the meaning of transport, energy, and perhaps more specifically, which would be companies that would be interested in such a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59034	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59035	Thank you. It would be ungrateful to leave out some, certainly, when we look in general at some bank missions that are actually defined as financing infrastructure for tomorrow, these are some 4 thematic priorities of green infrastructure, integration and regional co-operation, so everything that can go in this direction and from energy, renewable energy sources, the connection of all possible transport, infrastructure projects and technologically trained infrastructures, it would be now again passable to mention a Roman, etc., so there is certainly the possibility of natural and mobilising private capital itself. This has been well diagnosed, for sure, that gives us the possibility of funding on what we cannot apply from European funds, but what is above all only about the state as a carrier, but above all our companies working in these segments and these activities to participate in these international and as part of the consortiums of international but certainly fully reporting for the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59036	The replica of the respected representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59037	Thank you, dear Vice President. The secretary of state, in fact, and through your presentation, has already been completed and answered the question that I wanted to ask by the end of your presentation, and in the answers to the replicas of MPs Peović and Vucilović means the state if I understand correctly, some public projects will be able to finance through this bank. And the second question is actually what I wanted to ask you is what are the technical steps now following the adoption of this Statute in the Croatian Parliament. If I understand it well by 31.12. the state has to pay those $200 million and then, what goes on, what are the steps, do we immediately become a full member of the bank or do we still have intersteps, does anyone else have to approve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59038	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59039	Here I thank you for having previously absorbed this, as far as this is concerned, what is important is that this law enters into force 8 days after the publication in the National Journal, we can then go and attach or report to the bank, of course, that we have entered into our legislative system that statute and that we can, we can, be these signatories of that Statute. After that, the country is called on to meet its commitments regarding the payment of the funds itself and from the moment of payment always and every year until that date, we are obliged to give the rest to those first million dollars, so $200,000 years this year and every year to meet that basic part of the $5 million, and practically we can already be, participate and choose that one constitution where we will be our likely representative of the state, probably the finance minister becomes also in the board of governors, and then participates in meetings... our ratio that is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59040	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59041	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Churay. In the past year, we've had a few laws here that regulate the business of the internal banking sector, so let me ask you about several specifics in Chapter 9. The bank, I quote, enjoys immunity from every form of legal procedure. No member, etc., etc., will file any action against the bank. The function of the bank, i.e. all its assets, has been freed from restrictions on the control rules and moratories of any nature. The Bank is exempt from any obligation to pay, retain or collect any tax or excise duty. He doesn't pay taxes on any kind of salary, income and expenditure. What does this mean for Croatia or do we give up what we have brought here for the internal banking system by introducing this bank into the financial and monetary systems of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59042	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59043	Thank you. Yes, also, you can find this on pages 23, 24, 25 of the material. First of all, this has the status of an international institution, as well as all other embassies, all other legal entities that are actually representatives of other countries. As far as taxation itself is concerned, it has more and more connections to the headquarters of the bank itself, which is in Beijing, which refers to the Chinese laws, so we would not have the possibility of taxing the same bank, given its headquarters and activity, so we do not give up any of our sovereignty, nothing more than other consular or diplomatic representations that enjoy the same trend today. So it's an international contract with equal international obligations, with all these doubts and all these possibilities being obtained just on the board of governors, where as a full member we have the right to ask a question and take part in the decision, of course and be at the table, which is certainly better than being on the side. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59044	Dear Representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59045	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I have to say, in your presentation, you're a little bit weird, you're a lock-key so nicely wrapped in a bow so you can't see the essence and essence. So, two MPs have asked you a very clear question as to which companies you targeted as companies that would benefit from Croatia's participation in the business of this bank, so I will point out, this is de facto one bank. A bank that will give its placements where it will be considered to be a particular benefit to it. The total commitment of Croatia is not $200,000 but one, you said in chapter No. 4, estimates and sources of funds needed to implement the law, so we get 50 shares of the underlying capital totalling $5 million, and our obligation is within a certain period of 1 million. So, if we see that those who could apply to projects, companies dealing with energy, transport, water sector, health care, I think only when we mention traffic, are, for example, on the minds of the Croatian railways and as a great Croatian loser, it's absolutely amazing to me that they could apply for some kind of projects. construction of railways in Asia. [[Thank you. Thank you. Dear...]] I'm asking who he is. Who has the benefits of this law? [[/Intruder:... State Secretary. Please.]] Okay. [[/Intruder: My colleagues, so how many times do I have to remind you?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59046	Only you break the time limit in 10, 15 seconds, so don't do that, please, come on in, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59047	Here, thank you. I hope it won't be in the manner that you've highly picturesquely called it, a strange beak, I'll refrain from the characteristics of respect for this House, so it's absolutely said 5 million is capital, of which one million is paid over the next 5 years, or 4 years with this year. The other 4 million is on call, there's nothing to argue about. As for the company, we don't expect it to be safe for HZ to come forward, but first of all, HH does not produce either locomotives or wagons or anything else it manages. They're companies that make it. In particular, here we are now like Đuro Đaković and Končar and other companies that have something to do with it, so somehow the logic of things requires that these companies will be possible if we talk about rail transport infrastructure, they report to such competitions, which I don't think... Of course, they are not the only companies dealing with exports, there are more and certainly by their activities they will be able to find, and it is our job to certainly distract them, allow them both our diplomatic and our activities in that bank [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's put it at your disposal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59048	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now speak the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilović, please. As part of the debate, which of course, I'm opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59049	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Before us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Statute of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which has its headquarters in Beijing. Based on the initiative of the Government of the People's Republic of China, the aim is to promote sustainable economic development, as the esteemed secretary of state has said well, and to create wealth, to improve infrastructure integration in the geographical area of Asia and Oceania and the Russian Federation by investing in infrastructure and other manufacturing sectors. Of course, we have to ask ourselves what Croatia's membership in the Banca brings to our citizens, that is, our economy has been my replica, and the question of the respected secretary of state because, as it says in the text, whether membership will increase the visibility of Croatian companies in competitions in all projects that the bank finances and is generally good at. We can't say that's not good. We can't say that's not desirable. But we have to ask ourselves what companies these are, what activities are we, how competitive are we exactly in these branches that the esteemed secretary of state listed, and basically how much is the trade between the Republic of Croatia and the region it covers and which this Bank is focused on, and ultimately, what are we, what are we going to do with the foundation of this membership? Let me remind you, the Bank's mission is to finance the infrastructure for tomorrow, which means that this is all that we often discuss in this House of Commons, harmonize laws with directives, regulations, and it's all about climate change, sustainable development, green transition, so we know more or less what it's all about. And we have to ask ourselves in this context, where are the Croatian companies? How much can we cover? Unfortunately, very little with the exceptions we always stress, but we often talk about this IT sector here, is it, but it makes 2% of our GDP. It is good and we have excellent examples both in Osijek and in Novska and here in the vicinity of Zagreb, in Istria, but it is a relatively small, small share and to increase 100%, again it is only 4% of our GDP. If we look at competitions for large infrastructure works, such as reconstruction of Croatian railways, Croatian railways, who are the most favourable companies? Chinese companies. Not homework. It is difficult then that some of our companies will increase their visibility based on membership because they are simply not pricey. If they are not competitive when it is necessary to reconstruct the section of the railway here to Karlovac, for example, how it will be in the Far East, China or Russia. No, they're not. Unfortunately not. After all, we all know that the Peljek Bridge is built by Chinese performers and Chinese companies. We cannot expect our companies to participate in major infrastructure projects in Asia, unfortunately this is far from what is realistic, regardless of how our construction companies were previously present in both Russia and Ukraine and numerous other countries. Today it's just not like that, it's saddening us, it's worrying us, but we have to accept it as a fact. If we look at exports in general and of course, I mean goods exports, not export services, where is mainly tourism, then according to DZS data for the first 6 months of the current year, export coverage is 66.1%, but who are our most important trading partners? These are EU countries, Germany, Italy and Slovenia, and outside the EU, they are BiH and Serbia. It's a reality. That's the facts. Of course, that doesn't mean we shouldn't keep trying, but now it's like that. So what is the current situation is that Chinese companies are extremely active and highly competitive on the Croatian market, they also participate with imports of goods from China to Croatia, but also in the realisation of major infrastructure projects. Of course, it should always be added that, within the framework of the National Recovery Plan and the Multi-annual Financial Framework, we plan to invest large funds precisely coming from the EU into the rail infrastructure. In Slavonia alone, a reconstruction of numerous railways is planned, from Osijek to Virovitica, I think, the fact is that trains drive at 60 km/h and that it is necessary, but also, we can expect there to be an even greater representation of Chinese companies in the future because they are priced most favourable, and as far as we can see, on the Pelješa Bridge, really respect the deadlines and do everything according to what was agreed. In addition, the text also states that the esteemed State Secretary has several times stated that it is necessary to sit at the table, i.e. that membership in the Bank will allow the Republic of Croatia to participate in the management of the Bank. Given our share, that's, I must say, a very bold claim. So it's in art. The 22 statutes state that each member of the Board of Governors has one governor and deputy governor, who serves the member who appoints them, and at the very beginning there is a number of members who are significant and participation in the management is present, but it should be pointed out that the impact on decision-making is very small and therefore also questionable. The largest number of shares has China, then India, then Russia and finally Germany. So that's four countries that have the highest share. Croatia, with its 50 shares of $5m, is not in the category. What we need to be aware of is that by confirming this Statute we are taking on a million-dollar financial commitment that will be paid in 5 wars and 4 million dollars that represent a potential commitment by the Republic of Croatia. And finally, let me just resume, it is crucial to specify that the Bank can finance projects in non-regional members, which Croatia certainly is. If they contribute connectivity to the region of Asia and Oceania. If it's to be judged by that, then we can expect Chinese companies to be present at these premises for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59050	Thank you. On behalf of the Homeland Movement, the Homeland Movement Club will now speak to the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59051	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So let's go through this text one more time. Where are these investments going to go? I read, ports, traffic connections, production and transmission of electricity and gas pipelines. What it does in a large percentage is, we can say freely, the strategic forces of a country. Let's just go back for a moment for a few basic geopolitical facts. For those of you who don't know a few days ago, we saw the news that Russia has completed the astonishment of its new missile shield, the United States and Great Britain are strengthening their military presence in the South China Sea area, obviously we're all aware of an entirely new geopolitical and geostrategic centre of this Earth globe or slabs as some claim. China has undoubtedly grown into a global force over the past ten years. A global force which, like any force, of course has only one vector, is a vector towards up, a growth vector, and that growth necessarily involves expanding into an area beyond its borders and affecting the economy, economy, and countries' policies, not only in the region, but this is what we can see globally in the case of the Republic of China. For all those who, as laity as I do, follow through the media or talk to their friends just a few examples. My friend has a company that sells lighting elements. It's very simple stuff, it's light bulbs, it's light bulbs, it's fluorescent tubes, it's ice lights and so, it's a similar thing that you might call very simple and irrelevant things for a country. Unfortunately, the transport of these same things from China that took over almost 90% of world production already mentioned irrelevant things over the past year has collected 4 to 6 times. The same thing is happening with iron, which is not only expensive but China has done a very good job of buying almost all the world's iron ore sources, thus establishing the domination of iron production, and iron is, if I'm not mistaken, what I just told you is very important for ports, traffic connections, production and transmission of electricity and gas pipelines. It should not, of course, be particularly intelligent to see that the People's Republic of China has an extraordinary quality meaningful and developed strategy that guides them, not according to global political domination, but certainly an attempt of a kind of economic domination. In that light, I'd like to take another look at this document that we're going to ratify here. There is no doubt that a small country such as Croatia cannot stop global changes, and let alone have a more significant impact on them. I quote from this document, bank membership would allow the Republic of Croatia to participate in bank management. Let me pull one sarcastic parallel, so approximately a pensioner has an impact on HZMO management. Thank you. As for that legal aspect that I am truly and deeply concerned about, thank you to Mr. Secretary of State for explaining that we are going to place this bank here in the position of an embassy, so it will be exterioral, it will be superpolitical. But let me tell you that this isn't an embassy, and the embassy knows what it does and what it's doing with an embassy. This is the bank, this is the bank that's going to bring huge money to these premises, and no doubt it won't bring it in because it's going to be poured out of the plane into our gardens and backyards, they're going to bring it here with the aim of fertilising it, which is perfectly legitimate because that's the end of it, and we're all dealing with it in our lives. But what I really care about is that when we enter diplomatic or any other correspondence or relationship, and the other is when one bank in a particular area is investing, it, of course, affects the economic, economic, political and any other state of the country it invests in. I will read once again a series of these sentences in Chapter 9 that speak of status, immunity, privileges and exceptions. The Bank shall enjoy immunity from any form of legal procedure, none of the Member States or any agency or body of a Member, or any entity or person acting directly or indirectly or carrying out claims by a Member or agency or the body of a Member will file any action against the Bank. The extent to which it is necessary for the effective implementation of the purpose and function of the bank in accordance with the provisions of this Statute which we are discussing here all assets of the bank are exempt from the restrictions on the control rules and moratories of any nature. I shall continue, the bank and its assets, assets, income and business, and transactions in accordance with this Statute shall be exempt from all taxes and all customs duties. The Bank is also exempt from any obligation to pay, retain or collect any tax or excise duty. No tax on any kind of salary, income and expenditure, etcetera, etcetera. What is quite certain is that such a bank, which is one serious bank, is, according to my assessment, active capital and the bank exceeds the 50-year GDP of our country, and therefore it is both frighteningly financially strong, but at the same time frighteningly politically influential. We will, of course, make this decision, become a non-regional member because we have to make an assessment, whether it will in any way bring well-being to our companies, and therefore, of course, to our people, to the people who live in this country. To that end, of course, the House of Homeland Movements Club has nothing against this, we just want to point out once again that as a small and modest country, we are once again, and history has shown us hundreds of times that we sometimes knew each other on the wrong side of an inexorable political wheel. Let's think about it. Let's put ourselves in a good position in all of this. Let's find out from this as a small factor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59052	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HDZ, and will speak the esteemed representative Marin Mandaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, respected secretary of state, together with a co-worker, we could hear in the opening presentation of the promoter but also through the presentation of the position of clubs.../incomprehensible/... what is this about. Here, the predecessor on this speaker Mr. Dretar who spoke on behalf of the MP of the Homeland Movement very nicely explained that. You're a little further away from how dry it might have been in the materials themselves, but you've actually got a good guess at what this is about. It was clearly written at the outset that in 2015 the initiative of the People of the Republic of China was founded by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which already has 103 members, we see a little bit where the impact is spread and where all parts of the world this bank has its own, has its own members. We heard that future public projects from the bank could be financed. Of course, as a small country that cannot affect global, economic, political and financial flows, it is important for us to have another alternative source, a source of funding. As for the opportunity for our companies, they will clearly have our company's chances. As little economy as we really are in terms of the global economy, we all know that we may be measured in differences. And it is not to be expected that our companies will go to China to build bridges, roads and railways, but that our companies can find individual market, market niche, technological niche. The auto roman companies and the future give God that we have as many as possible, I believe they can find their own, their market place both in the future and in the future world economy. Of course, a high level of expertise and a high level of technological knowledge, knowledge and skills is required. Of course there's talk about this bank and the expansion of this bank's memberships to that Chinese Road and Belt initiative, globally, globally, I'm not going to say that there's a disturbance going on, but there's a global shift going on. There, since the end of World War II, some 50 years have been a one-way story. It was known on which parallel all power and financial, economic, political on the parallel of North America - Western Europe. For the last 30 years, the stronger China opens, of course, the more everything changes. There's no longer a monopoly right now is a duopoly. If that duopoly will grow back into some monopoly on the other side, we'll see about that. And of course the Chinese story wants to have a strong financial institution behind it, as the mid-20th century story also had the World Bank and the IMF behind it, the Chinese story Put Silk wants to have behind it the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. And that everything, almost all of the countries in the world have collaborated with both the World Bank and the IMF, and it is expected that everyone will now turn around, as well as cooperate with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The U.S. is not members, of course, the most unsuitable to them, they lost that primate, that monopoly, but if we look at all their partners all of the Western European countries of Great Britain, Germany, France, Sweden, the Netherlands, Australia all became members of this bank. All the countries we want to look up to, the countries we want to be, of course, have turned to both sides. Once, as they view the Euro-Atlantic area, we see both the eastern and the Euro-Asian areas. And it's good, it seems someone noticed in the debates before me that we can't change the world's global currents, the question of how much we can affect them, but how much we can adapt to them, that depends on us. Of course, one of the opportunities is that through membership in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and how the Republic of Croatia and our companies get visibility and get an opportunity. The HDZ Club will, of course, support the bill on the confirmation of this Statute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59054	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59055	Fellow MPs and MPs, so I don't think there are politicians in Croatia who will oppose the involvement and relief of our companies and our economies, as well as states as such in some global economic and other political strategic changes and trends. However, I must say that I agree literally from word to word with all those arguments presented by my colleague Vukemilovic in the debate. I believe that its analysis was well understood by the professional public, and I will try to make it to the limits of simplification because these debates of ours are also being followed by citizens. These same citizens are very often frustrated with how little interest the parliamentary deputies show since the benches are often half empty and when we talk about some of our domestic laws, and when we talk about confirming international agreements that are under the Constitution, according to the Constitution above the law of the Republic of Croatia, then it is literally for not to believe the interest even more, even smaller. And this isn't about a classic international agreement, or an international institution that has some general universal value that then propagates around the world for which it stands and fights, this is about a single bank, a commercial commercial entity that aims to create and reproduce profits, as you well noticed. And the fact is that in this process Croatia will be a relatively small player and not slow down that what you put on paper, but the paper all suffers well sounds, well sounds, opening up opportunities for our companies to break into some new markets, to make their profits there, and thus strengthen both our economy and our country, but the question is who is the user. On repeated questions referred from the opposition order, we did not get an answer. And that's the only little detail where I don't agree with my colleague Dretar, he said, so let's adopt this agreement, and then we'll assess the benefits that we've had from joining this bank. Well, I think that we should have done this assessment significantly earlier, so see if it's worth it to Croatia at this point to take the obligation to pay one billion costs as much as we, excuse us, $200,000 in 5.5 consecutive wars. It seems to me that the responsible management of the state and its economic potential would require that we first and foremost strengthen our companies to be competitive when they come into the application phase for some of the projects this investment bank is offering. At that time, it would not have happened that both the proposer's representative and the representatives of the ruling parties on the issue, so who could be the one who is involved in the projects of this bank, so by letter and by number of one single company, is there really no other company at this time. My colleague, you are quite open and honest and unfortunately correctly saying that not our companies and that they are going to build bridges, railways or that technical part of those sectors for which this bank is operating, so the question is whether our financial potential of the public budget is such that for our companies right now this is a legitimate investment, it seems to me that it is not. And finally, right now on this day, I think it is unfortunately the right conclusion that the visibility of our companies on the Asian market will not increase Croatia's membership in this bank because all these Asian companies are already on our domestic market incomparably more competitive, more active and stronger, and it is expected that such an unfavourable trend for us, for our companies, will be unfavourable, in the future just continue and will, in the future, be stronger. So here I call for a debate, for one caution, I would like to say that without having this agreement and its financial weight actually having some kind of comprehensive public debate, I am interested in seeing that there is a certain international element in whether there is something in it that the president of the state has to say, whether they have something to say to our economy, so there is actually not one single word. Somehow, there's an impression, and it's quite the opposite of that transparency that you like to use as a flag and wave with it, that some kind of circle happened, some meeting don't give God on some yacht that our minister was on, so who noticed that there's now a minister sitting there, I don't know, Australia, Germany, Great Britain, and then our finance minister told me it's probably my place to sit there and be among them. So, apart from one new quite certainly reputationful and beautiful chairs and chairs for our finance minister and there's a potential benefit for the Roman company because right now, we don't seem to have any such technological niche, I don't see why our poor people would be very poor, and because of your policies, poor citizens and taxpayers finance this kind of membership fee in this bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59056	Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59057	Here in a rather atypical setup we will be the one in this below where I may try to defend this decision against this criticism heard from one other perspective purely by the one mentioned, but which may not be sufficiently highlighted that it is, why it is the Asian Investment Bank about an alternative source of funding, meaning that it provides some other types, I think it might provide some different types of credit and investment, but I must admit that I am not interested in as much Roman as the companies that are of the state interest that you mentioned, so in which we can expect at all that concept of the path and the Belt that created opportunities for different funding to be available to us, and therefore from that perspective that many EU funds really limit what these funds can be used for, so you literally have in some rules, so that such funds can not be used for structural policies, therefore, which would be really be useful to us. But I would only give a few information about the relationship between Eastern Europe and China that is quite important for this perspective. So Eastern Europe, relative to Western Europe, is definitely lagging behind, and the countries of Eastern Europe are somewhat neglected in terms of investment and development support by Western Europe and some of the countries of Eastern Europe are indeed turning more and more towards China, so we have direct Chinese investments in the area of Europe from less than $1 billion in 2008. It increased to $42 billion in 2016. Investment in the Greek port of Piraeus is one example of these Chinese investments as part of the initiative is one belt once. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The container traffic in Piraeus was 5 times higher than in 2010, and Piraeus is now the second container port in the Mediterranean behind Valencia. The EU has otherwise led Germany and France in recent years to put more and more rigorous and restrictive control of Chinese investment in the EU area, which is required to introduce the so-called application. industrial policies and public procurement rules that would limit what they say is unfair Chinese competition especially in competitions for large infrastructure projects. On the other hand, we must admit that it encourages the circulation of European and American companies where it can be observed again that they do not apply so-called. anti-dumping rules within the EU itself are subsidies, but they are indirect and so on. In short, it often also protects the position of Western capital, primarily, and uses pro-market and liberal rhetoric to limit this rise to a visible, dominant Chinese capital. The cancellation of concession tenders at the Rijeka port, for example, which would be one example that could be brought about in connection with the Port of Piraeus confirms that it was and not only the Workers' Front noticed but the real word of pressure was the mainstream media noticed that it was the pressure, the classical pressure of the United States and Europe that the Chinese consortium therefore made twice as much offer as the European bidders refused. So the final selection included the Chinese Corporation and the French-Croatian consortium APM Terminals. The Chinese consortium's offer was twice as good as the APM's in the amount of concession they had committed to pay means EUR 2 million in fixed concession annual fees as well as within a double period of time to build a second stage of the terminal, meaning within 5 years. No explanation has come, the immediate cancellation of the public tender, and it only happened one day before the deadline for selecting the best offer. From the port administration and from the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure did not come reasons, nor did the reasons for the cancellation of the tender be presented. Well, we can say that it has passed, but it has been evident and I say in the mainstream media that it has been said, however, that the classical pressure has recently been increased by the EU or the United States, which each in its own way struggles openly to limit access to European markets by the Chinese. In other words, the tender was annulled only because the Chinese company had offered the best conditions. On the other hand, as I have told the Chinese for some time, they have shown interest in the northern Adriatic as a road for Chinese goods towards Central and South-Eastern Europe, and have seen the entry into the port of Rijeka as an opportunity for additional jobs in the construction of transport infrastructure in Croatia, and thus the EU as a future railway railway line. On the other hand, we must say that the EU has already chosen a Chinese, Chinese labour contractors' company on the Pelješke Bridge has not looked with approval. Although Germany as well as other EU countries are calling for common European interests across from China, the question is whether these are common interests in the existing economic framework, which primarily uses the interests of the strongest European companies and countries. Otherwise, Chinese delegations spoke to representatives of Croatian authorities in the Republic of Croatia 10 years ago and were interested in investing in the Rijeka port, so up to some major talks, since the big talks, something has not started. I think there was probably a reason why the assessment of the Croatian authorities would not be seen with affection in Brussels and Washington. Now, not getting into whether we're for the Chinese model economically, I think we really need to be realistic here and notice that China is one big economic giant and that it's giving me a guess that in this offer, a slightly different offer of funding means that would be useful to us and that I literally mean to simplify things to take, take that position of non-classified, and simply look at both sides as partners. In any case, we are faced with the fact that we are part of a community, an EU community that has an unequal view of certain things or that some infrastructure capital investment of industrial policy is still limited, that I do not say therefore when I talk about the EU that it is not a fiscal community which would really be a community of equal and where these inequalities would ultimately be changed. So, in some ways, we agree to a slower development, and for now, it is considered common in the name of some European community which is certainly a good idea, and of course it is one community that can strengthen us, but we need to be realistic about what our framework is in that community. Realize the meaning and study what is offered by this economic Chinese model and question them, in fact, when we look at China and that success of China, therefore ask whether the policies of state interventionism and protectionism are key factors of the rapid economic development of China's rise in recent decades, however, something that we should study and be instructed to do, rather than unnecessarily accept uncritical integration into financial and economic flows in which we are clearly lagging behind and to fully liberalise trade and finance without any critical distance. Unfortunately, all Croatian governments have implemented non-critical and, this market liberalisation, privatisation, the withdrawal of the state from an active economic role, based on recommendations, we all know the requirements and conditions of international institutions such as the EU, the IMF, the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation. We see that the result of these policies is not the approximation of Croatia's most developed but the ever-increasing lagging behind. We all know that Croatia is the second poorest EU country, the destroyed industry, the privatised banking sector in the hands of foreign queens of foreign capital taken over by strategic companies, in telecommunications, in the energy sector, in food production. The purchasing power of the average salary in Croatia I think the same thing should be repeated today is less than, for 27% than in 1978, the data of economist Josip Tica, so we haven't made much progress since we joined the EU, emigrated 100 thousand workers, Croatia has come down to the market of foreign products based on uneducated and relatively cheap labour force, so I think we should take a critical look at it and send what is called socialism with Chinese characteristics to understand therefore differences in this state interventionism and protectionism and some of the certain benefits it carries so-called so-called socialism. cinema capitalism is what it is called a networked state-run and globally integrated hybrid form of capitalist development with the institutional incompetence of food, institutional engagements compensate some weak points in the important productive character of the political economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59058	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59059	I would like to thank the honourable Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. Just a brief review and maybe a few supplements. As to the reason why and why the esteemed representative Vucilović problemed himself with the question of interest in participating in such infrastructure projects by Croatian companies, the also respected representative Oreskovic has a little bit more of a problem with this and asks the question in terms of what is before chicken or egg? Namely, could we object here to say we don't have any air traffic because we don't have an airport? I think that would be logical. And then, on the other hand, if we go to build an airport, then we could say, "Why do we build when we don't have traffic?" So how do we have it if it's not there? What benefits Croatian companies can benefit from this if they are not in it. The question is what use they'll have if they're going to be. But it's just that something now that I can't have access to, and then it doesn't make sense, it's meaningless to me. The interest that has been given to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has come from two IGH companies and Končar who have a direct interest, and other companies that we may now be having problems with here, so maybe we're looking at the banal, maybe we're not that wide-ranging about investing and doing business. There are certainly companies that already export to Asian markets, Ericsson, Nikola Tesla, Concar, Energy Transformers, Altpro, for all innovative solutions already have in India etc., SuperControl is also mentioned, meaning basically one intelligent solution in certain industrial software sensors, etc., the whole IT sector, EGO Electro-components, Harburg-Freudenberger, for example from Belišč, these are companies that are already exporting, Dok-Ing etc., so there is, perhaps not in that number and what we would like, but in those niches where we can offer our brains and our knowledge absolutely yes and with this if it means that it will open any door then it is our obligation, and not some arbitraryness. The obligation because the same here would question why more than half of the EU are our neighbours, and we won't take care of our economies. Don't worry, I'm sure there'd be people out there who'd be troubled by the fact that we're sitting here doing nothing to encourage our exports. When we do that, we wonder why we do it, how people don't. Only with respect to the esteemed representative Dretar mentioned that the bank is not an investor, that bank is not an investor, it is a financier. We get two opportunities, that we for our investments find funding beyond our own opportunities, past Europeans, but we also go to this bank as a member for what the distinguished representative Peovic very well concluded that we have an alternative, we have an option. Who here wants to say no and why he wants to say it, for daily political reasons, because he's cemented in the opposition, so whatever comes must be against it if he gets a lot of media attention, the citizens will say bravo, here's something else, so no matter what... I'll make mine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a policy will not lead us anywhere and it is irresponsible and unserious. So a series of dams in the IT sector will certainly open their doors, doesn't necessarily mean they can, but absolutely if we do this, it won't be safe. And then I ask you from the beginning if it's a chicken or an egg, which we have to do first to get something? Our opinion, the opinion of this government, is that we must open up to our economies all possibilities for both our companies and our investment as well as all state investments to this alternative. Just like we had stories here about the LNG terminal in Omiseye, it's just invaluable. Yes, but by controlling it, you control the price of the gas market that someone else can't blackmail you, so by having this opportunity, for sure that different calculations on the financial markets will be different and ultimately just the question of membership, I didn't miss it, that we can go out at any time and then we buy our shares and get almost maybe all the money back. Nothing's cemented, nothing's safe, so it's arranged by this statute. So this is certainly one direction that we should provide our economies and our citizens with for a better quality of life and a better standard, especially in this part of the financing of certain infrastructure, infrastructure projects. Here I think with that more or less everything from the debate which was something more inconceivable covered, but of course I'm staying here to... questions and replicas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59060	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59061	Thank you, Chairman. Well, let me look back on yours as soon as it's a chicken or an egg. The answer is very simple, and I'll tell you through the question. Have you, before you have made a decision to refer to the House of Confirmation of this Statute, carried out any consultation, even if within the framework of the HGK which should first serve as an institution that must exist, which must have mandatory membership, as that body that somehow channels the wishes and needs of our economies and then suggests to the Government in which direction it should go. And please do not twist the thesis and intentions of the opposition. So no one's against it, but we all want to open the door for our masters, but not with this steam of yours. So, you promise one thing because you're always full of promises, and the implementation always shows something quite, quite another, I'm glad you've listed more companies now. Not just a German, but you didn't answer on the basis of my question. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59062	Dear Secretary of State, thank you very much, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59063	So it's impossible to call, all companies count. Absolutely an incentive for this has just given companies enquiries in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, consultations and insight into the very statute and work of the bank and the conditions and by making us 104 members. So it is illusory to expect that we are going into something without assessing what the benefits for and opportunities for the Croatian economy are. We can't guarantee anything and there's no guarantee here, we're just creating a possibility without which nothing will be and it's a duty and it's our duty. I'm glad you're okay with this. You can trouble whether it's going to benefit or not. That's an absolute question, but that doesn't mean that this doesn't have to go into it and that doesn't mean that this is done by some chair don't give God or anything else. It's very malice and malice. And it's not safe for the sake of the quality of the debate, but it's for the daily political purposes and the citizens see it. And this I certainly hope will certainly have It's used by our subjects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59064	The Republic also has a respected representative, Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59065	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Secretary of State absolutely what you said yourself is stopping any perspective of development and it would really be contrary to any healthy logic. There, I also thank my esteemed colleague Oreshkovic, who mentioned what I was about to say. But are we really going to help Croatian economies, companies or individuals in the placement of their products, ideas or services on these huge pro-positive markets if we should already have HGK for it in principle. The fact is $200,000 a year in membership to such a single organisation for a serious state really doesn't matter at all. Let it develop, let it move forward, we'll see what happens in the future. In agreement with you, let our dear friends from China come and see what goes on. Maybe we need to thank them a little bit for helping us build the Peljega Bridge, so let them come here and invest a little bit more in us. But I'll remind you if you just get a little information from the Croatian IT sector He's achieved, I'm finishing these seconds, global successes and without that famous investment bank that we're now discussing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59066	Thank you very much. Honorable representative, esteemed secretary, Secretary of State Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59067	Here, yes, first I say the initiative and the enquiries have already come from the businessmen. Obviously, it presents to them certain opportunities which, for those who are already working, who are exporting and working in those segments, it is above all the IGH and Končar who reported to the Foreign Ministry to make sure that something meant something to them, and I hope they will. We'll do whatever it takes to get involved. When you are at a source of information sure that you can easily communicate both roads and chambers of the economy, all interested economies, the competitions that have and those who are in the plan because sometimes not enough just say open competition is open, but you should know something that is planned, which is invested because when someone asks for financial help, then a loan must be attached to a specific plan. When you sit there you get this information that someone is planning something to do and already certain bilateral relations can be established with the states and continue to be related to economic diplomacy. So surely that information will be useful for us to develop what is meaningful our economy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59068	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now go to the next point, and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure is based on Article 247. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint discussion be held on the following 2 points, namely: - Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol relating to the amendment of Article 50.(a) Convention on International Civil Aviation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 156 and - Final proposal of the Act confirming the protocol relating to the amendment of Article 56. Conventions on International Civil Aviation, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 157. Are you agreeing to conduct a united discussion? Thank you very much, everyone seems to be agreeable. Since there are no objections, we will conduct a united debate. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That Article of the Rules of Procedure provides for the laws to be adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts as a rule of one reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59071	... I warmly welcome you all. [[Specially enabled.]] These laws confirm the protocols relating to the amendment of Articles 50 and 56. Conventions on International Civil Aviation. In aviation known as the Chicago Convention. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.(a) the Convention is amended in a way that the number of members of the International Civil Aviation Organisation Council is increased from 36 to 40. The Council is concerned about the body of an international civil aviation organisation that corresponds to the Assembly. The Council currently consists of 36 Contracting States elected by the Assembly. The Council shall, among other things, submit annual reports to the Assembly, implement the instructions of the Assembly and fulfil the obligations imposed on it under the Chicago Convention, manage the financial operations of the International Civil Aviation Organisation in accordance with the provisions of the Chicago Convention, determine and publish information relating to the improvement of air navigation and operations in international civil aviation, inform the Contracting States of any violation of the Chicago Convention, as well as any failure to comply with the implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the Assembly, and adopt international standards and recommended practice in accordance with the provisions of the Chicago Convention. Art. The 56th Convention is changed in a way that the number of air navigation commission members is increasing from 19 to 21. The Air Navigation Commission is currently composed of 19 members appointed by the Council among the persons proposing the Contracting States. These persons must possess appropriate abilities and experience in the theory of aviation practice. The Air Navigation Commission shall consider and propose to the Council the adoption of an amendment to the Chicago Convention, set up technical sub-committees in which any Contracting State which so wishes may be represented, and shall advise the Council to collect and forward all information to the Contracting Parties it deems necessary and useful to improve air navigation. The initiative to initiate the procedure for amending the number of members of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the Air Navigation Commission was launched by a group of Contracting States, resulting in a council recommendation to the International Civil Aviation Organisation Assembly to adopt the proposed amendments. At its 39th meeting in Montreal on 6 October 2016, the International Civil Aviation Organisation Assembly adopted decisions amending Article 50a. and the 56th and Conventions as previously described. By adopting these two laws, the provisions of those Protocols shall hide part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia in the sense of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 141. The Constitution of the This procedure is the formal consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by the provisions of these protocols on the basis of which this consent will also be expressed at international level. The protocols themselves only take effect when they are confirmed by 128 States Parties to the International Civil Aviation Organisation, representing a two-thirds majority compared to all 193 States Parties to this organisation. So far, 60 Contracting States have confirmed the protocol from Europe, 34 of which have notified the International Civil Aviation Organisation's secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59072	We have several replicas, the first respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59073	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So the RH is back in 1992. become part of the Chicago Convention or the Convention on International Civil Aviation. It is therefore a member of the UN Agency of International Civil Aviation, whose composition we are discussing today. So the number of members would increase from 36 to 40, and in the second draft of the law, members of the commission from 19 to 21 members. I wonder if the Republic of Croatia is a member of the council as a permanent body and a member of the committee that we are discussing today or how, as Croatia participates in the work of the council, are we satisfied with the membership of those benefits that we have or do not have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59074	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59075	So members are grouped by country and by group and by interest. Croatia became a member of the ABIS group, which is then eventually members of this council, and in this group are Austria, Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Luxembourg and Switzerland. According to this rotating principle, Croatia could propose its member to the Council in 2031, but normally this group acts regardless of whether the Croatian member is inside or not and the group then represents the interests of these countries. So if Croatia shows its interest, it will have its member in the Council from 2031 to 2034 and from '34. until '37. in the Commission of air navigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59076	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59077	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, and thank you to my colleague, because in some ways the code we agreed on is a replica, so mine is a similar question. How many commissions do we actually have, or how many boards and subcommittees, how many members do we have in these technical subcommittees? Here is part of the answer to this which I was curious about whether we are a member of some group, in which we are delegated representatives, as they are elected, you have now answered what years we are expected, so at least here is this part of how many commissions and subcommittees are there and how many members we actually have all together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59078	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59079	Thank you. International civil aviation organisations and, as they have in the board of the Air Navigation Commission, the Air Transport Committee, the Joint Support Committee, the Financial Committee and the Committee on Human Potentialness, and the Committee on Disruption and the Committee on Technical Cooperation. So within this organisation, Croatia will nominate its members and participate in the work of all these bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59080	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59081	Thank you, Chairman. Somehow it was created long ago that HS practice to think very little about the content of international contracts and in principle I consider it a very bad practice and a very irresponsible practice by our parliamentary representatives. So if you are not already having a proper debate, I would ask you to explain to us what are the reasons why the number of council members is increasing from 36 to 40 and from 19 to 21, and especially considering what you said about Croatia is a member of a group, which means that the group represents the interests of all the Member States and groups that are mutually, you will agree with me, very, very different. It is also an opportunity to even talk about how the Republic of Croatia protects the interests of its civil aviation and the companies that operate in the sector. And what interests me in particular is that almost never in public is heard or in political discourse, who are actually Croatian members on the committees you listed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59082	Dear Secretary of State, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59083	Well, in any case, the countries inside that make the biggest contribution to the functioning of these bodies are Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States. So those states that have the most developed air transport. Accordingly, they are the most involved in the financing of this organisation, but on the other hand there are a number of countries that have their own interests. First, for the sake of its interest, it also works for the geographical representation of a whole series of countries and is obviously a great interest in participation in the work and therefore increases the number of members. That's the main answer I find difficult to comment on further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59084	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the first representative of Croatia Zekanovic will speak, is not there, is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59085	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And so through this short series of replicas, in fact, we've talked to Mr. Secretary of State about everything that needs to be said. However, I would point out once again that we may at times pay too little attention here in this high house to these international contracts, or to the obligations that we make through them. This time and as a member of the board yesterday we discussed it on the parliamentary committee, we have absolutely nothing to say but once again to underline the fact that the countries that the respected gentleman has listed to us that have the most developed and, of course, the most numerous air traffic is in some and leading positions. We're just here to defend our voice, which is absolutely fine and necessary. We also know from this Covid himself who has had an exceptional impact on aviation of any kind, whether commercially or otherwise, on his profits and all that, we are at a difficult time, I believe that our representatives in that home will know, that is, our interests in that body. But what's interesting, here's a very interesting question of the respected representative Oreskovic who these people are, where they come from, and in fact how they represent our interests I think. The Department of Homeland Movement Club has absolutely nothing against ratification of such a document, but here it could have been just a moment more transparent, but let's move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59086	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Nikola Mažar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59087	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Reiner, the Honorable Secretary of State Mihotić with an associate as we have heard, so we have two final drafts of the law confirming the protocol relating to the amendment of two articles, Article 50.(a) and Article 56, given that this is our point and agenda at today's session, I will also look back a little on the history of the role of the Republic of Croatia itself in this Organisation of International Civil Aviation and express certain legal acts on which we apply the rights set out in these protocols. So, the Convention on International Civil Aviation itself is more famous and as the Chicago Convention is an international contract drawn up in Chicago on 7 December 1944. It entered into force on 4 April 1947, following the receipt of 26 instruments on ratification, and since 9 May 1992, the Republic of Croatia has, on the basis of an approach.../incomprehensible/... of the Convention on International Civil Aviation or of a member of the International Civil Aviation Organisation established by the same Convention for the development of the principle, technology and the promotion and development of international civil aviation. The convention today counts 199 states of parties. The Convention on International Civil Aviation contains 96 articles that justify the rights and obligations of all signatories countries, enable the adoption of international standards and recommended practices in the field of air traffic, recommend the construction of navigation devices in signatories countries and propose a better organisation of air transport by reducing customs and immigration formalities. Member States shall adopt the rules as their national rules, unless they are able to publish the differences. The International Civil Aviation Organisation also obliges Member States to provide legislation and regulatory conditions for the control of their aviation system. Exceptionally with regard to the security management system. The Croatian legal framework governing the area of aviation security is a combination of European and national regulations. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure shall be responsible for the entire civil aviation policy of the Republic of Croatia, establishing a national strategy for civil aviation development, representing the Republic of Croatia in international and European civil aviation organisations, signing and implementing bilateral and multilateral civil aviation contracts, etc. The basic laws governing the area of air traffic in the Republic of Croatia are the following: the Air Transport Act, the Airport Act, the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, the Law on the draft Croatian Air Navigation Control, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, which has partial application. Under these laws, a large number of sub-legislative regulations governing the area of air traffic and regulating all areas not covered by the laws have been adopted. The Republic of Croatia is a large number of international conventions and bilateral agreements which are in force, as regards air transport such as the Convention on International Civil Aviation, which we are talking about today but also the Convention on International Recognition of Air Law, the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Restraint of the Abuse of Civil Aviation, the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Irregular Acts against Civil Aviation Safety and the Convention on the Restraint of Illegal Acts against Civil Aviation Safety, the Regulation on the Ratification of the Convention supplementing the Warsaw Convention on the Equality of Certain Rules in International Air Transport by another person, and not the Contracting Carrier, Decision on the ratification of Appendix 1 amending the Convention on the Equality of Certain Rules on International Air Transport signed in Warsaw, a decision on the ratification of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention on the International Convention on the Convention on the International Convention on the Protection of Convention on the International Transport of Officials of Officials of Officials and on the Conventions of the Conventions of the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Finality of Accessions of the Conventions of the Convention on the Convention on the Conventions of the Convention on the Conventions of the Conventions of Accessions of the Conventions. As we could already hear, at its 9th meeting of 206th session held on 20 November 2015, the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organisation discussed the proposal submitted by the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with the aim of amending Article 50.(a) Chicago Conventions which would increase the number of seats in the Council from 36 to 39. The Council then agreed in principle that the number of council members could be increased. At the 13th meeting of its 207 meeting held on 11 March 2016, the Council decided to recommend to the International Civil Aviation Organisation Assembly that its membership be increased from 36 to 40 members. Following the above, the Assembly adopted Decision A39-5 at its 39th session amending Article 50.(a) The Chicago Conventions in a way that increases the number of members from 36 to 40 and which the Assembly invites all Contracting States to ratify the Amending Protocol of Article 50.(a) Chicago Conventions. Also, at its 9th meeting of its 206th meeting held on 20 November 2015, the International Civil Aviation Council discussed the proposal submitted by other countries to increase the number of air navigation commissions from 19 to 21. The Council then agreed in principle that the number of members of the commission must be increased. At the 13th meeting of its 207th session held on 11 March 2016, the Council decided to recommend to the International Civil Aviation Organisation Assembly that membership in the Air Navigation Committee should be increased from 19 to 21 members and adopted by Decision A39-7 at its 39th session, which amends Article 56. The Chicago Conventions in such a way as to increase the number of air navigation commission members from 19 to 21 and which the Assembly calls on all Contracting States to ratify the Amending Protocol of Article 56. Chicago Conventions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Convention on International Civil Aviation in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and shall confirm the Protocol amending Article 50. (a) Convention on International Civil Aviation in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This Protocol shall amend Article 50. (a) Chicago Conventions in a way that increases the number of council members from 36 to 40. In view of all that has been stated both by the proposings and by colleagues and co-legislators, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposals of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-16-0.u59088	Thank you very much, I am concluding a debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We're done with today's work, we'll continue work tomorrow on Friday 17th September at 9:30 p.m. and the first point will be the Proposal for a Law on settlements, first reading, P.Z. Number 171, and before that we will complete the agenda. Have a nice rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 15.47 hours. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Majda Buric will speak, please.
