ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71512	Good morning, colleagues and fellow MPs. In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 9th session with 6 new points to this: - Proposal for a Budget Law with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 227 - Final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 175 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, first reading, P.Z. No. 228 - Proposal for a Act supplementing the Civil Protection System Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 226 - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosovo and - Proposal for a Decision establishing an investigative committee to determine the effectiveness of the functioning of the EU funds and to monitor possible irregularities, illegal actions and corruption The proposal for a supplement to the agenda has been submitted to you by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 1. of the proposed supplement. Now, the Proposal for a Budget Act with the final draft law in accordance with Article 206(1). My rules of procedure determine that this is legally included in the agenda by emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 9th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71526	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Mrak-Taritaš, who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71527	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. And so exactly 20 months and 4 days after the earthquake in Zagreb and neighbouring counties resigned Mr. Damir Vangelic, director of the Reconstruction Fund. Where was he? Nowhere. What did he do? Nothing. This resignation is another stone in that vast mosaic of the incredible shame of Plenkovic's government and HDZ, which is called recovery after the earthquake. At the very beginning, when after months and months of thinking finally presented the Law on Reconstruction, it was quite clear that the fund does not serve anything, just as this bad and unimplementable law does nothing. The fund is one of those phantom unnecessarily unnecessary bodies that pile up whenever there's something to be done and someone else to hire. He got a name, office, design, website and director. This director is presented as a serious player from the real sector, and now he's going to put it all together and things will start when you say hop, except he didn't put anything together and nothing's going to go wrong. You remember maybe that early phase of the fund, we found out back then that the prime minister had other plans for him. The idea was to be HDZ's candidate for mayor of Zagreb. He had all predispositions, a civilised act, a career in the economy, and now he will rebuild Zagreb, except he has not renewed Zagreb, and he has made another cardinal mistake, he refused to offer Andrej Plenkovic publicly through the media, but he did not realize that it was an offer that was not rejected. I don't know if that's why it all definitely went down the hill or maybe it's not so easy to run serious projects in public administration even when you think you have experience from a company. But in any case, it didn't happen, it didn't start, but unfortunately it won't start. What little is being restored is being done by people themselves, by those who can organize it and who can afford it, and for the rest, no one ever asks. So what was this useless fund doing under this unusable law? He should've served as a springboard for local elections, I already mentioned that. Besides, he ran some psycho tests for future employees. That was priority number one anyway. Maybe one psych test should take all of us who have suffered for years and watched a handful of our pals laugh in our faces for our money. What the fund was doing most was fighting with the minister, shooting two incompetent people through the media that we watched almost every day, recording its own failures, its own incompetence, unhappiness and ignorance, those two from the same institution because don't forget that at the top of the website and all documents the Fund writes to the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property for more than a year. He should have, I shouldn't have, they're guilty, it's not our fault, and then the other side answers no, we're not guilty, they're supposed to, and they're not, they're mean and they're lying, we're gonna sue them, the two boys in the sandbox in kindergarten. This was the level of public communication between the two people responsible for rebuilding after the earthquake, and during that time people in containers enter the second winter. The Law on Reconstruction, the Fund for Reconstruction and Reconstruction, is the biggest shame of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. It's the biggest shame of any government anywhere in any time that after months and months of thinking, you bring yourself an inconclusive law, and then for years now, because you've been at stake for years now that the renewal can't begin because the law is like, inconclusive, the law that you've passed. I don't know how people put up with that laugh in the face anymore. Flights for a billion euros are overrun by Zagreb, and people in unrenewed houses are afraid that since that low flight, these frightening machines will be broken off by another piece of wall or façade. And we can, with the provincial sneezing of foreign statesmen, pretend that things are going well, but the restoration after the earthquake shows they're not going. It shows that the government of Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ is unable to do any serious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71557	And yet in the extensions, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic appeared to be the position of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A sport term in extensions, but not about anything less important. In fact, yesterday, we had to be witnesses to the experience, will and arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, not by my good friend and colleague, Furi Radin, Vice President of the Parliament, but by one of the vice-presidents of the HDZ. And I dare say, or I can speculate only on the motivation for such a procedure is that it does not want to hear what is to be said, so I will repeat it again after this speaker with a clear message, arbitrary and arbitrarily interpreted by the Rules of Procedure of HS you will not silence us and will not prevent our message from coming to the public and coming to all those who need to hear it. And that's the fact that we colleagues and colleagues spent most of the day yesterday discussing reforming the social care system and also the foster system and the fact that we have first-class citizens, we have fellow citizens and second-class colleagues. What the social state should do, and that is not to make a difference between our citizens, which is to protect those who are more vulnerable, and that is to help those who need help, I fear that this reform will not achieve it. What am I talking about? When we talk about fostering, when we talk about adoption, when we talk about lessons that we like to hold in the region, about respecting our institutions, first of all I think about the Constitutional Court, then we should show by example that we respect what our courts say and what judgments they make. It's about fostering and adopting children, colleagues and colleagues now as I speak this data is from last year, but I don't think it's more important that it's changed, more than 3,000 young people waiting for home, waiting for family, waiting for parents, waiting for someone who will love them both in this and in the way of life to support them. Why some decide or do not decide to adopt, it is a purely personal matter of each individual or individual, each community being that marriage, that community being another, that community being both sex, and so forth. But what we have failed to do and what we do not do is continue to insist on it, or insisting that the judgments of the court are not incorporated into the law. Yes, the court said that the current law is fine, but that it should be in spirit, so when applications for foster care are filed or adoption that it should be interpreted in spirit that everyone can be. However, the situation is in practice, and we could see it from a number of cases that we could read about in the Croatian public that it was not so and that the decision to adopt or adopt by some same-sex couple, or civil society, two people, regardless of their sex, actually belongs to the assessment and decision of an individual. An individual who is most often not even an expert, an individual who can be some to be people's chat, so some bureaucrat, not an expert or someone who will really assess whether the child in that new family will be better off, whether he will have a better chance than if he is not adopted or adopted, etc. We've made a difference again, we haven't evened all our citizens in front of the law, because most of them I believe will vote it out, I don't think that's good. The laws, though, are in the first reading, we will have the opportunity to see if the proposal will change them until the second reading, but the fact is that the ruling majority, and here above all I think of HDZ is hypocritical because in the European Parliament, the European People's Party advocates some other values and quite other views than they are often articulated by colleagues and colleagues here in HS. I think that even coming from the left-hand side of the assembly, no matter which party they belong to or not, but that all the messages that our colleagues and colleagues who are close to us are world-famous who speak to us in the European Parliament can be repeated here without shame and without shame and without fear that they will be misread or there'd be something we didn't say or live. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71581	Thank you very much. Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Zdravka Busic, will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71582	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday was a significant day for the Republic of Croatia, a major step forward in improving cooperation with the French Republic, not only, and not only from the defence-strategic aspect, but also from political and economic. The government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic brought France closer to the European family, globally strengthened its position and opened the door to future alliances and better positions in measuring forces. However, the fundamental key aspect of yesterday's success of the Croatian government is the fact that Croatia has shown its commitment to care for itself in its own safety because it can and it will, and the safe state is a prerequisite for future investment, improving the economic situation and cooperation, and ultimately, its economic and general development and progress. Yesterday's visit to the President of the Republic of France, Mr Emmanuel Macron, laid the foundations of a stronger and better-quality future cooperation, which was carefully planned through the existing mechanisms of the Croatian-French Strategic Partnership and numerous additional mechanisms and initiatives. The visit also confirmed that Croatia and France share common security and stability interests in the Western Balkans area, and this is particularly important for Croatia because of our immediate neighbourhood. President Macron and Prime Minister Plenkovic also stressed that BiH will focus specifically. As chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, please let me mention here that with the Government of the Republic of Croatia a significant contribution to improving cooperation and understanding for decades of contributions and contributed to the Croatian emigration in France, which President Macron also spoke of yesterday in his address. In his address, President Macron also looked back on that ancient past when Croatian soldiers in France brought their decorative clothing to France, namely the doorknob which was later accepted by the French as their fashion detail in clothing, so that this ruble of Croatian soldiers enters the French language under the name "cow" of the word "croat". Yesterday, it was also heard that despite the fact that the Croatian diaspora in France is not as numerous as in other European or overseas states. The Croats in France are extremely successful, well-organised, active and appreciated because they make an outstanding contribution to the economic, scientific, sports and cultural life of France, and thus to their Croatian homelands. During the war, but also in the post-war period, even today, with their actions and reputation, Croats in France are making every effort to make the best possible connection between our two countries. And lastly, I would stress that yesterday's day is a significant step forward in the French Croatian relations, thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by President Plenkovic, who has made an extraordinary effort and engagement in the realisation of this strategic partnership between France and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71652	We will now move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first reported was Mr. Ivan Penava in front of the Democratic Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71653	Chairman, thank you very much. The topic of my free speech will actually be one very important moment that is happening in Croatia these days, and of course it is about shutting down the company and the economic collapse that is happening throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, these days we all testify that in the Republic of Croatia galloping inflation is everywhere and that the cost of all the inputs increases rapidly, i.e. the cost of production. The sky under the clouds raises prices for the electricity, gas, fuel, labour costs. All of us, unfortunately, in continuity for years has made it extremely uncompetitive compared to our immediate environment. How it happens. One eclectic and best example I'm going to try to explain is an example of fuel prices. For example, fuel prices that depend on the type of production, very high cost for most companies and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian public must know that the price in the Republic of Croatia is formed in a way that only around 1/3 of the price of fuel, whether we talk about gasoline or diesel, makes the purchase price plus all the costs of the supplier. So just 1/3 of the fuel. Fuel prices. While 2/3 of that cost is spent on excise duties and taxes taken by the Republic of Croatia. Hypothetically, that would mean that in Croatia suppliers would work for 0 kuna, and if they didn't pay for fuel at the gas station or lipe, all of us but also entrepreneurs would have that fuel, that one liter in the Republic of Croatia cost 7kn. Or otherwise, for each liter of fuel that we buy today 7 kn, or practically 1 euro we deposit at the expense of the State budget. How tragic, funny this situation will best tell you that the price of fuel enters, i.e. the state calculates excise duty, compensation for Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian railways and what it does. Then 25% more VAT on all these excise duties, so even the part on which the state signed up as a excise duty, in the form of excise duties, in the form of the state and in that part, 20% of the taxes still add up. What does that mean in practice? It means that, according to today's Croatian Autoclub, it is expressed in euros of diesel liters in Croatia euro and a half, for example, works in BiH about 3 kuna less, 1.1 euro, Czech Republic 1.3 euros, Bulgaria 1.1 euros, Austria can imagine 1.3 euros, even one Germany has more favourable fuel than Croatia. When you add it to that only the route of the County-Split which you will pass for the transport of goods or travel or, or a business meeting that will cost you more than a vignette in a year you will buy in Switzerland. Why is that happening? Because the state apparatus is bulky, non-productive, because economic regional fiscal policies are lagging behind, which are aimed at the economy and the rest of the people. The consequence of this is unfortunately these days we witness the closure of the Boxmark Leather from Gornja Vrba and 259 street workers, the Broding Institute in Zagreb and its closure, Đuro Đaković in October 150 jobs in Slavonski Brod closure, Orljava in Požega in August closure, in other words we close the state and Slavonia together with her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71677	You, too. In the end, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will present the positions of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71678	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We live in an interesting time. A few 10 years ago or 100 years ago, information spread in a simple way from ear to ear, people would be in the fields, exchanging information. In cities in the city squares, someone would read some notices that the ruler of that country and that city would have to order to the population. However, today at the time of the electronic media, information is being changed in social networks as on tape. Every day, not every day, every hour and every minute of information changes. And not only do we receive information today but everyone can also be a news creator, each with the help of this little device can publish whatever they want and almost wherever they want, each of them can own their own website, their Facebook pages, their YouTube channels, their Instagram channels, the Gepcanal, the Telegram channels and there speak and spread information and disinformation. Here's me from this place I want to warn you of this problem although we must say that neither myself nor I personally nor here we Croatian sovereigns have found a solution for this, but the problem is very obvious. The problem isn't information. It's misinformation. The problem is this cacaphony of information. Of course, we are, we were and we will be for freedom of the media, for freedom of expression. However, as we explain today in 2021, here we go in '22. within a month, there are hundreds of thousands of people, even millions of people in the world, in the most developed countries of the world who believe, for example. that the country is a flat panel, which some scientific facts are founded, which are included in school programs and long ago, they dispute. So we have one problem that every society, serious society, and I hope that Croatian society is a serious society, must begin to solve or take care of them. That would be one part of my presentation just so that those who follow the HS sessions here might think a little bit about these words that tomorrow here's how we sort of try this information and misinformation problem to start solving. Another problem, one specific one, although I repeat the cacophony of information both colleagues have talked about before, and it is extremely important to have the reconstruction problem. When I say rebuilding, I don't mean post-war reconstruction that's done as well as any quality, I'm thinking about rebuilding after the earthquake. So, unfortunately, we had an earthquake in Zagreb, then an earthquake in Banovina, but two years passed by from those confluent first 80 million immediately, so later if I'm not mistaken for 500 million euros, Croatia didn't get the money with which it could restore everything that was lost, and yet if I'm not mistaken, the cost of the renovation is almost 100 million kuna, excuse me, 100 billion kuna. So all we get from the EU for reconstruction is about 20-30 times less than what Croatia needs. We can criticise the Croatian government for this and for what is subjective, however, if the current Croatian government has failed to make an appointment just in the renewal. I'll even say that almost nothing's been done. If you walk a little bit, you do not have to ić to Banovine, here are all of you here in Zagreb, and we are all business for Zagreb, take a walk around the center of Zagreb, go to any Haustor, we would say in Dalmatia port, in the center of Zagreb and see what these buildings look like. So Zagreb is a disfigured city, Zagreb is a city in which the centre cannot live today. Unfortunately, there is nothing in this matter, and so is the resignation of Mr Vanjelic, who was in charge of rebuilding after the earthquake, so this is a problem that is crucial and a problem that needs to be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71700	Thank you. Mrs. Andreja Maric will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71701	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The fourth wave of covida-19 bouquets, for weeks we count several thousand new infected daily, even more than 7,000 daily, more than 10,000 people died because of covida-19, the health system is shooting at hospital seams are congested with a wave of unvaccinated people, no covid patients are reduced to regular health care, except of course emergency, healthcare professionals fall off their feet. The 641st day as the pandemic was declared in the Republic of Croatia, health workers were almost so mobilized, we had enough, separated from the family with numerous duty and shifts, many overtime hours even more than before because we were missing and before the pandemic we burned for our patients, daily we face too many deaths, dying people who had previously been healthy, without comorbidity or citizens who should not have died with their accompanying diseases, that there was no Covida. And what are we experiencing? Insolents spit on us and insult us on social networks and portals, in protests, they call us Satanists and mercenaries, colleagues, MP Penava talks about bioterrorists. Is that what we deserve? We expect an apology from our colleague, and anyone who disagrees with our calls, requests and appeals to bring together the pandemic as soon as possible, please refrain from unnecessary insults and defilement. I appeal to the largest number of vaccines, to test ourselves and to follow the prescribed epidemiological measures because without it, we have no way out of the pandemic. The political part about the work of the Staff and the Government is left to us who are talking about it anyway, we criticise, we propose solutions where we should, in the Parliament and other institutions. Listen to the profession and scientists, dear citizens. Today we already know a lot more about this virus than we did at first. Protests are not prohibited, they are part of democracy, everyone has the right to express their attitude and opinions, those who do not want to be vaccinated for some of their reasons because they think it's chipping, poison, experiment, conspiracy theory, etc., so no one is forcing them. Those who have not been vaccinated so far because they are afraid, have reservations or questions due to their comorbidities, side effects, consult your doctors, we are all at your disposal. But it's terrible that there are two parallel worlds, one in hospitals, where many patients fight for their breath, and employees for each patient and another world, where under the cover of the emphasis of personal freedoms, they forget that individual freedom has a limit when committed to restricting the freedom of someone else or when they say that only 0.1% died. Ten thousand dead people in the Republic of Croatia are all you? The protesters did not respect the epidemiological measures, the organisers did not report the protest, so they did not respect the laws either. We all have rights, but also obligations and responsibility. The people are not only citizens who supported the protests, which is their legitimate right, but they are also people who adhere to measures, split, test, the people and 70,000 health workers and social care workers, etc. The manipulation of citizens, the carrying out of false and incorrect thesis is, at the very least, incorrect, irresponsible, and even dangerous. Many citizens who do not want to be vaccinated or tested, and even some of our fellow MPs who support them with their statements and deeds, are waving the thesis that vaccines are also passing the virus on as well as unvaccinated ones, so why don't we test everything. It's simply because it's too expensive and organisationally inconclusive and it's not even richer countries than we can afford. If we want to reduce the epidemic, we will not first target the vaccines that carry much less the virus, but the unvaccinated which are still many. Of course, be sure to receive a third dose due to a fall in immunity after 6 months. The colleagues from the Most and their chairman of the Health Council, the doctor, say all of this, but they don't listen to it, precisely because, to the minimum extent possible, the mantra measures and doubts about the fact that healthcare professionals are spreading the virus to patients, that the vaccines carry the infection as well as the unvaccinated ones, I asked Minister Beros on the subject to accept my proposal that at least 2 weeks of testing is done in health institutions of all, on the one hand vaccinated, on the other side of the unvaccinated, twice a week so that we can see how positive it is in which group and what is further to do. The calculation says, if you test 70,000 people in the health system over 2 weeks 2 times a week, that's 4 tests per person, times 50 kuna, we count that 80% has been vaccinated, 20% is not, we're testing them anyway, so 56,000 people, that's an additional 11.2 million kuna, and that's a little bit compared to 1.1 billion kunas spent on tests so far. The results would show, or we would finally have an argument, such as other countries that have carried out the analysis, for those who present false thesis that both vaccinated and unvaccinated equally transmit the virus, and on the other hand, if it turns out that there is an inescapable number of such, then it will make sense to test both vaccinated and unvaccinated, at least in the health system, or homes for older and powerless. Ministers You're on the move. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71752	Thank you, too. If he wants a psych test, I'm habilitated to do it, but I'll charge him so you know. Mrs Katarina Peovic will be the position of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u71753	Good afternoon, everyone. In the current hour, the prime minister told me to get serious because we can't talk about how he decided to race towards the bottom when his government's mandate grew, let's say, employment, wages, pensions, social benefits, GDP, exports, investments. As a good HDZ rating rests on manipulating statistics, it is necessary to respond to these falsified data that HDZ readers are reading and we have recently learned from our jokesbachter. Here's a new jokebachter. First, we increase employment, HDZ manipulates the color of employees because they state the number of insurance companies, and it is not the same as the number of employees. So say tens of thousands of people more they're employed, they're not employed even though they're insurance workers. The real truth is that we have one of the lowest employment rates in the EU only 66.9% while the average of Europe is 72.4% in Croatia is almost a million people in employment and not employed. But that's not a real picture either, because this low employment is linked to the most important fact that 17.6% of the working-age population has moved out, the European average is colleagues and colleagues 3.3%. We have increased wages, says Andrej Plenkovic, Croatia has some of the lowest salaries in the EU, our salaries have grown slightly compared to EU salaries. Croatia grew almost least between 2011 and 2021 in the EU's lowest wage group. compared to all other EU countries. The prime minister also praised the growth in minimum wage, and often boasts with a 60% minimum wage rate reached. The minimum wage relative to gross media is on the rise, but that's because we have low and average salaries. Our average salary and Slovenian minimum wage are almost equal. We have increased pensions, pensions have raised the truth slightly with the last alignment of 2.46%, but compared to inflation of 3.8% and the purchase of basic product prices, pensioners have not felt it. Average pension in December 2020 it was only €2.566. Who can live with 2,566 kuna? The share of pensions in salary was 39.1%, and today only 37.5% in Europe is 52%. More than 52% of the pensioners are with us with a pension below the poverty line. We have increased social giving, so it should be said that Croatia is the eighth worst country in the EU according to the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The risk of poverty in the Republic of Croatia is 18.3%. The person at risk of poverty or social exclusion is 23.3% that's almost a million people today. The person in severe material deprivation is 7.3%, 6.6% cannot afford adequate heating in the coldest months, 48.6% cannot afford a week of vacation outside the house, 7.9% cannot afford a meal that contains meat, chicken, fish or vegetarian equivalent, etc. Croatia is the third poorest country in the EU. According to Prime Minister Plenkovic, we have increased GDP growth, and the real truth is we have one of the lowest GDP growth per capita in the EU. 2020 The lower growth of us was only Bulgaria and Greece. Croatia's GDP per capital of 2011-2020 increased only 1,182 euros, Hungary's 3.576 euros, Romania's 4.529 euros, Slovenia's 4,741 euros, Slovakia's 3,770 euros, so practically all of those countries had at least twice as much GDP growth than we did, or our growth was twice as slow, which means we have lagging behind twice in GDP growth from all comparative countries. Exports, when Plenkovic boasts about exports, should be warned that the increased amount does not mean much, but should be seen on the external trade and payment balance, and here we are in the deficit most of the time, which is why we are growing external debt. The export structure should also be seen. We are shutting down export industries or production that is more sophisticated, and our exports are growing mainly because of the rise in tourism. Investments, the best approximation is therefore a manifested trend in the decline of GDP has not yet reached a pre-crisis level, or investments have not reached pre-crisis levels in 2008, and this must also point out that in 2008. Total investments private public were bigger than the total amount Croatia withdrew from the eu funds. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75393	We will now begin with the first point as scheduled, as I announced yesterday evening: - The final proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the part of the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 184 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. Yeah? No, good. I am opening the debate then and the first to appear on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75394	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, we all know that this is a regular procedure, something that goes according to momentum. However, I will still take advantage of the opportunity here, and I will point out that it is precisely in the context of this law, which is the decision we are currently discussing by Croatian sovereigns, that in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the amendment of the Civil Protection Staff Act is to be confirmed later in the Croatian Parliament. So this place, this high house has electoral legitimacy. All of us here have been elected by Croatian citizens to represent them. And all key decisions affecting the quality of life of Croatian citizens must be made here. And it's no wonder we're making one decision right now because it's very important that the government does it in one period. And again I will point out, we believe that not only in this case when it is paused but continuously on all issues, on the issue of pandemics, epidemics as well as other natural disasters, all decisions must be confirmed in the Croatian Parliament. And no problem. I think it is a minimum that the ruling majority, which the government of the Republic of Croatia must satisfy. Because if it brings one body, and it's the Civil Protection Staff that doesn't have an electoral legitimacy that's one political body on the heart, but then we don't have a political debate, then we don't have these speakers, we don't have.../incomprehensible/... counter. We have simply Minister Bozinović and his associates who will make any decision and implement it without asking anyone for an opinion. What do we have left? We still have to comment on Minister Bozinovic's decisions on social networks. So I will repeat, we ask that the powers of the Civil Protection Staff must be transferred to the Croatian Parliament or whatever the Civil Protection Staff brings must be confirmed in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75395	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Vesna Nadj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the final proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. This appropriation is intended The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in its work, except those relating to the development of constitutionally established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Regulations under the legal authority shall not act backwards. The provisions shall be adopted on the basis of legal and shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of the power conferred on the Croatian Parliament unless otherwise decided. The regulations with the legal power passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Croatian Parliament under this name clearly indicate that neither the Constitution nor the Constitutional Law nor the law. Similarly, because they have legal power, they cannot be equated with sublaws, but that legal act has several restrictions which significantly distinguish it from the legal rules I call the Constitution, the Constitutional Law or the Law. First, they are not brought by constitutional or legislative bodies, but by the executive authorities, or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the system of power-sharing, it is obvious that the rule of law passed by the Government on the basis of a legal delegation as a legal regulation in the capacity of the legislative authority or law authorising the Government to adopt them. Second, these government regulations must be based on legal authority, and they must, in a substantive sense, comply with the law which gives them authority. Thirdly, regulations with legal power must not regulate issues that exclude the Constitution from being passed on to the Parliament legislator to the government in order to be regulated by regulations with legal force. Fourthly, by the nature of the affairs and competences of the legislative body only in exceptional, extraordinary situations during a time when the government could not be authorised by law to lay down regulations with legal force. On the fifth, regulations with the legal force of the Constitution have the above-mentioned legal restrictions to be taken into account, even when considering their legal nature or their position within the constitutional legal order. Therefore, the HS may authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate, instead of HS, certain issues entrusted to it by the legislator, but such regulations have legal constraints to be taken into account and binding on all bodies of the State and the Constitutional Court. This power to adopt regulations under the Legislative Delegation for the Executive Authority is significantly marked by certain restrictions. The material limitations of delegated legislation in parallel practice are also reflected in two degrees. The first stage represents a specific object which cannot be the subject of a delegation i.e. the establishment of legislative parliamentary reserves, the second stage shall include the determination of the mode of the delegated power i.e. establishing the scope and method of application of the delegated power. In addition to the matter regulated by organic laws, all matter for which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides for the adoption of constitutional laws also belongs to the legislative parliamentary reserves. It is the same to the legislative delegation itself that the Government cannot be authorized to sub-delegation or auto-delegation. The Constitution does not explicitly mention any further restrictions on certain issues as well as the particular need for precise determination of the delegated substance. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia interpreted the content of this part of the constitutional provision in early '92. The Constitution did not restrict the Parliament on the number of issues for which the regulation may be authorised by the Government and explained that the Parliament, in relation to issues of its competence, which are not covered by the legal reserves of the Article. The 88th is free to decide whether to authorise the Government to settle a number of these issues. In the last ten years, the Institute of Delegated Law in the Republic of Croatia has been applied only at a time when the Assembly does not act which also explains the absence of specific parliamentary oversight mechanisms. The Assembly must be informed of the regulations adopted, but there is no possibility of participating in their adoption. The HS shall not, by delegation of the legislative authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to the Executive Authority, be deprived of its right and of the obligation to supervise the exercise of delegated power. It's been in the Republic since '93. a regular annual delegated acts prescribed by the Government to submit a report on the regulations adopted between the two meetings on the basis of the legal authority at each HS meeting. That's how it works. 3. the final proposal of the law shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to each meeting of the HS by a report on the regulations which shall be subject to the powers laid down in Article 3. This law shall be adopted between two HS sessions, i.e. at the first session of the newly elected HS, to submit a report on the regulations it has adopted since the date of the last report. The power of the delegated law in the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS section within the constitutional period of one year from today's entry into force of this law and 10 December 2021 respectively. Therefore, the Social Democrats Club will support the adoption of this law authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the HS area, with the exception of changes to the state budget and tax regulation and those issues which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, can only be regulated by the HS during the period from 15 December 2021 to 15 January 2022 and from 15 July 2022 to 15 September 2022, respecting those constitutional restrictions and the adoption of legislative practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75397	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Anamarija Blaževic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75398	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues raised in the HS. We have already heard that the legislative foothold for the adoption of this law is the Constitution or Article. 88. The Constitution provides for the possibility for the HS as a legislative body to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in its work, and I believe that this should be repeated in order to regulate legislative issues relating to the class of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, part-line and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Also, under the legal authority of the Government, they cannot act backwards. In order to implement this provision, the HS shall, once a year, adopt the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS. The law shows that it is the government's authority to regulate legislative issues by a regulation of the day for which the HS does not meet, which we have heard is a period of rest. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, such a regulation shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of its authorisation. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1 and 2 of this proposal is defined by the time period when the Government can adopt regulations and that the Government cannot regulate regulations but is solely the authority of the HS. In the debate on the first reading of the proposal of this Act, some of the doubts that have been expressed in the comments on the draft law in question have been made, and I therefore consider it good to be in the reasoning of the Article. 1 further explains and removes various thesis and fears that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can consume power for a day through incurring human rights and fundamental freedoms. Furthermore, in accordance with Article. 3 of this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit to each meeting of the HS a report on the regulations which is based on the legal authority referred to in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 This Act adopted between the two meetings of HS and the first meeting of the newly elected HS. In the Republic of '93. In accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Further, Art. 4. it is clearly time-limited until such a regulation remains in force, which is the date of 30 November 2022. In the past period, one Government Regulation was adopted under the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues under the HS, which is the Regulation amending the Health Protection Act. The regulation regulates the status of health workers of tenants in primary health care. This has led to assumptions for the continuation of the work of these healthcare professionals in private practice in the office. The failure to adopt this Regulation and not extending the time limit for their private lease work would result in the loss of jobs in primary health care, but would also be questionable to ensure the continuity of the provision of health care to the population. The adoption of this Law is necessary to prevent the creation of a legal void. In practice, it is shown that this Law is necessary for the regular exercise of the fundamental duties of the state authorities in view of the need to ensure continuity of state affairs while respecting all material and time limits established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of HS is also highlighted in the very procedure of adopting this Act, i.e. through 2 readings in this House. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal as it contributes to legal certainty and ensures regular exercise of the fundamental duties of state authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75399	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn to represent the views of the House of Homeland Movement Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75400	Good afternoon to you all, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, Croatian public. As sometimes the beauty of life hides in small moments and small events, as well as beauty as a concept lies in detail, so sometimes the right moment for a good debate lies in such small and at first sight not so important laws. But let me start by saying that this will not be just a speech in front of the House Movement Club, this will be a speech between people whose opinion should be respected because these are people who make us all here, and this is the Croatian public, the Croatian people, so let me read to you in these 10 minutes what the Croatian public thinks about this. These are the sentences found in this bill at the very end of it, so-called. Electronic counselling. I'm going to quote what Mrs. Crescent thinks about this. Zeljka Becic. Dears, although I know that listeners to this Act will raise their hands from everything known to me, this proposal is anti-constitutional and high treasonous, the ultimate goal of introducing mandatory vaccination and other dictatorial decisions, the new lockdown that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic will impose against the interests of its own people and its own country. Please don't make fun of me. I read to you what the Croatian people think of this. If it's a laugh for you, I suggest you do some other business. It is an interesting fact that even though the Parliament had summer and winter breaks in the last 30 years, there was no need for such rape of democracy. The whole situation is too serious without the people asking their opinion. Finally, Minister Barroso's decision to declare the pandemic is practically nonexistent because it has never been published in the National Journal. This and this attempt by the ruling people to enslave their own people is shameful, thank you, Mr. Becic, and I will proceed with Mr. Jadranka Ratkovic's position. Dear Proposers, aware of the fact that you will not respect me or the others with your comments and suggestions, I still have to answer. Namely, why go into any debate when you intend to spend it? Experience has it that through this public consultation procedure, you're just satisfying the form. When this consultation is closed and the results are announced, it will be too late. What you intend to implement is inadmissible, immoral and leads to the will of an interested group or individual. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a fundamental act of every state, and so is ours. Editing the issue from the HS detour without a democratic debate is evident and suggests that it wants to be pushed under the radar, including mandatory vaccination. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirjana Katic, Matic, I apologize, says, respected, in the Republic of Croatia, the human rights of each individual are prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the international contracts which the Republic of Croatia is party to and the laws. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Art. 3 The protection of human rights defines as the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Chapter III. The Constitution guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and a large number of individual rights. This also applies to a large number of regulations including health care, social services, criminal legislation, protection against different forms of discrimination, education and the like. The laws or amendments to the law must go through the Parliament. These are constitutional issues, and they must not be regulated by government regulations. Since none of the states of the prescribed articles have been declared in our country. 17. The Constitution until the restriction of human rights in the event of an epidemic or pandemic is even foreseen by the Constitution, at least for the time being, and we see that restrictions on human rights and freedoms that must never be restricted as rights to life, prohibitions of torture, cruel or humiliating treatment or punishment and the legal determination of criminal acts and penalties are any measure against art. 17. The Constitution. Regulations and measures are not and cannot be laws. Mrs. Melita Grgant's "Respected, the necessity for the government to jump in during the winter and summer holidays when Parliament does not meet and thus makes decisions concerning all of us is the least said suspiciousness. Why so much urgency and the need to vote anything that way. Any decision if it wants to be constitutional and democratic must be made through the Parliament. If something is so urgent, then I can call upon an extraordinary session of the Assembly, who will then decide on a certain question of whatever it is." And I especially like this part "at the end of the day, parliamentary representatives are more than cash-rewarded for their work, so these rewards by their work, pawnage and responsibility should be justified. They are placed in their positions for the benefit of the entire society and of all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, not to satisfy their political ambitions or to be obedient and extended hands of the world's powers that command them to lead state policy. It is good for everyone, but the authorities and the adoption of laws should be without exception by procedure, prescribed by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia." These are four sincere opinions from the Croatian people and thank the ladies and gentlemen I mentioned here. I hope that what I read here is what he thinks and feels most of us in HS and that I am equally sure of the thoughts of the Croatian people, and as far as the government is concerned, unfortunately I am not particularly happy. In moments when Croatian society is located on a thin wire of division between the vaccinated and unvaccinated, in moments when people are left without jobs because of their decisions and civil liberties, when they are ruling to hear the messages sent to them by tens and hundreds of thousands of protesters throughout the country at these times, you know the MPs and MPs themselves, and the President of the Parliament himself sends two annual vacations for a total of three months. I fully agree with the fact that at times like this, I do not see any reason for us not to sit here every day of the week, so if we have to sit on Saturdays and Sundays, because at the end of the day, the Croatian people sent us here to do this job, and not of course to listen to our hands. Of course, we can see for ourselves what comes mainly from the opposition sides of the Croatian assembly that the statute or status of the parliamentary representative is slightly collapsing. We know well and why, so that people can say they don't do anything there, they're well paid, and that's three months, we can freely say "lufti" to ourselves in Croatia. So we're supposed to be represented as dangooses and lagoons who spend other people's money. There is a headquarters for making decisions in Croatia, there are regulations for forcing them, there are measures, and indeed at the end, even though what I am talking about now, we know for ourselves, will pass with 76 hands in this great place of Croatian democracy, we must ask ourselves what the Croatian people need in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75401	Thank you very much. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not Mr. Dretar you said someone was laughing, I didn't notice. No, no, no, and since everybody's got masks, I don't know what you've decided. I don't know. Who has a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75402	Thank you very much. This is how I feel that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, of course. In 238, for reasons that could now be read with one pulsism and one public deception. So it's clear that it's also in the explanation here that. 88. The Constitution does not allow these regulations, which the government will adopt, in fact, to enter into fundamental human rights and freedoms or the obligation of vaccination. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75403	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Dretar's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75404	Thank you very much. Art. 238, at the very least, if not the entire Rules of Procedure of HS, because for a hundred times when we try to define basic political and social concepts on one side we will always hear populistism, populism, populism. What's on the other side? Cheap elitism of the ruling caste. Thank you very much, but please don't use these terms because you obviously didn't get to know them enough. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75405	It was a replica, a replica on the replica, you actually have a warning. And now I'm setting a break by 10:30 when we continue to work on the next item of the agenda, and this concludes the debate on this agenda point, of course, and we'll vote when the conditions are obtained. Thank you. 10.30. It's 9:59 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75407	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.31 HOURS]] Law on State's Attorney's Office. The government delivered an opinion, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. I would now like to invite the attorney general of the esteemed Golden of Hrvoje Šipek to further explain the report. Just a little state's attorney's office. We've got a request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75408	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished chief state attorney, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr. President, allow me to protest something that has already become a practice, which is that reports by the judicial authorities and the State's Attorney's Office and the Supreme Court have been discussed in the assembly for some time now on the basis of the opposition initiative. We need to collect signatures to discuss such important issues. Second, let me point out that it's completely inappropriate and above all because I'm looking for a break and I'm asking you to set that break for half an hour so that the Minister of Justice can come here. So, the debate on the report by the chief state attorney, where her shift is sought, is too important to pass without the minister of justice. And now let me also use this time to explain why we're asking to initiate the recall procedure of the state's attorney general. The case of Agrokor, the case of Žalac, was the fact that there was a lack of truth in the public like that the case was being investigated and the case was given to the Office of the European Public Prosecutor while it was true that he was being held in the drawer, shows that the State's Attorney's Office is not functioning. The state's attorney's office at the moment has become an extended hand of politics. Instead of being an independent institution fighting for the pursuit of corruption, crime in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The state's attorney's office is not doing its job, and for that, the most responsible is the state's attorney general. That is why we in the SDP are asking the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide whether or not to initiate the recall procedure. And you must all be aware, in corruption there are only two options or you fight it or you support it. At the vote on the State's Attorney General You'll have a chance to show what you're up for. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75409	Thank you very much. So this is a report from the attorney general, this is not a request to initiate the discharge procedure, so it's your right, your party and other parties, but so we're talking about the report today. As far as the government's representatives are concerned, there is a respected state secretary at the Justice and Administration Ministry, Juro Martinovic, who was also one of the government's announced representatives. Let's go to second, second request for a break, colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75410	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I demand a 10 minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. In this year's report, we have an interesting piece of information, and I don't know what that is, and here's the next one. Other data suggest that among officials in the Republic of Croatia there are 13 Serbs, each by 1 Montenegrin, Bosniak, Italian, Macedonian, Hungarian, Ukrainian as many as 2 Czechs. Well, I'm curious as to what this information is and maybe to supplement this research so we know for example. How many Catholics there are, how many Orthodoxs there are, how many LGBT people there are, how many lesbians, how many homosexuals there are, how many blondes there are, how many bald, how many bald ones there are, let's see how much average weight they weigh, or what mass they weigh, so let's see, for example. How many of those are more than 50 feet tall, those less than 50 feet, so those who weigh 100 kg, those who are less than 100 kg. I don't know what this information is, maybe there's some reason, but here's me. It's just not clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75411	Okay, the break is approved as well as my colleagues' coat of arms. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75412	Thank you. So, since the outbreak of the Zhalac affair, since the European Public Prosecutor's Office opened this case, he has arrested the former minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75413	You're just looking for a break from your buddy, and you can only explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75414	I'm looking for a break that's quite clear, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club. So, ever since this case was opened since the arrest of the former HDZ presidency minister, close friend of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, I have claimed one thing. And that's that DORH and USCOK are working on the orders of Andrej Plenkovic. Not only about this affair, I've been saying it for 2-3 years maybe, maybe even more because I've witnessed personally that they don't want to investigate the items involving the highest government officials or at least their friends or acquaintances. My colleague, Habiban, accused me in the Open to lie, that this case has actually come to the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, in the end proved to be a liar, to lie to the DORH, to lie to UsKOK, and that in fact, the ruling HDZ is returning a favor to the DORH and the Golden Croatian Ship because they were protecting their Gabi. Croatian people have had enough of this kind of DORH, this kind of DORH cannot be reformed, this is the kind of DORH that needs to be demonized. And here I am pleased that this is for the first time that one working body of the Croatian Parliament is in charge of fighting corruption, and this has been decided by the Anti-Corruption Council to reject the report by the attorney general and by majority vote and to ask the Government to initiate the replacement of the main state attorney. That, President-in-Office of the Parliament, is no longer the request of a party. It's a request. the work body of HS. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75415	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Nadj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75416	I thank Mr. HS President, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to further consult on the situation in the DORH and USKOK since we believe that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know whether the Croatian State Attorney is headed by Chief State Attorney Zlato Hrvoj Šiček and USKOK are even able to act on behalf of the Republic of Croatia against the perpetrators of criminal offences, and after the latest software affairs in the case of former Minister Žalac and the Director of SAFU, Tomislav Petrir, when this was a disgrace to the DORH and USKOK, the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, and all of this, the case was also known by the State Attorney General, although he lied that he did not know. Instead of doing their job by pressing charges against the perpetrators of criminal acts, the indictments are agreed by various Mamics from the comfort of their Bosnian Herzegovic forks, and Ivica Todorić calls DORH and cereca from his Kulmerović court because the DORH has dropped the charge of doping in the case of Agrokor. No wonder that Osijek's judge Vekic and friend, instead of washing laundry, laundering huge money, and now the chief state attorney, announced by Director UskoK's shift, would like to show that the damage has been solved, saved herself, drowned the principal, or subordinated. Well, there's no damage to the rehab, there's still a lot of holes in the barrel, there's a lot of taxpayers' money in private pockets, and you're, of course, the state's chief attorney, Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, unable to get the DORH and USCOD out of the living mud, and who knows what else is waiting for us in the Agrokor case. That's why it's better to resign on your own, otherwise it's done in these situations as a moral act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75417	Stanka has been approved, now it's time for her colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75418	Good afternoon, everyone. Here I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front to warn us of another affair, besides the meaning of the Zalac affair, Agrokor, there is still of course an affair. One of them is that DORH has been holding in the drawer an object tied up in Kraš where workers and workers have filed a complaint against the manager and against the brothers of the Pivacs who have made themselves rich in the purchase of shares. The brewers acquired those shares with a promise that there will be no layoffs of workers. Here, DORH has been holding their application in drawers for over a year and is not acting on it. The same you, so the owners who got the Kraš now enter the huge viscoprofit company Podravka, one of the larger Croatian companies where more than 6500 people are employed, so my question will be, and in this debate, why does DORH keep that application in the drawer for a year, why does he not act on it and when he actually thinks about doing anything, and in favour of our companies and our employees?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75419	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75420	I thank you, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Blocks Club in order to find once again that neither the leadership nor the entire DORH organisation together with the USKOK provides the basic requirements that we have set here, and this is an effective and rapid fight against corruption. What is most visible, of course, are those cases of political corruption because they have a high profile both in the public and in the media and on these very cases actually a continuous DORH decline. I must point out once again that a year ago, together with our colleagues, we asked all the colleagues in the opposition to establish an investigative commission here that would have just detected what problems within the system are, including the DORH that cause the leak of information, the collapse of investigations, the long-term investigation, but also the inability of a judicial epilogue in cases of highly profiled cases of political corruption. Of course, the ruling majority was against it. When you took office, you yourself said that there was actually no political pressure on the DORH and that you didn't expect it and that you thought you could work freely and normally. So how is it possible that in a case that was clear based on clean documentation, where they don't need special reconnaissances for three years, etc., there was no epilogue, there was such, so-called. Dead case and it's taken over by the European Prosecutor's Office. So how is it possible that the Wire case isn't open yet? And the paperwork is all available. How is it possible that Agrokor's case is going down? How is it possible that the Borg case isn't solved? So that's all, how is it possible that every time a senior state official comes along, they They're shooting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How is that possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75421	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bencic. The break has been granted. Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75422	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Party Club Center and the GLAS party for consultation. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in all of the USKOK that has the area of competence of the entire Republic of Croatia, for only 33 judicial employees, and in the whole of the DORH we have 638, in other words, this body is under-capacitated, both by the staff, both by the coefficients of their salaries and the overall logistics conditions for their work. It's the responsibility of politics. If we look at the results of the work and the statistics, then we can be content with their work. It should be noted that they do 470,000 different objects a year. However, it should also be said that BOOK and DORH cannot perform their function unless there is confidence in their leadership, and this trust has been seriously violated by the accident of Gabriele Žalac. And in order that we, especially opposition MPs, would not turn the saw upside down, asking only for the replacement of the chief state attorney and director of USKOK, should we say, if we really suspect that there were political obstructions in the case of a minister, then we should ask ourselves who ordered this political obstruction and in whose interest it was conducted. It is undoubtedly Andrej Plenkovic, his government and HDZ's parliamentary majority. Well, let's not be cowards then. What are we going to achieve by changing the chief state attorney and director of USKOK, and allowing HDZ to re-choice itself in a similar way, obey those who do not object, those who do not conduct investigations where investigations are to be conducted. We are going with a request for a shift to the end and we are looking for the replacement of Andrej Plenkovic, his government and HDZ's parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75423	The apartment is approved. Now she's going to speak to her colleague Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75424	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ for 10 minutes to remind me once again that today the item of the agenda is the report on the work of the attorney general and state's attorneys for 2020. The overall report shows that the work of the State's Attorney's Office is even better than in the previous period and as regards the rate of urgency and success. What we're hearing here by the opposition is actually an attack on the government and on HDZ through the state's attorney's office. I am not for this, and neither is the HDZ Club to be a direct court, we are the holders of the legislative authority, and as such we should act and perform. We need to respect what the state's attorney's office is, and it's an independent and independent body under the Constitution. We need to base the reports we have to analyze this work and see how we can contribute to the overall situation not only in the state's attorney's office, but in the judiciary it gets better. This way of listening here today by the opposition, we only encourage people to be asked to resign, in a court of law to be tried, and we don't wonder what conditions these people are working on. ... So we're also wondering if you're watching over the last few years how much you've invested and made a move both in the accommodation and in the equipment of the state's attorney's offices. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] But what we certainly won't allow is that we don't respect the principle of trioing the government, we can point out, we can argue with argument, but we're not a direct court. And I therefore ask that today, during this debate, we all behave as our duty and obligation requires. Not that we're looking for shifts here by a court of law. all procedures are and all cases are processed. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75425	My colleague Jelkovac, thank you very much. The break has been approved. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first mate of the Grmoys, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75426	Infringement of Article 238, but also a few other articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will not be told by the representatives of our colleague Jeklovac or the ruling majority how we will conduct this debate here today. It's been so long, I know there's a lot of those from the former system in your ranks, but it's not gonna work out here. And the main state attorney will answer all questions, and we as representatives, since she was elected here in the Croatian Parliament, we have the right to seek and your shift, and you set it up, and you can also set it free. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] But you don't want to. [[Intruder: Comrade Grmo, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75427	You're getting your first warning. Don't play around because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure already by looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure that wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you're still out of the time frame. So there's nothing the representative of the steelman said differently than all of you before her, except that you were on the opposite side of your argument. So you can be parliamentary. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75428	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 was injured, counterpart Jelkovac not only insulted all MPs but also deceived the Croatian public. You are talking about the conditions of work of USKOK and DORH, so who creates these conditions, so if you have read the report of the state's chief attorney, which says how many times she has asked the minister to increase the coefficients, how many times has employment been sought where there are systematiced jobs, so it is difficult or not approved. We've been looking for financial investigators since 2014. Only 2, 2 are employed, the Honorable Chairman is worth warning, 2. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75429	You win, you get your first warning. Please stick to the time and do not violate the Rules of Procedure, this is a warning. Now it's my friend Bartulica's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75430	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, too, to consult on this point. Some institutions are doing their job, perhaps a flossula most often heard in the Croatian public, but it should be reminded that concrete people work in these institutions. We in the assembly have the right to choose you, but your colleagues who make this system as a whole elects the State Attorney's Council. This is where anonymous people sit, their work is not properly exposed to the court of the public, so we're spinning around in circles. Everything we do as Parliamentarians is exposed to the public, every statement is estimated to be bad, the people have the right to choose us every 4 years. But in your case except for you, I think it's important that you're here to answer the question, all other colleagues actually choose, colleagues in one closed circle. And I would call it a judicial swamp, so these institutions haven't changed in years, we see how the Agrokor case and other cases refuse, that is, you don't need to be an expert on judicial issues to see that it doesn't pour trust. It's clear to everyone. But today is just a small opportunity, a small opportunity for you to answer specific questions. And what happens tomorrow and no one knows the next day. Here, I, I, appeal, appeal therefore to introduce this perhaps more often this practice, that you come more often because our citizens are truly desperate, enough of this. This is no longer tolerable and it's hard to watch this all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75431	The flat is approved, but Article 293b. We can continue to do this and we'll do this, so I'm calling on the state's attorney-general, the respected Golden Croatian Šipek, to submit an opening report for 20 minutes, please. Please just keep the plates on to write down. And I'm only asking when you're writing down a fair schedule, that's fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75432	The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs and MPs at HS. I will try to present the most important data on the work of the state's attorneys and reports for 2020 in this short presentation. The report gives a detailed overview of the work of the national lawyers through the quality efficiency indicator applied by the Commission for the efficiency of the judiciary of the Council of Europe and on the basis of which the work of the courts is monitored. In addition to data on the scope of work, by type of case and at all levels of municipal, county and state and regarding USKOK, this report shows the results of the work of state lawyers through the presentation of decisions taken, decisions taken, but also the decision of the courts. In line with the comments and proposals of last year's debate on the report for the 20th year, data on the national structure of officials, education and professional training of state attorneys were added, and a report on the work of the State Attorney's Council in 2020 was added. A total of 1824 persons were employed in 42 state-owned lawyers to whom the USKOK was involved while the state's attorney's office was held by 638 state lawyers and their deputies. In the '20s, there was no employment of new legal practitioners, and when the age structure of state attorneys is looked at, it is clear that this is not good, given that as many as 45% of officials are over 45 years old. 68.8% of officials are women. As far as education is concerned, I have to say, and that's probably the part that is not so familiar to you, so we added that, during 2020, a total of 559 or 88% of the state's attorneys and deputies participated in more professional training activities at the Judicial Academy in the activities of the State School for Judicial Officials. State lawyers participated in workshops as heads of these workshops or as members of civil, civil and procedural law, criminal, material and criminal procedural law, European, international etc. A total of 213,252 new items were accepted, since 41,000 cases remained unsolved, the state's attorneys had a total of over 254,000 cases. It's been solved 213,000, I'll cut the numbers, I won't read the number until the end, and then there's a positive trend in the reduction of unsolved objects. As compared to 2019, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The number of pending cases has been reduced by 5,900 which I consider this an extremely good result given the conditions in which it was working in the 20th year and the earthquake in which the premises of the State's Attorney's Office and the Republic and the Municipal State's Attorney's Office, the Civil-Governmental Department in Zagreb were severely damaged. I must point out that the data presented only relate to cases which are in the works before the State's Attorney's Office because performance indicators can only be applied to them and decisions taken by the State's Attorney's Office. Subject matter in which proceedings are initiated and led before courts and public authorities after the decision has been taken, are shown in particular because the management of these proceedings and their duration does not depend on the state's attorney's office. Data in the information system show that the number of cases in court proceedings and public authorities increased by 38,000 or 13.5% more than there were, and the procedures in which the state's attorney's office took part increased by 20,000 cases or 4.3% compared to '19. and totals 471,000. At the end of the year, a total of 284,000 cases were conducted before the courts. I point out that due to the measures taken by the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, the work of the courts is being intensified, an increasing number of debates are being held that the state's attorney's office with existing capacities can already be difficult to monitor. Next year will be even harder and it can be expected to come to a standstill because we won't be able to, I say, cover all the debates. At the same time, due to a large number of discussions, the number of resolved state-level cases or concrete criminal charges will drop, the duration of the investigation will be extended so as not to list further. I therefore propose to approve an increase in the number of officials and advisers in the State's Attorney's Office because in a relatively short time due to the age structure, there will be a rapid lack of personnel. The performance indicators based on the number of resolved cases in the state's attorney's office and the number of resolutions that were really present at work show that the number of resolved, completed cases remained practically at the level of the 19th, and the average rate of urgency is 100% by reducing the duration of the procedure and I consider it a great success. When observing certain types of subjects, the duration of the period is of course different in terms of the complexity of the case, but also in the procedural rules of the proceedings. Data on the movement of USKOK for the period from '16-19. shall be based on manual records recorded in the registers. It's not until April of '20. Involved in the CTS information system, together with the fact that new statistical monitoring of work and the application of the new Rules of Procedure, which introduced new types of cases led to a higher number of cases received and solved than in '19. A year. When we talk about the work of the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, we can conclude that the number of cases since '16. Until '20. It continuously increases due to the inflow of new objects. In the '20s. A few smaller cases have been solved for a year, but the unscheduled ones have been reduced. The average rate of update is 100%, the time of resolution is reduced. For the work of all state's attorneys in the '20s. The total amount of €442 million was granted in the year, stressing that 84 million were granted for the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, of which even 40, 74% were exclusively for the costs of representation in international arbitration. If we're talking about the work of the penitentiary departments, then I can say it's against expectations in the '20s. a year in view of all the circumstances that we have received 39,926 criminal charges against known natural and legal persons more. That's 4,000 criminal charges more than a year ago. Compared to the structure of the known perpetrators, there are no major deviations, and when it comes to unsolved criminal charges from 19. In the year, we add them to new applications, we have a total of 49,800 applications of which 76.6% have been resolved. Compared to a year earlier, that rate was then resolved 72%, showing a rise again. A high rate of urgency has been maintained despite all the difficulties. As far as investigations are concerned, which are of course always of particular interest in the '20s. A solution on the conduct of an investigation against 4.189 persons was adopted year. Of the total number of investigations in the paper, 6,500 were completed 4,105 investigations or 63.6%, followed by 3,346 indictments or 81%. The data suggests contrary to public claims that the average duration of the investigation is up to 6 months. From 4,100 completed investigations, 76% were completed for up to 6 months, 14.5% for up to 12 months, 4.4% for 18 months and 4.5% for more than 18 months. It has, of course, contributed significantly to this, apart from the complexity of the case and the large number of evidence actions that were to be carried out by the Covid pandemic, because they were unable to carry out evidence actions, and finally the conditions also affected the work of the police and the PNUSKOK, which carried out a large part of the reconnaissance for the needs of the State's attorney in these investigations. The state's attorneys have filed charges against 18,000 people, which is 1,275 people more than the previous and previous years. In the early '20s. There were 30,000 indictees working before the court by not making a decision on the indictment for 4,924 persons. In the past year, the defendants made a total of 14,500 decisions on the indictment, but it is at the end of the '20s. A year before the defendant's council without ruling on the indictment, 6,900 people remain. That the quality of the high-level indictments was also confirmed by the fact that 97.48% of the charges were confirmed. We hope that amendments to the CAP will be adopted by the proposal of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to allow the appeal against the resolution of the indictment's ruling. During the '20s. In the year, first-degree courts ruled against 17.235 adults, 88.8% of whom were convicted at the end of the '20s. 25,000 defendants left without conviction. A total of 26.9% of people were sentenced to prison sentences in the structure of fines imposed, with a total of 26.9% of people being replaced by the Institute of Labour in prison for general good or 16% compared to 681 persons. This percentage is in '19. The year was much larger, which means that this institute is being applied increasingly while 5 people are sentenced to long-term prison sentences, and 70% are being sentenced to parole. It is here to mention the legal possibility of consensual settlement of criminal cases such as the institute of agreement of the State's Attorney's Office with the defendants. In the total number of decisions taken by the court to a significant extent, they shall take part in the judgments with a criminal order in the '20s. 3,031 or 19.1% of the total condemning, total number of convictions. If we add that 3.2% of the rulings were reached under the agreement of the parties, we see that as many as 23% of the total court decisions taken were taken without discussion. This confirms that judgments with a criminal order and rulings under the agreement of the parties significantly reduce the duration of criminal proceedings, relieve courts, as well as state attorneys themselves, and reduce the costs of the proceedings. However, in the '20s. The year's number of rulings based on disputes was lower, they were made alone, 492 verdicts were passed while they were in '19. 602. We believe that this is to a significant extent contributed by the mild penal policy of the courts. The property benefit was subtracted from 641 persons in total amounting to 100, over 196 million kuna. This is a larger one in the previous two years, of which 39% of the values apply to USKOK items, and 48% to JDO's cases. All state attorneys, including the USKOK in criminal proceedings, participated in 46 235 hearings and discussions. The number of evidence actions carried out by the state's attorneys or other bodies by order of the state's attorneys, which is most often the police, has been significantly increased. A total of 43 and a half thousand evidence stores were carried out, which is 5 thousand more than in '19. Mr. This fact points to the conclusion that despite the fact that their work was largely determined by epidemiological measures due to the Covida-19 pandemic, a good business organisation carried out a significant number of evidence actions compared to the previous reporting period. In the report is a special part of criminal acts that pay special attention to our work, but also to those for whom it is estimated to be of interest to the public. In this report, we have for the first time shown the crime of domestic violence and the crime of illegal investment, movement and residence in the Republic of Croatia, another EU Member State or the signatories of Schengen. I wouldn't talk about these items, they're detailed in the report, so if there's need, interest, I'll answer them. Regardless of the recent events, the USOKE in the field of corruption and organised crime is doing a very good job, is making a lot of effort and ambition, and the results that are being achieved are still at an envious level. But as it comes to complex cases, these results cannot be expected overnight, these more because the work is burdened by a large number of applications that are very often unfounded, so the structure of the decisions made is also talking about 70% of the rejections. It is very common for citizens to report against officials who are dissatisfied with their work or decisions and to assess them as illegal or corrupt. I must point out that at the end of '19, there were no pending reports in the work, which shows that great urgency has been achieved. Also, after the investigation was completed, USKOK accused 372 people, and the accused council of competent courts confirmed 99% of the charges brought. When it comes to the work of civil-government departments, it should be said that the DORH through the representation of the state before courts, both domestic and international or foreign, and the extraordinary extrajudicial settlement of disputes is represented by the Republic of Croatia. In the '20s. A total of 76,000 new items were received. Of the total number in the structure, 70% refers to court cases, 4.5% to administrative cases, and 24% to state-of-law cases. In the case of court cases, the most executive, which, due to the adoption of the Law on Intervention Measures, have been reduced during the duration of the special circumstances and delays laid down by that law. 19 and a half thousand hearings have been held, from which I stress that 5 thousand hearings are outside the seat, making it significantly harder to work and asking for much more time than deputies. 8600 requests were made for a peaceful solution to the dispute, 1229 more than in 19, 1546 extrajudicial settlements were concluded. This institute represents a significant, effective and significantly cheaper way of non-judicial dispute resolution that reduces both the costs of parties, lawyers and courts and DORH. If we look at the last five years, then we'll see that 8 and a half thousand settlements totalling 586 million kunas are made. If we put this in line with the old framework criteria for the work of judges, it turns out that 43 judges were released for a year, or relieved of work on litigation. As far as representing foreign courts is concerned, I will set aside international arbitration. In the '20s. 11 arbitration proceedings were conducted against the Republic of Croatia and 2 according to UNCITRAL rules of the total value of the case of EUR 1.3 billion. As is known, the Republic of Croatia has reached an agreement with 6 banks on the suspension of the procedure after which 4 banks permanently gave up arbitration proceedings and possible future disputes this year. Also, I must say that this year, a legal ruling has been passed in Amlin v. Republic of Croatia which denied the application for compensation of 71m euros, but we are obliged to compensate the prosecutor for part of the costs because the tribunal has concluded that we have committed one of the 4 injuries to the burden. So these would be the most important highlights in the report to be discussed today. I must say that these results have been achieved under extremely difficult conditions and have been the result of the dedicated work of all officials, officials and tenants. Work data confirm that state attorneys have maintained the level of urgency, shortened the time of resolution, as finally confirmed by the EU Commission in the rule of law report. As we are facing amendments and additions to the USKOK Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the litigation procedure in which the working groups are actively involved representatives of the DORH, I expect that we will get a legal framework that will allow us to carry out procedures of all kinds of quality and efficiency. Since it can always do better and more, further organisational, supervisory, educational and personnel measures, My goal is to raise awareness and quality of decisions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75433	Thank you, too. Let's go now with the replicas, there are 34 of them. 33 replicas, so I ask you to stick to time. It's one minute for the replica and for the reply to the replica. First of all, it's Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75434	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Respected state's attorney general. Respecting the overall complexity and scope of the DORH's work cycle, my question will go in the direction of what I personally consider to be a priority and an over-supervised issue, which is a matter of solving war crimes, starting with the fact that the crime of war crime does not become permanent is the obligation of all the authorities that are competent to carry out both investigations and reconnaissances and ultimately prosecute those responsible for these most serious crimes. Specifically related to the area of the city of Vukovar, DORH has so far launched an investigation against 431 people where 112 people have been convicted, and 109 are being investigated. Can you tell me what the DORH did on this issue last year where you filed your report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75435	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75436	Thank you very much for this question. On the eve of the Day of Vukovar, the DORH gave detailed information, and now I, unfortunately, do not have this moment with me on the number of defendants and convicted persons. After a decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia which made it clear that it would not prosecute and that there is no basis under their law for the processing of persons under the command responsibility of the DORH, it considers that there is no longer any basis for non-implementation of the proceedings in absentia. That is why it started after we were familiar with this decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia to initiate proceedings and propose a trial in absentia. Unfortunately, we often hear that part of the people responsible for war crimes in the Vukovar area They are walking through the Walk of Vukovar, [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] However, among them [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] find the persons who have endured the fines already. [[Incursion president: State's attorneys.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75437	Please, we need to hold on for one minute, and there's a traffic light there, so adjust. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75438	Thank you. Respected state's attorney. You have provided information in the 284,000 items report, and I am sure there are very honest and capable people working on these items, but the report does not, with all due respect, pour confidence. I have an example from my own experience, and I've sent you an inquiry into the case of hate speech, in my opinion, a clear case of hate speech against Catholic believers. The DORH responded to the President of the Parliament, I don't know why, not to me, so it was your responsibility from the Parliament that I had sent the inquiry, so let the answer be addressed to me. I'm still waiting for that. Therefore, if the DORH is not able specifically to make very specific enquiries to our MPs, then how can it be a condition? to ordinary people? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75439	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75440	In fact, I have to say that the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament is actually the difference between whether or not asking a question is being asked a parliamentary question because the answer to the parliamentary question goes through the Bureau of Parliament, so it goes that way, or whether it's a question of whether the question in the signing is a person who is a parliamentary representative in this matter is a difference in procedure, so it's prescribed so the answer came to HS and did not come directly to you. In particular, I could no longer answer you, I can check and give you a question later or give you an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75441	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75442	Respected state's attorney general. You pointed out that in the proceedings before the International Court of Arbitration in Washington, you reached an agreement with six banks where a suspension of the claim or request was agreed and with the possibility of permanent withdrawal from further arbitration. However, these banks pointed out in the original request of more than 5 billion kuna, and now we and the Croatian public are interested in how you managed to convince them, how much does this deal cost, who paid for lunch, gave what commitments to the rest, and how did the banks become altruistic towards Croatia before the two banks remained in the dispute with more than 2.5 billion Kuna Addiko and Societa Generale? Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75443	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75444	Dear Representative Sacic. I don't know who he was or if anyone was at lunch with the banks, I sure as hell wasn't. The negotiations were conducted of course between the Ministry of Finance and the banks, the DORH provided its support in these negotiations because we must be aware that the ICSID or the International Centre for Dispute Resolution is one of the bodies established by the World Bank and that the conduct of such a large number of arbitration proceedings has a significant impact on international reputation, of course negatively, on the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia. The banks probably felt themselves, given everything that was happening to the decisions that our courts made and agreed to stall the proceedings, and then later this year and four banks were permanently, first there was a delay in the arbitration proceedings afterwards, so that everyone was in the process as well as when in our actions bear our expense. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75445	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75446	Mrs. Šipek does not have this level of expertise that can abolize the carrying out of lies, hiding information etc., this is what happened in the case of Gabriela Žalac. If the reason for not forwarding information to the prosecutor was a failure or if someone gave you a moment of authority is completely irrelevant, today, a corrupt minister in the government would walk free. And in vain, all the statistics you have presented today and the ruling set can leave you in that place trying to return to you perhaps a service to protect their member of the presidency of their party, but it is irrelevant if you keep to your profession, to what you do to yourself you will walk away because you have not failed to punish someone for parking tickets but a corrupt minister in one government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75447	Here are your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75448	Mr. Petrov, I categorically reject your allegations and deny them. At this time, surveillance of the work of all these cases related not only to the case of Zalac, but also to other cases related to communication, coordination with the Office of the European Prosecutors. I talked to her, she has no objections to the work of the state's attorney's office and the conduct of the Republic of Croatia. Once I've established all the facts, I'll make a decision and you'll be notified of it. At this point I don't think of speculating about anything, and exactly what's going on in the media is speculation. And that's what everyone has their own interest in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75449	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear state attorneys, you are obviously a wanted person here, you can tell by the number of replicas, so here I am interested in the issue of financial guarantees by the Croatian government. The Croatian government, under the Law on the implementation of the state budget, is issuing these guarantees, and we all know that the most of these guarantees have gone away, let's say that in shipbuilding. Meanwhile, there have been various situations where these guarantees have unfortunately been realised, so I wonder if, in this case, you can't see that, you've been conducting some kind of research when it comes to this huge amount of guarantees, and if someone has, have come to know if anyone in this case has been favored, if anyone has been responsible for this huge amount of money that has gone out of the state budget, so from our pockets according to failed projects, above all, in the shipbuilding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75451	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75452	Rehabilitation of Croatian shipbuilding and the rehabilitation programme that was carried out several years ago, now I can't remember exactly when, but it was approved by the European Commission. And the concept of the then government of the Republic of Croatia was confirmed on their part. The State Attorney's Office, or the USKOK, depending on the jurisdiction of carrying out inspections related to the operation of certain shipyards, or what was going on and what was happening, and I couldn't really say anything more about this, given that the reconnaissances are ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75453	Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75454	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues here are here in front of us this report, which is comprehensive, systematic, and how it resembles such documents, depicts the state of the operation of the DORH from its section. In my opinion, however, one aspect of the part or the offence is not sufficiently covered or is the shrub in this report. We are witnessing and there is an increase in hate speech as well as inciting violence and hatred especially through social networks. This can, of course, lead to radicalisation of individuals and increase the number of elements, parts with elements of terrorism as well as minority social groups. Whether or not you have specific information about this, with a note that you would like these forms of criminal offences to increase attention in the operation of the DORH. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75455	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75456	Just a second, please. For the crime of hate speech or public drive to violence and hate in the '20s. A total of 60 people have been reported for hate crimes committed by the police for 46 people. Forty persons were charged and a total of 7 criminal charges were rejected. The courts have reached judgments against 13 persons, 1 liberating and 2 refuting. We are aware, we are closely monitoring what is happening with these criminal acts, we are working on education and in cooperation with other international bodies and NGOs because, of course, especially during this period of isolation of citizens, so I think all psychologists and sociologists have made it clear that the issue of aggression and violence is growing, and so is hate speech. So it's taken as much care of as we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75457	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75458	At this joint session of the Justice Committee, you said that the main state attorney's office in February 2020 received a report on this case and that you took office on 26 May 2020. On 1 June 2021, the European Public Prosecutor's Office was established, regardless of your justification, you had to be familiar with all the cases, regardless of your duty after the report came, but I have one piece of information after which you will be here if you care about the DORH and the Croatian judiciary will have to resign. So, In July 2021, you received a report from the USKOK new in this case and you were informed. [[Intruder: Yes.]] So how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75459	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75460	First of all, I said that I would inform this assembly of the facts, and then I would make my decision. As for July, and I know that, the same report was repeated in July, which was delivered in February. And the decisions made by the BOOK were made in February. The July report I didn't see. It can be seen, it can be seen by looking into the file.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75461	Now, what do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure or not? I won't take it away from you because you only have one. Just be careful, but finish on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75462	So he's hurt. 238, I hope that this entire Croatian public is watching, the chief state attorney admitted that in July 2021 a USKOK report came to her table, and she claims she did not see it. So she was familiar with the fact that UskoK did nothing or that UskoK did nothing, but that he did nothing in the end and that the whole case was done by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. You after this, you can just resign, there's no point in further discussing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75463	Thank you very much. You're getting a second warning because this was a replica, of course, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75464	This will be a replica, Your Honor, Mr. President. Respected Attorney General, Art. 24 The regulation on the European Public Prosecutor makes it clear what the obligations of the authorities of the Member States are. One of them is not only when it is established, but when there is a suspicion of abuse of EU funds, to inform the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That didn't happen and that's a fact. However, I will ask you something else, the Constitution has prescribed that the DORH is obliged to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, it is required to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. They don't need other people's initiatives, it's the DORH's duty. What are you going to do, given this constitutional provision, to cancel the corrupt contract that INA has left to MOL? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75466	As far as the case goes, I don't want to answer any more or any of the software's affairs and let me no longer answer your questions, not to answer those questions because of what it really is. An ongoing investigation. [[Invader: State's attorneys...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75467	State attorneys, I must now, therefore, by the Rules of Procedure of HS, you must respond to the replica that has been set up for you. I understand what you're saying now, that you won't show yourself about it anymore, but in this replica you now have to answer to your fellow coat of arms. I have to warn you because otherwise I'd be breaking the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75468	Okay. Thank you very much. Excuse me. So, the reconnaissances are ongoing, i.e. surveillance of the work in this case, everything that has been taken, any state's attorney's office, is under way, and when all the facts are established, the public will be informed of it, as well as of my decision. As for the INA MOL, I must say... As far as INA's MOL is concerned, I must say, the DORH was not represented in this arbitration procedure, it was two arbitration proceedings, trade arbitration and investment arbitration conducted in Washington. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Please, come on, let's do it so we can work. Here you go.]] The contract concluded by the Republic of Croatia with INA MOL and later the Intermediate Contract is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75469	I'm sorry, but time's up. Now it's time for my colleague, Nadj, here you go. ... My fellow coat of arms, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75470	He's been injured. 238 Rules of Procedure. The attorney general directly avoids answering the question. I did not speak of arbitration disputes, I asked the question of what will be taken after Croatian courts reached a final verdict in the case of Mr Sanader, former Prime Minister and former HDZ President, that he had received bribes in the case that led to the conclusion of a harmful contract and whether the DORH to fulfill your constitutional task and do something... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75471	Thanks, buddy. You know you hurt the Rules of Procedure yourself, so you get a warning. ... First, first. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I ask you like this, you have to answer that minute what they ask you, I can't, if I let you talk any longer, then the questions askers would have the right to speak the same longer. Try, when you answer another question of a similar character to connect it and say what you wanted to say. Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75472	I'd like to thank Mr. President HS, the respected state's attorney general. After all these affairs from the DORH and USKOK, which you well call recent events, how nice it sounds to you and the showers that have been struck by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, do you feel any shame because you are responsible for the reputation of the DORH and USKOK you have brought down on the lowest branches, and I remind you, that you have taken an oath before this HS, among other things, to promote the reputation of the DORH. That's when you said you were deeply aware of those oaths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75473	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75474	I am deeply aware of these oaths and I am aware of my responsibilities and am ready to take responsibility for my actions and inactions. But don't take responsibility in general for everything that started or did others. I said I'd never protect and we'd work transparently, when it was determined who was responsible, that one would answer. From our ranks, from anyone's ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75475	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75476	Respected state's attorney. All those who have read the report and seen the figures, I don't think there's anything they can object to. And it's not really what's been done, it's what's not done, you're aware of that, and that's why today and here you have so many replicas on the subject. I'd like you to answer two questions for me. Within USKOK, there is the Department for the Prevention of Corruption and Public Relations, and it draws up the Report, draws up discussions on the emerging forms of corruption in the public and private sectors. I know you don't have enough time to tell me everything there is in that report, but I'd like you to send me that report to see what it says last year if that's not a problem. And the second question is, do you know how many proceedings have been suspended against government officials and local officials, meaning the mayor of municipalities and mayors in the past? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75477	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75478	I can't answer this question because we're not running through a CTS system, which is what a certain person is, we'd have to review the files, we could get that data, but at this point I can't answer it because that's not supported by the CTS system. The problem is that what I said about the USCOD responsible for the criminal offences of these people in the CTS began to apply the CTS only in April last year, unlike other state attorneys that have applied it since '13. So they've entered a large number of objects. This is one of the reasons why we believe that we should and should have sought and proposed amendments to the USKOK Act, which is practically so long a number of years unchanged and never supervised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75479	Comrade Kuzmanić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75480	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected state attorney is not a problem in what the report says, but in what is not in the report. The Croatian public is looking for answers to the question whether or not you are familiar with the case of Žalac, when you are familiar with it and when you were correct about it and why? What were your motives for bringing out the untrues, with which you agreed to falsely present the facts, did you inform the Attorney General's office, why you were not in agreement with whom? Why do you allow someone else to be held accountable for your failure? And one very important thing, and that's exactly who's to blame for the shameful art in Agrokor, who's going to answer for it and who's going to be responsible for the damage that the Republic will do in case the state loses its arbitration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75481	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75482	The notice of the Office of the European Prosecutors has USKOK, not the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, I have not lied, and at least with anyone else. My conference arrangements went exclusively with the Director of UskoK. As far as art is concerned, we believe that art, the artisan is set in 2018, that the artisan has been conducted legally and that when the indictment is re-arranged, the validity and value of this artificial finding will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75483	She will now be replicated by her colleague, only a small violation of her colleague Kuzmanic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75484	The Honorable President was injured in Article 238, you had more time to answer me, I asked you a key question about who would be responsible in Agrokor's case for the creamy craftsmanship if the state lost that arbitration dispute, you didn't answer me, you had time, so I believe that you are knowingly avoiding the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75485	Kolega Kuzmanić No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[I'm not avoiding the answer.]] Here's your colleague, Mlinarić, and you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75486	238, Mr. Jandrokovic, I would ask you to explain to me why you took my word from the current clock when I said Article 238, you now allow everyone 20 seconds to speak, and you took me after three seconds, is that because of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who was there, and you were protecting him, you did not want to be given this violation of the Rules of Procedure. You gave me a warning after three seconds and you took my word. [[No, no, no, I didn't, no.]] I wonder why you have double criteria. you have when Plenkovic is here and when he's gone. [[I don't have a colleague, Mlinaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75487	Now you're getting a warning because you're arguing with me that's the first thing and this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I always estimate the basis of Article 238 whether something is going in the direction of possible violations of the Rules of Procedure, and then I leave and evaluate to see what will be at the end, but then you entered into a debate between your colleagues, Deura, and I think that he was the Prime Minister or someone else, and you were dissatisfied with the way that this debate went down, and I immediately saw that there would be no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here a colleague tried to say something he didn't explain and he got a warning, but no injuries, no, no double criteria. Let's move on, fellow Peovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75488	Good afternoon, I'd like to ask a question, straight to the point, so why keep for a year and a half in your drawer the application of Krass's workers against the Pivac brothers who have come to the stocks by cheating on workers that there will be no layoffs? Why hasn't DORH done anything about it in over a year? Now such owners are entering the highly profitable company Podravka with 6,500 workers, will you do something about it? I would also give you the opportunity to reconsider and answer the already asked question why you are not doing anything about the INU where it has been proven therefore in the corrupt process of INA handed over to the hands of the foreign owner, you cannot answer that it is not yours, your portfolio, meaning an inter-partisan contract with MOL and can certainly be annulled. There it is, there's power in your hands. I asked you about the Brodotrogir workers last year you said the same thing, so there's nothing you can do about it. I think you've got a lot of room for action here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75489	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75490	I will answer this question given that it raises the question of the coat of arms reps related to INA MOL. International arbitration has been agreed by an inter-owned or inter-participation agreement. This was the reason why, in 2014 when we had the first final verdict, the procedure for revoking the contract was not run by the state's attorney's office but was run by a law firm that launched the procedure for international arbitration. It's not about pressing charges, it's about jurisdiction. According to the current and current position of the professors of law, this is jurisdiction, exclusively the jurisdiction of international arbitration and cannot be resolved before domestic courts. In view of the fact that the Law on the State's Attorney's Office has laid down a procedure for the appointment of state lawyers, and here, due to the review against the decision, it is concluded that it will continue to be done by the law offices that have begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75491	Thank you. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75492	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam State Attorney, this is the year 2021, so I ask you, we finally want to welcome justice that the State Attorney's Office is processing the Vukovar operation, that the victim gets at least the satisfaction of the court, that the General Staff of JNA, these partial indictments that you have filed in these recent years and that you have listed in your report, I will remind you only that against Alexander Vasiljevic, General KOS, has been conducted in the County Court of Osijek since 2008, and that until today, nothing has been ruled. If that's the speed, I think they'll all die of natural causes without charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75494	The state's attorney's office is doing everything they can in cooperation with the police and military intelligence. We use every statement of citizens who have and who can tell us something about perpetrators of criminal acts, for the duration of the proceedings before the court, the state's attorney can't answer because we don't manage it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75495	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Col. Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75496	Thank you very much. In 238, you don't need to ask the citizens, MiG 21 who rocketed the Bane Courts of Vehicles is JNA, I asked you why you don't press charges against the top of JNA, not that you have to ask the citizens, so you know who attacked Croatia I think you should know that in 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75497	And you know what awaits you, then another reminder. One more and you'd lose your right to speak. Let's go, colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75498	Respected state's attorney. I have just heard here in the assembly that you are not one item that is crucial and important, and it came to your table in July at all, so I wonder is it possible that one object that is today rocking the Croatian society that is extremely important that you get it on the table without paying attention to the subject, is that possible? And this second question, how is it possible that USKOK has submitted complete documentation to the EU and that today we do not have any documentation on this matter at all, is that possible, I do not understand these two things that have no copy of the documents on Mrs. Žalac's issue?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75499	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75500	There is a certain division of work and specialization in the DORH as well as in all other state attorneys, and it is impossible for a state attorney, and in particular the attorney general, to know and see and see and have each subject under his own control to say so and to have complete insight into it. In that part, he rests on his associates, of course. What happened to this part that you asked about the delivery of documents etc., yes, that's exactly what I asked for approval, but under what circumstances, how and why it happened, it is determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75501	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75502	Thank you very much. Two days ago, you and Mrs. Marusic held a press conference over the software affair and other things, and tried to explain that there was no such thing as your failure or the failure of the DORH and USKOK. At one point, however, Ms. Marusic admitted that there were failures and then you announced that you were looking for surveillance because of the case, Mr. Zalac, but USKOK did not have a copy of the file because they sent the originals to the prosecutor. Is that two days ago for you at the Justice and Anti-Corruption Council meeting today, and now at least because of how it's done? Does Mrs. Marusic still have your support, if she has why and if and when you will relieve her of this disgrace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75503	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75504	I'll make a decision once all the facts are established. If I were uncomfortable with this situation, it's embarrassing to me, of course, that I'm embarrassed, but I've been going with confidence in what I've been told, and now we're doing surveillance, we're determining the facts, and until all the facts are established, I can't make a decision because it would be at least inconclusive on my part, not to say completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75505	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75506	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected state's attorney. Along with all these affairs we experience from day to day this Wednesday, the Osijek judge Zvonko Vekić with the so-called. A friend of hers is in the Remetec Investigation Prison on suspicion that they were laundering money that was intended as bribes to judges by Zdravko Mamić. Zdravko Mamic, a convicted fugitive who told Croatian media yesterday that he had bribed several dozen judges in the Republic of Croatia. Since his allegations about judges from Osijek were obviously established, will the DORH conduct surprise actions in relation to the cases in which Civil Football Club Dinamo participated, Zdravko Mamić as an individual and third participant, or fans, or BBB, who were accused of criminal and criminal cases, whose main opponent was Zdravko Mamić?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75507	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75508	Thanks for asking. This item is also from the jurisdiction of the BUSKOK. Of course, they're going to do the reconnaissances, and Zdravko Mamic, I think everyone knows what kind of person he is, and they wouldn't talk about it, but all of his, we can't judge anyone or prosecute anyone based on someone's statements because those statements have to be checked out, there's got to be material evidence that these statements will confirm, and if it's found, it's definitely going to go on, there's no speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75509	Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75510	Your Honor, I have three questions for the state's attorneys. In your statistics, the following data were missing just to get the impression, and the first question is, how many billion euros or dollars have been missed in the Republic of Croatia because of cases like this? That's the first question. The second question I have for you, how many of these items are still in the drawers because it's an extremely important thing and an extremely important statistic? And third thing, but I'm really interested in that because I've been running projects and working with people, and I'm curious about how you look at it, so your colleagues inside the resistors that you've been leading that 3,000 pages. So someone had to work day and night on these documents, question, so all these people, so you get this report in the 7th month. And absolutely nothing happens. I'm asking you this for reasons of such behavior, so the whole thing is being taken over by all these people who worked day and night, where honest people worked. on such a one-time dispute. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75511	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75512	I can't answer your first question, and I'm sorry, but I've dropped my concentration, if you can repeat the second question that was.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75513	ha, it's also not in line with the Rules of Procedure, which I made impossible the other day, come on, come on, but what, in 2 seconds. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75514	Thank you. I don't know. I don't know, but I do know that he started with the work of the European Prosecutor's Office 1.6, and that when a body begins with work, there are always certain misunderstandings until the proceedings are brought together and... So, what happens after this is checked out, and this is done, then we're going to have a safe meeting, as I've already had with, a conference with the European chief European prosecutor, and we're going to agree on a mode of work and we're going to send it to the field so that these things don't repeat, that people can check and see because, things aren't as simple as they seem in the first wave, but in any case, we're going to go with a new direction and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] reach agreement on cooperation or mode of work between [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75515	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75516	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the attorney general. Telegram journalist Andrej Dimitrijevic discovered the case of Zalac. Had it not been for journalist Andrej Dmitryjevic, the case would not have been discovered, nor would the proceedings of the European prosecutor have been initiated. Croatia would obviously be a much better place to live if, for example, the head of USKOK was Andrej Dimitrijevic. How do you feel next to the notorious fact that the work of DORH and USKOK is better done by Andrej Dimitrijevic, free journalism and investigative journalists? Isn't that what you're ashamed of?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75517	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75518	Very often, very often investigative journalists help DORH and USKOK discover and collect evidence related to the crimes committed. What happened here and what the position is, it doesn't mean that I have to automatically say that if there is, in fact, a state law on the State's Attorney's Office, a law on courts, a great one, we have to distinguish whether there's been a mistake, whether it's an administrative error or a wrong legal opinion. No one can answer for the wrong legal opinion. Yes, if that is the wrong legal opinion of intent and consciously and deliberately something has been done, then it is something that enters both the area of crime and the criminal zone. But I can't tell you any more than I told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75519	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Jaksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75520	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected state's attorney. So again a little bit about Agrokor. A key question after 4 years of working on this case, which is now a hodogram and what is the plan and when can we expect the corrections needed in art and resolution as you have stated, any irregularities in the indictment itself? A very long time has passed, if everything works out, the file will be very large, and I think it would help us all a lot to know after a difficult skill error, how long it will take us to fix it now and just one other question, how much time has been lost because it is not right, to deal with the case of Prosecutor Alleric Puklin, because already a year ago on the JANAF case we had information and doubts that there are various interests about this lady who unfortunately have now surfaced, not only in JANAF but also in Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75521	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75522	I think it's too early to talk about an art error. I think that for the time being, none of us do, we believe that the art of art was done according to the rules of the profession because everyone involved in it gave a statement of independence. As for the former deputy county state attorney, at the moment she was not focused on investigation and research but on her husband because of his connection with Kovacevic and the Janaf affair. Since it was hundreds of pages, it was impossible for the transcripts, as they were read and analyzed, so there were these data and, of course, the results of the search. I'm taking you back to what you're all expecting, but people, we've got 30 deputies in USKOK. In the entire state's attorney's office, the entire state's attorney's office. There are 680 people for citizens and these things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75523	Thank you. Comrades Rakar-Gamulin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75524	I thank Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. State's attorney. You said on the Justice Committee today that your position to do dirty laundry inside the DORH is to be dealt with in public for transparency. Well, can you tell us if and how many DORH employees were suspended in 2020 or received warnings about errors in their work? Then, can you tell us exactly what the number of investigations was distracted by what they were, for example? The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75525	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75526	Thank you. I'll start with this last one. I have no knowledge, no information, no information at all, that, let alone evidence, that political pressure and influence would be put on someone to make such a decision or decision. When you ask me about how many people are being tried against, we had and have, in 2020, still, some at the end, 6 tight procedures and, of course, now in '21. We're coming to this investigation against the former deputy county attorney. As I said, I repeat now, I expect that, given what MP Jaksic asked, it is expected that by the end of the year some more strict procedure will be launched and I think we are taking care of it And we talk and we work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75527	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75528	Ma'am. Hrvoje Šipek, your predecessor Mladen Bajic, although 70, is still active in the service. That gentleman is one of the main culprits for spreading corruption during Eva Sanader. The Bajevic was openly protecting corruption, and there are indications that he himself participated in it in the event of a benefit in the project of Dubrovnik's Sun Gardens. He also committed a crime of high treason when in the Ovcar case, or when the Ovcara case, the biggest crime after II. svt. war handed over to the Serbian judiciary. So it would be like if they were allies in '45. hired Hitler's State's Attorney's Office for the Nuremberg Process. Tell me, please, why you still have that Bajic in the DORH, i.e. Why didn't you prosecute him for those illegalities he did? Do you have any fear of the gentleman in question? Is he blackmailing you? A person with such a list of offences in no regulated state could work in the public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75530	Mr. Bajic neither blackmails nor scares me, through our work together in recent years, we've had a lot of conflict, and if you follow my statements, then you'll see in the last year that I said, until a political decision is made on the high state's attorney's office, it's very difficult for me to decide how many people, people, are gone. Tamara Laptoš is gone, Sani Ljubicicic is gone, pal Palijas is gone, now I can't even remember how many people left DORH and given his experience, yes, I made a deal with him on a work that lasts until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75531	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75532	Yes, Mr. Chairman, the humiliation of Parliamentarians, Art. 238, so if you are unable to remember what you were asked, write or in any case, as you did with your colleague Troscott, ask again what you said. So you didn't look back on the Ovcar case or the corruption case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75533	My colleague Vidović Kristo, you are being warned because this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's your turn, colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75534	Thank you, Chairman. Personally, I'm also very prone to Uskok and DORH as bodies. I don't think there's a state without a state's attorney's office. The state is worth as much to us as DORH and USKOK can revive and achieve the rule of law, and on the other hand, if citizens in these bodies don't trust, and especially if they don't trust for a reason, then the whole state isn't really worth anything to us, and we're in this state right now. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that trust is lost and that it is less important that you determine in the investigation you are conducting in relation to the Director of USKOK, you cannot escape from your own responsibility because you can no longer carry out your function in the way in which those objectives which DORH in a society should be achieved can be achieved. But it's not just your fault. A policy which has not changed the laws for years is responsible for the situation in USKOK and DORH, does not change the structure of internal supervisory bodies And do not do anything to advance your [[Intruder: Thank you.]] status. [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues Oreshković]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75535	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75536	I'm aware that the question of how much will the results of the surveillance affect, but I just need to determine the objective facts and what's going on. Without that, any other decision is irresponsible and cannot make it, it is unacceptable to make a decision on the basis of a flat-rate assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75537	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75538	Thank you. The Honorable Attorney General, 26.5.2020, you took an oath in HS and we would like to remind you then of your spoken words. I am firmly convinced that by my work devoted, I will prove that DORH is an independent body in which citizens can trust. My question is, what went wrong? You're neither independent nor independent, and citizens have less and less confidence in your institutions. When will you resign, tell the Croatian public, or do you think you are dealing well with everything that is going on in your work?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75539	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75540	I'm independent and I'm independent. The expectations of fulfilling someone's wishes and attitudes, independence and independence are reflected in this decision-making on the basis of facts, objective facts that are set out in the process, not what is written in the media and what is relevant to someone at a certain point, whether it is interested or political groups. I understand your position, too, but I'm sorry, I'm an independent person, I'm not a puppet at the end, because if someone were to count, eventually, they'd find that more HDZ officials were processed during my term than others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75541	Comrade Simičević, here you go. Comrade Bauk, you've just arrived, and I can hear you already, I'm begging you a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75542	I'd like to thank the president of HS, the esteemed state's attorney. This is actually a report on the operation of the DORH, but apparently someone in this assembly is not the aim of the Report, but you. From what I've had the opportunity to read, it's obvious that there's been a lot of work done and that there's actually been a settlement of 230 thousand objects. Here we should also commend the people who did it all. My question to you is first, no. 1 with education, do you think, should we educate people more, given that examples of good practice from the world give us the right to perhaps achieve an even better result and question No. 2, when we solve war crimes. It certainly won't be good if it's another 30 years without solving war crimes. And let's team up, head group and solve that problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75543	Here's your answer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Nadj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75544	Thank you very much. My friend, do you think that we Parliamentarians and MPs are really stupid not to see that there's been a lot of work done in the DORH and USCOC? But a cow that gives a lot of milk and kicks an entire bucket of milk then It's not good either. [[Intruder: Comrades Nadj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75545	What the hell was that? So what kind of behavior is that? You've been in the Parliament a long time, you know the rules, what's this all about? Please, you're getting a warning. Here's your answer. Come on, not now, let's not suck now, this was an unnecessary outburst that I don't understand at all why it happened. Well, of course not, that's why I gave the warning, of course. Here's your answer. Here's the state's attorney, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75546	The DORH has continued to work on education, both young colleagues and thus on lifelong training. The application and acquisition of new skills simply cannot be done without them, as doctors must perfect themselves in, thanks to new technology, the same thing is with state lawyers. I think it's in the file that over 80% of the state's attorneys and deputies took part in education, went to exchanges. Here, one colleague is going to the CEPOL project right now, four years is going out. The colleagues work in, on projects in Albania and other countries, so not only are they educated, but they are respected experts abroad and are recognised in other and DORH, its work and, of course, the work of USKOK actually enjoys great trust and great respect in other countries, unlike what we face in our own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75547	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75548	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the esteemed state's attorney. So it's not easy for you. Being at the head of a body like that isn't easy. It's hard and there's absolutely, if we want to be realistic, we have to say it. But your work is public, your work is evaluated, of course, that all eyes are against the DORH and BUSKE when we have certain objects that call for a real public inquiry. You know, all the research that I'm talking about, when I'm talking about a much wider subject of the judiciary, that it's about bad, that people have a bad perception, and you're at the top of that pyramid, and simply, the responsibility on you is great. You have a long experience in DORH, I'm interested, and I'm not going to ask you for everything, but let's just say, in the last 10 years, when should we evaluate the work of the DORH, with a score of 1 to 10, what grade would you give? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75549	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75550	What grade would you give? I haven't thought about it in the last 10 years, and now you've asked an interesting question, but I think you'd put it on the average of those 10 years to put it on one good seven. 7-8.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75551	Thank you. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75552	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Hrvoje-Šipek, please answer us here, so we have two financial perhaps most difficult affairs in Croatia's history, which are the case of "The Great Agrokor" and the case "Borg". Currently, both of these cases on the DORH have been killed, and it has dropped the indictment in the case of "The Great Agrokor", and "Borg" has already been dropped. However, what is interesting and I ask you to answer that question, and is it true that already last fall several deputy county attorneys who worked on the Agrokor case have written a note that there are no conditions for bringing charges in the case of the Great Agrokor? For which reason the public has not been informed and why not repeat the case "Borg" and open the case "Borg", because if there is no case "The Great Agrokor", then it certainly has the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75553	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75554	I must first of all repeat what I have already said, giving up the "Agrokor" course does not exist. We're not giving up on the subject. In no way did any information come to me that my colleagues felt that this case would not succeed and that he was having problems with it. It is true that this is an extremely complex case, that there are several items, I have scheduled this, coordination meeting, I will engage, at this meeting are colleagues who have been and made decisions in '18. Sir, when the whole case has begun and with common forces, we will bring this matter to an end. We'll see what happens. It's very difficult for me at this point to speculate after the whole analysis is carried out whether it will be, which will be further. But, specifically, what's to be done is better to say so, but there's no giving up. There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75555	Thank you. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75556	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Respected chief state attorneys, regardless of the indicators in the report on the success of the work of the state attorneys, are certain that even events that are current ask certain questions. What I'd like for the public to say here is how does every deputy state attorney make a decision? Whether he has to consult with his direct boss, whether he has to listen to him in that case or make a decision on his own, and on the other hand, I'm wondering if, at what intervals you're working to monitor the municipal or county state attorneys, whether only if there are reports or if you have regular controls, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75557	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75558	Thank you. The State Attorney's Office Act guarantees any alternate absolute independence and independence in the decision-making process. A state attorney can only give him a written order, if he disagrees with his opinion, and the warrant actually refers to carrying out additional evidence actions and not making a decision. The state's attorney doesn't have the authority to order what the decision will be. As far as supervision is concerned, the law stipulates that supervision should be carried out over the County and lower state attorneys every 3 years. For objective reasons, it hasn't been done in a few years. And that's why now, this year, but we're little, I think not a bit, but it's significantly influenced by the pandemic, which is why surveillance can't be carried out directly, I'm currently saying, there's an ongoing surveillance of Zagreb, the civil management department.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75559	I'm a colleague of Boric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear state attorneys, if you haven't noticed, there is a State Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia that you run, and there is also in the assembly of our national assembly court, which judges daily. He's here for the pay phone and he's doing it very quickly in the fast process. So a brief charge and a quick verdict, no trial and no rights of the accused to defend himself. Because 90% of those who say they're not agents and they can't defend themselves. These 10% that are MPs, they come back very easily and they give up. So are you. If you've noticed, you've already been convicted. At first, you said you were guilty. Because they estimate you're not doing your job right. Now I'm interested in something else. So we had the Olaf case, one case. But here, four months ago, we also removed immunity at the request of Olaf, one of the other MPs, our colleague, and he sees miracles there's no reaction. We don't know if there's been an indictment, if there's any reconnaissance and nothing's going on. Is Olaf asleep or the state's attorney's office and I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75561	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75562	On the removal, i.e. the request for the removal of immunity to the representative you are talking about, was submitted directly by the European Prosecutor's Office in Luxembourg and the State's Attorney's Office in no way or has insight or knowledge of what is taking place in that office. It's just that... So this one, they're absolutely independent and exclusively under Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75563	A colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your report, you also state indeed the county and municipal state attorney's office in Sibenik has very poor working conditions. These spaces are derutable, dislocated, there are no conditions for smooth work or for necessary new employment. Tell me what is being done and when I can expect better conditions for work that are naturally reflected in the number of cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75565	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75566	Thank you very much. This year, the adaptive building of the Sibenik court is now being moved to and from the civil section that was dislocated and in that building, they can freely call it the ruins of the building, because it was a problem to set up an installation at all because of its instability and age, so the conditions are much better now, but we still have a lot of spatial problems related to other state attorneys and their work, and ultimately in this, the biggest problem will be accommodation, permanent accommodation and reconstruction of the building for the needs of the future municipal civil lawyer. Finally, the building of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is one-third out of function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75567	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75568	I thank you, Mr. President, for your esteemed attorney general. This morning, just before in fact, we heard from an opposition representative that it doesn't matter if stopping an investigation in the case of Software is the result of a single prosecutor's or state's attorney's mistake, or the result of political pressure. So that's an infatuating statement. In fact, the work can be wrong and wronged humanly. But that mistake in such cases is a request and a sanction that you have announced if surveillance determines it. And if that were the result of political pressure, then it would be a huge affair in Croatia. So I'm interested, and I'm going to ask you a question. In your case, here are 18 months of work as chief state attorneys, interested, whether anyone from the executive authority, on you personally, including the prime minister, the minister of justice or another minister, or one of the HDZ members and officials has ever exerted any political pressure. To process someone or give up the process in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75569	Thank you very much, thank you, Comrade Bacic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75570	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75571	Thank you very much. Then we'll go to the next line. My colleague Brumnic, he's going to merge with the video, do you hear us? Let's ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75572	Good afternoon. Nice greeting to the president of the assembly and the state's attorney. I was thinking of replicating the case of the Mockingbird and the Agrokor case. As colleagues have previously replicated on the same subject and pointed to problems, I would ask the State's attorney if she really thinks that none of us read the materials and read the laws from which any decision should be made. You mentioned here two state attorneys who practically, you say, you don't know what they were doing. And according to Article 74. The State's Attorney's Law, in fact, is you who need to control it, manage it, and it's practically your responsibility to do what's going on in these cases. You've now decided, it seems to me, to liquidate the Director of the Jump.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75573	Thank you, colleague Brumnic, time is up
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75574	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75575	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75576	This Regulation shall enter The Law on State Attorney's Office has been elaborated on the Rules of Procedure of the State Attorney's Office, which is adopted by the Minister of Justice, and he clearly speaks of the obligation of the lower State's attorneys to notify all matters of importance to the State's Attorney's Office or of the State's interest, with an emphasis on the matters of the jurisdiction of the civil management department to the State's attorney, thus informing the County and the latter, ultimately, of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75577	And we're going to the last line. Be my guest, Bauk. Someone needs to shut down. My colleague Bačić, you have a microphone on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75578	Thank you. This debate is also an opportunity for all officials, judicial officials in the municipality, the County and the State's Attorney General who are doing a responsible and honest job to thank for their hard work and for the poor work of the minority. That's how you feel about Hajduk. Junior teams are good, pioneering alike, but the main one hasn't won the championship in 15 years and that's what hurts. When I was young and crazy then I called one of the Attorney General Stan Bajic for holding the case in drawers. In the meantime, I grew up a little, but I didn't come around. Namely, the impression now is that Mrs. Laptoš's Attorney General, and that you, Madam Chief State Attorney, have become a secondary State Attorney, is such an impression and you will have to do a lot to make that impression change. My question is: Have you talked to anyone from the Executive Authority about your appointment before you were appointed and notified to the Public Call? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75579	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75580	Before my appointment, I spoke to the Minister of Justice at the time. Before the call, before the call. [[- You can't hear me.]] It was logical to talk to the Minister of Justice and hear what his opinion of my work was.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75581	I thank the State's Attorney. We've come to an end with replicas so you can go back to your place. We're now going to the government's representative told us he doesn't want to talk right now. Have a seat, and now we'll have the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor if they want. Yeah. The first will be counterpart Michel Jaksic, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75582	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Justice at its morning session, which was shared with the Anti-Corruption Council, concluded that most of the votes were accepted by the report on the work of the National Lawyers for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75583	Short and clear. Thank you, too. The president of the National Council will now speak for monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, a respected counterpart, Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75584	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Attorney General. So, colleagues and colleagues, since the Attorney General had here, so this report was presented. I won't repeat what she said before the Anti-Corruption Council, but I'll tell this one what the members of the National Council said in the debate. In the debate, the members of the National Council asked whether the Attorney General was in accordance with Article. 74 The Law on State Attorney's Office was informed of the situation in the case of Žalac. The Attorney General replied that the report was found when it took office in May 2020, and the State of the case report was received in the DORH earlier. 12 February 2020 The main state attorney has reported that it is currently under surveillance in relation to the case against Gabriela Žalac in the USKOK, and will decide on this after the supervision has been completed. Members have set up whether the Ministry of Justice has approved the employment of special financial investigators, and has new vehicles been approached for the needs of the State's attorneys? The chief state attorney replied that the first financial investigators are already employed, and that new tenders are ongoing and new vehicles have been approached. Members commented that a major shift in the establishment of a CTS system is a system that allows parties in procedures to get better insight into cases. They noted that there was an increase in criminal charges for rape compared to 2019 over 100%, which was partly conditioned by amendments to the Criminal Law, and were they interested in whether there was a possibility of follow-up? How many decisions have been made in relation to a solid number of decisions to take advantage of the property? They expressed concern with the poor percentage of the success of the State's attorneys in trade disputes. The members of the National Council also sought the resignations of the Attorney General for failing to perform their duties and expressed their opinion that this was the only way to restore confidence in the work of the State's attorneys. After the debate was held, the National Council decided, with 5 votes in favour of and 2 votes, to propose to the Croatian Assembly to reach the following conclusion: "The report of the General State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the State Courts in 2020 is not accepted." And with 4 votes for and 3 votes, the National Council decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the following conclusion: "It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, in accordance with the provision of Article 28. The law on the State's Attorney's Office shall submit a proposal for the resolution of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75585	Now we'll move on to the debate. So far, 10 clubs have come forward and we have 22 individual debates. So we'll be working until 13 o'clock clubs, then we'll have a free speech, and then we'll move on with the clubs and the individual debates immediately. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. A colleague of Sacic and a colleague of Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75586	Thank you, well-respected President, Madam Chief State Attorney, Associates, Ministers, Secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Here we have the opportunity to discuss the very important work of an extremely important national security body for the stability of the Republic of Croatia. It would be like at the time of the fiercest attacks during the Homeland Defence War, we need, meaning the state summit, President Tudjman, the main headquarters to discuss the impact and contribution of the most selective forces of defence in the war, as this depends on the fate of Croatia in the war. It is precisely about the work of the state's attorneyship, as an extremely important, important state-level repressive body, whose constitution guarantees independence and freedom, law-bindingness, in peace, that such a body is the strongest, most strongly, fully in charge of stability, order, power, justice which is said to be one of the constitutional legal categories in the Republic of Croatia. What does this society have to do with us? Every society, including our Croatian, should invest everything in their ability to secure their work, or to make it good for all of us. However, reading the report today and yesterday and these days on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, everything can be understood... Otherwise, the report is excellent, the report is excellent, it exceeds the frameworks of expectations, professionally analytically, judgmentally, however, you entered both excellently and in the domain of critical reference to the criminal policy of our courts, and I am pleased. You've given a cut to the State's Attorney's Council and I'm glad to hear that. But the essence of this report is these three lists and they say that as much as and how the State's Attorney's Office copes with material financial and other difficulties and problems in its daily work. And there's a disaster and thanks to that particular annex on the page. 224 and these several lists, we unfortunately come to the conclusion both here in the assembly and the Croatian public and the professional public, that the body that is most responsible, most responsible for the security and stability of the Republic of Croatia has its hands tied by precisely those who need to be given the greatest incentive and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, who cares for them. Because if in, today, we are 30 years from the independence of the Homeland War, regardless of the earthquake, regardless of the covid, we should face this report with the fact that they don't have official vehicles, that they have no information system, that they don't have anywhere to work, that they don't have buildings, that they don't have the most important, professional people for financial investigations, that they don't have the coefficients and the wages to pay the people who are going to do it. So what we can conclude rather than that the government does not want that body objectively, optimally performs its tasks, more and more and more, because in that one year alone, the body earns more than 2 billion kunas and pays in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government and the Ministry of Justice is paying them back $442 million, please. And they worry at the same time, these 30 people, I don't really want to sacralize their work, but I have to say, that out of those 30 people in the DORH, it depends on whether the Republic of Croatia at one point in time before the arbitration authorities that are facing arbitration will lose or gain a slow weight of at least 14 billion kuna to the highest, potentially if Lex Agrokor falls, 60 billion. And these people, if we're not able to ensure they're doing their job, that it says here that the Department of Justice doesn't want to confirm their competition, that they don't want to fill the jobs they have in BOOK, so that's what we're talking about. Madam Chief State Attorney, it is yours today to say, that, that and that Croatian society did not provide me, as Mr. Klier said this morning. And if you want to criticize me and resolve me, we will decide how subjective it is and how objective it will be done. But before that, please, it is your duty and duty to say, the Croatian politicians who have lived and worked here for 15, 20 years have not done everything to ensure optimal work, the most complex and responsible institutions for the security of Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75587	Now he's going to speak to his colleague, Skoro, as we speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected state attorney, State Secretary and Associates. Here's where the Sacic herd is today. I'll try to extend. I'd say that cut or copy and paste it was obviously a methodology for making this report. The only thing I noticed right away on the first page was this lectured by the Institute of Languages and Linguistics, and I don't think this report would have gone past, except of course numbers that aren't identical, but it wouldn't have passed any university software, which determines the authenticity of any work. However, in this debate, I will refer to another report that can be associated with this, which is a report from Brussels on 20 July this year, a report on the rule of law for 2021, a chapter for Croatia, because we can find things in the DORHA report, unfortunately we cannot. The report says that the level of perception of independence and justice in the general public has deteriorated and remains among the lowest in the EU. According to the 2020 Corruption Perception Index published by Transparens International, Croatia has 47 out of 100 possible points and we are 63 places in the world. In the last year, the report said, investigations conducted by the state's attorneys and the Hopkok extended. The average duration of first-degree criminal proceedings in municipal courts was 733 days, and in county 804, for example, the Fimi media lasted in the 11-year process. And here I think we're getting to that key part of your report, because as last year, there's no concrete data on specific cases. I think we are missing this and it would be good for the state of the nation and our society, because it would certainly be a good Demographic measure because perhaps many who are thinking about leaving would give back hope that there is hope in this country, however, we can somehow create a country where no party card will apply to hiring and getting any job. We can improve the framework for transparency of information, let's say, owned by the media, because they report selectively on the outcomes of the trial investigation, and one day we had a chance to read, let's say that the former MORH Chief who received the bribe for the remont moments was sentenced to 3 years in prison. So it's an important thing and it's good that things like that happen, just that in public it doesn't go as well as it should be noticed enough. So something's going on, but it's not in your report. All of us are still waiting and we do not know what is going on with JANAF, Slovenia 9, with wind power plants, with former President of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with a board of directors, whom some purchases of trucks, planes, trains, tractors, privatisation of banks, tunnels, ships, ports and unfortunately whether it is with a ruined oil company. After all, I've filed at least two criminal charges for you this year, but neither you nor the postcard nor the letter. So you need to know that neither you nor those who have placed on this function should fear for the rating of the ruling party in the public, although the more affairs and crime revealed the rating is getting better, at least that's what the agencies and the media say and ultimately a little suggestion. The Foreign Political Committee of the European Parliament adopted a report on the fight against organised crime in the Western Balkans, which, among other things, asks Croatia to open the file of the Yugoslav secret services as soon as possible to eradicate the political and administrative ties of the former totalitarian system with organised crime that has stricken us and destroyed this country from loneliness. According to the report, the Committee states that links between organised crime and business existed before Yugoslavia fell apart and continued after the 1990s. So, if you were a little bit more specific about how the children of communism came into a situation where they were really ruling the economic space of Croatia, and that's why I'd like you to be a little more specific and see that you're working on one program with IBM which is good, because in some way it's been pointed out that we're a little behind the rest of Europe, you just have to be careful with that cooperation that one of the co-workers might not have been riding on a horse as a 14-year-old so if we had that problem, at least I would have had that problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75589	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs. Vesna Nadj, Mr. Nikola Grumoja, excuse me, who will be representing the views of the Bridge, the representative of the Most, the Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75590	Here's the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I came to this joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Anti-Corruption Council this morning to prepare some questions in which the Attorney General would ask when she signed the decision on the conduct of surveillance in the case of Zalac? Why was she waiting so long for her if the 14th November Laptoš publicly confirmed that the European Public Prosecutor's Office received information about Zalac from OLAF and not from the DORH, but this is how today somehow went the day. Now are we lucky, meaning we are in opposition or can be said in fact that the entire Croatian public and the Croatian people were lucky, because we have finally come to all the important information and arguments that cause us no longer to doubt that the main state attorney should leave, and I will repeat what I have asked and question. So, on 26 May 2020, Mrs. Zlata Zlata Hrvoje Šipek swears to the Attorney General. On my question at the Anti-Corruption Council, how could it have happened that she claimed not to have been introduced and at the Press Conference with Mrs. Marusic? How was it possible that she claimed that she was not familiar with the case of Žalac where Mrs. Marusic interrupted her and reminded her of Article 74 that she was familiar. At that time, we could see one bewildered person of the Attorney General after that intervention by Ms. Marusic when he was actually not only on the basis of this article of the Law, but on the basis of the information we have, 12 February 2020 means the Attorney General was informed of this case. The attorney general replied that it was 3 months before she entered, more than 3 months before she took office and that she could not get acquainted with those items that had come to the General State's Attorney's desk. But in my replica here, I don't know if you've all heard, and it's important to repeat it for the public, I've asked the Attorney General that I have information that she was informed in July 2021 of this case, or that USCOK has sent a report to the Attorney General on the case. The attorney general said it was true, that the report from the USKOK came to the Attorney General, but that she didn't see it. Imagine the irresponsibility at the very least. So, if it was done on purpose, it was actually a criminal offence, and if it wasn't intentional, so if she, I don't know, didn't open that file that came to her from the USKOK as the State's Attorney General, it's the same for resigning because it shows in what way she's carrying out her duties irresponsiblely. So we no longer need to discuss whether Zlata Hrvoje Šipek can remain the Attorney General, but it is only a matter of when here, the Presidency of the Parliament, the Vice-President, the President of the Parliament will call for a vote, or when the Government will first direct it and the President of the Parliament invite us to vote on the resolution of the State's Attorney General. What's frustrating me and why I'm unhappy is so many e-mails, so many messages from Croatian citizens asking me to bring their case here. So, dear people I can't all your cases, all the illegalities of not acting as chief attorney and state attorney here in this short time, but what I can actually testify is and personally that not only because of the case of the Gralac, but because of a number of cases I personally witnessed, I can responsibly claim that the State's Attorney's Office is working on the orders of the Bane Courts. As far as I could hear from this debate, the main state attorney admitted that even before the announcement of the invitation to tender, she had talked to the Minister of Justice, which means that she received a blessing from the Government and the HDZ, before she answered the competition, before the HS discussed it, and that this protection we see today by the HDZ, means the work of the chief state attorney actually shows that she is not only their choice but that they are now returning to her because of all the services she has done to them, because that the European Public Prosecutor's Office has not been involved through OLAF, and not through our DORH and USKOL Gabriela Tsalac today would not be hit by independent institutions, she would be free and no one in the Croatian public would have talked about the case of Gralac and the case of the Gralac. So, it is quite clear that in that case, you have deliberately covered up and covered up this crime, that you have not launched this case, you can only take it out that you are simply a completely irresponsible person who even wrote to you a report on certain cases involving senior officials of Plenkovic's government you did not find fit or look at because you yourself said you didn't even look at it even though it was sent to you, but it also shows that you are no longer an adequate person for this function. I've been fighting with the state's attorney-general and your predecessors for a long time, and I've been handing you documentation on serious crime and embezzlement in our embassies, not only that, but I have an e-mail in which our diplomats negotiate fraud, I have confessions from the Anti-Corruption Council where these frauds and violations of the rules are recognised. What did DORH do in that case? He also dismissed a criminal application on the day I asked Plenkovic about it. There is no longer any doubt that the DORH and HDZ, the DORH and the ruling majority are connected with the umbilical cord, are involved in the cover-up of crime, that unfortunately in Croatia people who do not have a political background, who have no money or anything else, and that if we watch the work of our DORH will get away with it. As a person who would like the Croatian institutions to function, it would be much preferable for these items to be processed by our institutions, and not for us to be ashamed in front of European institutions, for foreign institutions to arrest our high-level officials, it certainly is not nice to look at it, but here it is, I guess, the only thing we have left of justice. And as I said in a stop I called on behalf of the club, it is quite clear that the DORH is impossible to reform, that such a DORH with such leadership should be fully demonized and independent institutions that will break all ties with political elites, with the ruling elite and with the government of Andrej Plenkovic. And when you leave this post as the state's chief attorney, it's very likely that someone will remember you filed criminal charges against you for the cover-up of crime, and now file those criminal charges in which we report Gold would be more than naive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75591	Mrs. Vena Nadj will speak in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief state attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the State Attorney General's report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2020. There is no doubt that Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šepek and her associates have made considerable administrative efforts to produce this report on 230 pages with a number of statistics and analyses, but you could say after all these affairs around DORH and USKOK in vain the efforts of your players. As referred to in the report, Article 1(1) shall apply. 121.a The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is an independent and independent judicial body, authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. The question is whether the DORH and USKOK were indeed an independent and independent judicial body, in view of the affair of former Minister Žalac, whether they had carried out their duties under the constitutional provision under the legal jurisdiction in 2020. It's hard to respond positively. The USKOK corruption and organised crime control office is a special state attorney's office established for the Republic of Croatia and has its headquarters in Zagreb. The work of USKOK is managed by the director appointed by the chief state attorney, with the previous opinion of the justice minister and the opinion of the DORH College, but the question is whether the work of the USKOK is managed by the director without the political influence of the rulings? Yesterday, after denying the responsibility of the chief state attorney and director of USKOK, we have a media bomb that the chief state attorney has decided to resolve Vanja Marusic's duties as Director of UskoK and the sparrows on the border, it is clear that the replacement of USKOK's director would take place because of an affair of software in which USKOK did not open an investigation against former Minister Gabriela Žalac, but was done by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We remind ourselves of that famous press where both the chief state attorney and the director of USKOK publicly disgraced themselves by trying to wash off the responsibility that it was degutant for listening and watching instead of both immediately resign and apologized to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who paid them to act against the perpetrators of the crimes, they carried out legal pirates and therefore followed the rescue who, who can also blame the child and the director of USKOK. Well, ma'am. Chief State Lawyers Zlata Hrvoj Šipek it is not moral for you because your responsibility is, if you didn't know, you had to know that such an important jumping object fits in their drawers 2.g. and that nothing is done until the European Public Prosecutor's Office has taken over, and the case is the subject of capital because it is the former Minister Gabriela Žalac. Shame on the DORH, shame on UskoK, shame on you and on this HS who appointed you. I remind you that before this HS you have sworn an oath among other things that you will promote the reputation of the state's attorney's office, and the reputation of the state's attorney's office is ugly to the lowest branches. It's full of the media of the DORH affair and the USKOK as if you're in charge of entertaining citizens, not raising charges of criminal acts, and whether it's the grandmother of Dolca who sells grincek or former Minister Žalac. But apparently some are privileged even though they obviously blacked out millions and have a HDZ party card and pedgre in party bodies. And that we do not have any recent media affairs on the case of former Minister Žalac, withdrawing the indictment in the case of Agrokor because of the indictment from which the girls, the water leaks out of hollow barrels on suspicion that the witches are in conflict of interest, the situation that the defendants who smudged from Croatia are laughing at us that out of the comfort of their Bosnian-Herzegovic grandean fairies agree with the accusations of corrupted judge and the denomination of Ivica Todorovic from their Kulmer Court for the incompetence of the attorney's office we could pretend deaf and blind and agree with the positive opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report. But in light of these affairs, it is completely irrelevant that, at the end of 2020, 1824 people were employed by all state attorneys, of which 638 state lawyers and their deputies. It must be acknowledged that this is an impressive number of state lawyers and their deputies as well as civil servants, but still remains unsolved at the end of 2020, unsettled 41,065 cases, and how many of these capital cases such as the case of the Žalac. In 2020, a total of 15,306 convictions were passed, with 386 convictions higher than the previous period when 14,920 were adopted, for each commendation. But in fact, from the presentation and work of USKOK, it is apparent that a total of 1,719 criminal charges were received during the reporting period, representing a 25.93% increase compared to the previous reporting period and in the structure of those cases, the largest number of applications concerned the criminal offence of abuse of position and authority, and only because of that crime was 63% of the total number of applications submitted. What does this information indicate? It points to the fact that more and more officials are using their position or authority primarily to benefit themselves or the other person, although in accordance with the Penal Code, prison sentences are prevented from 6 months to 5 years. We have the latest example of Osijek's Judge Vekic, who is suspected of money laundering, but the worst part is that a fugitive from the Croatian judiciary, not the DORH and USKOK, pointed out to receive bribes. The government's positive opinion on this report states that although the data and indicators provided in general indicate an increase in the alertness in the work and conduct of the state's attorney's office for the purposes of the municipal, county and state attorneys' investigations for more than 18 months, and that in the cases covered by the USKOK's jurisdiction, the number of investigations lasting longer than 6 months was increased compared to the previous year, and that the government proposes to take additional measures and actions in the coming period to further increase the effectiveness in the work by shortening the time of State's decision-making in criminal matters, in particular in the cases of the competence of the USKOK, and to ensure the highest level of effectiveness in the proceedings. This is a typical bureaucratic phrase used when institutions are not effectively doing their job in their jurisdiction instead of improving radical reforms by not throwing themselves into empty phrases. How can the state's chief attorney claim that she didn't know she was 2. They are conducting reconnaissances in the case of Žalac, and USKOK concluded in the end that the case was not mature for the prosecution, and the European Public Prosecutor's Office launched an investigation and sought an investigative prison for Gabriela Žalac and for the head of SAFU Tomislav Petric. Instead of doing their job by pressing charges against the perpetrators of the crimes, the indictments are allotted to us by various mothers and various Todorics. No wonder that the judge Vekic and his friend, instead of washing the laundry, are laundering huge money. And now the state's attorney-in-chief would like to show that the damage has been resolved, but it hasn't. Save yourself, drown the Director of the Jump, and it won't work. Well, there's no harm done, the justice barrel is still a lot of holes, it's draining taxpayers' money into private pockets, and you're the top state attorneys of the Golden Croatian Ship unable to get DORH and USCOD out of the living mud. That's why the Social Democrats Club won't support this report, thumb down for the report and for you state's attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75593	Thank you, too. We have time for another club. Mr. Peja Grbin will present the views of SDP's Club of Representatives after which we will be represented by representatives of the Club of Representatives, free speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75594	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished Attorney General, the esteemed Secretary of State. Today we are discussing the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office in 2020, but also on the basis of a proposal for a conclusion from the SDP's Club of Representatives today we are also discussing the initiation of the appeal procedure of the General State Lawyers, because the Croatian Parliament will have to vote on this. Among other things, they will have to vote on this on the basis of the debate we are having today. And why are we looking for that? Because in these years and a half since the start of its mandate at the head of the important institution, not only has it not been able to run the State's Attorney's Office to work better, but there has been a degradation in the work of the complete system. And I want to say that what I'm talking about is not an attack on all of the State's attorneys their deputies, advisors and everyone else who works in that system. However, there are many hardworking people who would like to do their job, who are aware of what is happening around them, but simply because of what comes from the top of the institution they cannot do. They're disabled in that. And those who are not happy about their work are not prevented from doing so, which is one of the powers that the State's attorney, the State's Attorney General, has. The main state's attorney is the only one, I'm lying, the only one with the Minister of Justice who can initiate a tight procedure against everyone in the system, and she's almost no use to her authority as well as the Minister of Justice and thus does not encourage those who are irresponsiblely doing their job to change. This does not move those who harm him from the system, so in Croatia, those who have tied themselves with the criminals work in the persecution of crime positions. And if that wasn't an empty story, it shows us the AGROKOR case, shows us the case of the prosecutor who leaked information from the investigation, and when the opposition asked us to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament and to investigate whether it exists and how it works and how widespread it is, while ruling said no, there is no need for it. Everything's fine in the system, and we know it's not. However, the main subject which led to this request to initiate the recall procedure is the subject of Gabriele Žalac. And two huge, I'm going to be benevolent and say the failures that took place in that case. One is keeping it in a drawer, we all know about it, and it's very simple to understand. You take an object that you don't want to get rid of, you put it in a drawer, and it squats there, and then in the report that we're being delivered, you say that in 2020, you solved everything except one item, and then everything is clear and you write that one item was solved in January 2021. So, brothers, how did you solve the case if you came to the press a week ago and you said there was no material to make a measurement decision in Mrs. Rusac's case, and in the report, you wrote dead cold that you'd solved everything. Well, either he's lying to the press or he's lying to the report, because both of them can't tell the truth. However, the second failure is equally important, but equally important, because it shows the willingness to break the law and in those situations which can cause enormous financial damage to Croatia compared to the institutions of the European Union. Because the rule of law as we have the opportunity to listen intensively these days to the formation of a new German government, because the new German Foreign Minister announces that he will take great care of it. The rule of law in the European Union is today directly linked to the possibility of withdrawing funds from the European Union funds. And the case between the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the European Public Prosecutor's Office is quite the opposite. He's the rule of not law. Where, although clear in Article 24. The regulations on the European Public Prosecutor are an obligation to cooperate, report and deliver cases which are or could only be in the jurisdiction of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office, the State’s Attorney’s Office did not do so. And, then, even more so when the Zhalac case showed up, media reports said that the European Public Prosecutor's Office had not been informed in the first statement. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if this does not fall under the fact that their actions do not harm the reputation of the State Attorney's Office, that it does not take measures under its powers to work effectively, or that the State's Attorney's Office does not carry out the satisfactory results of the work referred to in all of Article 28 of the First Law on the State's Attorney's Office as reasons for the discharge of the State's Attorney, the General State's Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, then I really do not know what the State's Attorney should or should not be done to be resolved. These are only on the case of the Gralac Reasons for Resolution, and then we have previously mentioned leaks of information, then we have leprosy in the AGROKOR case, then we have now notary consultations in the Prime Minister's office before submitting his candidacy for the Attorney General, etc. etc. And then we have the head of an important institution that's not worthy of it and that's holding back the work of those in the system that we'd like to do. Those who work 12 hours, those who want to pursue crime and corruption, but who, because of those who are at the head of the system, can't do it. And to make things better, we still have one relationship between the authorities and the ruling that this report is only coming to an opposition intervention, that the Minister has no courage to come here and that the Secretary of State that he has delegated has nothing to say about the State's Attorney's Office's work report. This is the state in Croatia of thousands of twenty-one, and it is a real picture of HDZ fighting for better judiciary and false fighting of a party convicted of corruption against this corruption. This is a real picture. In Brussels one thing, when you give statements to another, and when you really do, when you have to make moves, then the third. And if someone didn't tell me that in my debate I didn't refer to the report and what it says, I'd point to only one table on page 150 of the report and an interpretation of it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, yes, in 2020 there was an increase in the application of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office compared to 2019 by 25%. That's right, he was. And then explain to me that by 16% the number of solutions to conduct the investigation has been reduced. You've got 25% more reports, and 16% less investigations. Something's wrong. And then you look from 2016 to 2020, the number of solutions to the annual investigation has been reduced by 40%. With all due respect, colleagues and colleagues, there's something wrong with that. And then when we add this fascinating number to that, it's in 2020. HOOK OF 1719 cases solved them in 1718, and 1 remained for January 2021, and when we know what happened in the case of Žalac, it is clear that institutions in Croatia are not doing their job. The institutions in Croatia do not do their jobs, and on us who have received trust from citizens, that in HS we are passing laws that should regulate the work of these institutions is the responsibility to recognize this moment and to tell the chief state attorney thank you nicely and goodbye. And then all of us together make sure that the head of the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia gets someone who knows their job. There comes someone who will know the answer, let's say when we ask him if, after a final verdict in the case of Ivo Sanader regarding the INA mol affair, he will do something to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. Constitutional obligation of the State's Attorney's Office. Take legal action to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia. And you can't hide behind a corrupt government and say you're waiting for her decision on whether something will be done under that corrupt contract. No, I don't. The constitution gives you the task, that when you know that the contract is concluded because someone has received bribes, you react and you seek his annulment. But you don't. And that's just another proof of how much you're not up for the function you're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75595	Thank you very much, thank you. We continue with the debate that we have interrupted before taking a stand and it is up to Mr. Ivan Penava to represent the attitudes of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief state attorneys and associates. In front of you there is material and I will explain to the public what material was on the subject of the exhibition in Vukovar in the November month titled ‘Is the issue to be called’, which is actually the exhibits of the extracts from the indictment of the County State Attorney's Office in Vukovar since 24 December 2002. The introduction states: “The painful truth that 30 years after a city was destroyed to the ground, 30 years after its inhabitants were killed, wounded, tortured and raped, 30 years of life in an independent, sovereign, independent state most responsible for the crimes mentioned did not respond to what this exhibition witnessed.” On the next page, they were accused of this crime, it is of course as I said about the most responsible, so General Staff of JNA names died to the following persons, Veljko Kadević died of natural death in 2014, Blažje Adžić died in 2012, Mile Mrksic died in 2015, Goran Hadzic died in 2016, Life Panić died in 2003, Veselin Sljančanin, Vojislav Seselj, Bozidar Stevanović, Miroslav Radić and Zvić, accused of conducting a policy of creating an ethnically-restified city of conflict with vulnerable persons, including the protection of human trafficking in the protection of human life, and civil life. Directly commanding and obeying orders of combating Vukovar in order to conquer the defenders, and destroying and conquering the city. The city was operated massively and without the choice of targets and all types of available firearms from mortars, cannons, hoods, multi-tube rocket launchers of all kinds and calibers, firing hundreds of thousands of missiles. There has been a daily non-selective bombing by JNA Air Force aircraft, and it has also been combated by ships of the river fleet in the so-called “war fleet”. JNA, which resulted in the death of 1292 civilians. They all got the list in the allegations. Let me just remind you that yesterday, colleagues emphasized the day of abuse or opposition to the abuse of women in the world of the international day, there are hundreds of women whose rights no one has protected or even called for to protect them. Such action has completely destroyed and destroyed the city of Vukovar with all cultural, historical, religious, economic and residential buildings. Next, the Ovcara case with the names executed in Ovcara is determined by the deaths and members of the medical staff with their names, then the killed civilian persons found in the general hospital, while the remaining captive civilians and members of the ZNG, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and other defenders were taken to a part of the city named Simište in Velepromet, but who were more fortunate not to be beaten there were taken to camps in the Republic of Serbia where some of them also lost their lives, and others were naturally subjected to torture. So, in violation of the rules of international law during the armed conflict, they ordered the attack against the civilian population to be carried out, regardless of the objectives that affected the civilian population, to kill, torture and inhumanely treat the civilian population, to kill and torture war prisoners, to destroy cultural and historical monuments, buildings, and institutions intended for science, art, education and irony for humanitarian purposes. So they committed crimes against humanity and international law and this war crime against the civilian population, war crimes against the wounded and the patients, war crimes against the prisoners of war, the destruction of cultural and historical monuments. According to this 19-year-old indictment, No one's convicted, no one's guilty. Find out for yourself. Along with the indictment there is also the indictment from the same year of the GDO Osijek and also the even greater tragedy where the first indictee Kadijević ZDO Bjelovar from '92. Dear State Attorneys, I cannot deal with your report now, nor will I do so in the future as long as this case is open, as well as with the President of the Supreme Court to whom I addressed last year when reporting to us about the state of the judicial authority because unfortunately this case is a thousand times stronger than anything you have stated in your annual report is simply a trauma of suffering, destruction, incomparable to any annual report by any state attorney, and unfortunately even 10 of them in the last 10 years. The sums wouldn't be flat on this. To be called to the constitution, to its original foundations, to the basic provisions, to the Art. 21st where it is defined that every human being has the right to live, in an article. 22. who speaks of freedom and that personality is invulnerable, in art. 23. who says no one is to be abused, in an article. 29 that everyone has the right to an independent and impartial court, in a fair and reasonable manner, to decide on his rights. It's just become a senseless 30-year-old in this country. After that, you will agree with me, that it is indeed. The moral aspect of punishing anyone in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular someone from Vukovar or from the victims of the Homeland War when we consider these facts, and these are the facts of the station and it is questionable whether you can charge anyone and the parking ticket. This crime is the first letter of alphabet for the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. Why did none of the general staff respond, can find reasons in the OLAF case of Gabriela Žalac, but also in the case of Perkovic, Mustać, where the Munich court was to be tried, but also in The Hague which tried for Ovcara, but only for Ovcara that one small segment of this indictment, unfortunately in Croatia, justice and in the Croatian state of justice does not live and does not exist for all the victims of the Homeland War. Sinisa Glavasevic, in one of her reports, has accused both parliamentary representatives and the president of the state and the constitutional court, all instances of treason. That's when we interpreted it as being the work of KOS. However, 29 years later, it turns out that KOS is now ruling the state. To judge the red star the five-point symbol that destroyed the city of Vukovar is obviously too much sin as their peak in the form of JNA General Staff. In vain of the sermon of Bishop Egidi Zivkovic or Ivan Šaška since this year, the vain cry of children killed or executed on Ovcara every 20 November and this year, the vain attitudes and cries of the mayor who has been trying for years to promote this topic because there is simply no power or hearing in Croatia under the quotes of our and free state. In challenging this human moral disaster, do not ask anyone to transfer me to the independence of the judiciary because the Croatian defender of the Republic of Serbia is sentenced within 4 to 9 months when there is political will. Do not honor me for not having the right to talk about this because here is the 3rd term of office of the Mayor of Vukovar and this 3 won by their name and last name against both HDZ and SDP and the SDSS. Don't tell me to politicize and paralyze on this subject because years pass, unfortunately most of you keep silent, you who are the most relevant, some like Djakic's colleagues have even tried to break protests, I wonder why. What is your goal, what are your policies? The title of this brochure is betrayal, unfortunately I'd rather agree that this is about high treason. Vukovar remains an unclean conscience of the Croatian people and Croatian state [[Intruder: Time.]] Thanks to all of us. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75597	Mr. Milorad Pupovac will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75598	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected state attorneys, co-workers and state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, when the SDSS Club would talk about the death of Serbs in Croatia since '91. '95. And after that, in the way my predecessor talks about the victims of Vukovar as he sees it, we would be constantly in the verbal war, and the state's attorney would be completely blocked by political pressures on the one hand and on the other and we would actually be holding the country hostage, the state's attorney could not work, the interstate relations would be worse than they are, and that's why I'm going to say this. Regardless of the fact that ethnic cleansing against Serbs in Croatia was carried out in the Republic of Croatia, according to those in cities outside the war area in '91, '92. and those in UN-protected areas until '95. the years until Operation Flash and Storm. Who answered? Who was responsible for the persecution of hundreds of thousands of people who would never return to their homes? Whoever was responsible for the destruction of 10,000 houses that will never be restored, as well as villages including villages of the 25 Požeški boilers, 24 were destroyed in the 12th month of '91. A year. Who was responsible for monuments like Bakicev and the monuments of Kamenska, Petrova Gora? Who was responsible for the Vanje Radauš monument like the Serbs? Who was responsible for the destruction of Ratko Petric's monument in Jadovna? No one. No one. So now there's going to be a hack, no one's going to attack you, no one's going to run a hack on you, just telling you the other side of the story. And I fully sympathise with the people you speak of whether they were Serbs, Croats, Slovaks, Bosniaks, who were injured, which list you list here. But how do you handle it? Interrupted cooperation between a) our state attorney's office and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH, but when it happened we naturally had the Purd case and we all got on our feet, we couldn't, okay, there was some reason, did we do something after that, we didn't. Everything's been going since 2011. Then what are we going to do? We will persecute the remaining Serbs living in Croatia. You can't reach those you think are responsible, but that's why you're going to reach those who are here independently are responsible or not. I'm in favour of determining responsibility for both of us and for each other without further ado. No one was responsible for Grubore or Varivod, no one was responsible for Gosic, no one was responsible for Lika, no one was responsible for Kordun, for Banija, no one. And what am I supposed to do here now? That every time I give my political career and the action of the SDSS based on it. I'd rather kill myself. Now I'm ashamed to mention it in the context of your speech because as a man, I'm ashamed to answer to one crime by another crime, and in that way it seems like I want to prevent one crime from being held accountable. No. I don't do that. I'm accessing crime and my club universally, but if every once in a while people come to declare people war criminals like that. Dr. Stanimirovic, twice before the state's attorney's office, twice found not guilty, but here we have again today a new defamation campaign. What's the state's attorney's office gonna do? They won't do anything because these people who do it are protected by media freedoms and political rights. And how does this work on Serbs in Croatia and on Croatian relations, on the calm fact that we are both in Vukovar and Varivoda and Gosić? It's devastating. Are we gonna change that? I'd like to trade, but we should have a partner for that. I just want to say that I don't want Serbs to be hostages of crimes they didn't commit, but individuals or groups or politics. I'd just like to say that the Croats must not be the hostages of any type of crime from II. World War I or this war no matter how great a tragedy it is. That's my point of view, and I won't say another word about it. I want to say something from the state's attorney's office. We see that the matter has stopped, I'm going to say something in the direction of our responsibility to improve the assumptions for the work of the state's attorney's office, as a rule, during every year's report I've talked about it, I'm going to talk about it this time. What was the average minimum age of those who worked in the state's attorney's office from counselors up and down? 30 years, that means we have no serious growth, no serious investment. In the '20s no one was admitted to legal professions either in counseling, or in any other position. To expect the state's attorney's office to do its job the way it's supposed to be. The age is such with all due respect and experience that people have but we have to build spare personnel. Why are people leaving? The men leave, mostly the women are over 80%,... are underpaid, not treated, lawyers and law offices have much more money than only the state's attorney's office can provide to secure investigative procedures and investigative actions, the influence of people with political power and political influence are still too strong. Let's step up the state's attorney's office, let's not treat him as an NGO or as an undesirable part of the justice system. As far as hate speech cases are concerned, I hear them here, and in the Parliament, people are protected from the way they treat me. I hear people blaspheming with the protection of the immunity of local authorities or county or parliamentarians who are blaspheming at people, who are spreading hate, and then kids who send them a message or unhappy people who send a message that they should kill me, a family member or someone close to them will answer, not those who sit here, not those who are leaders of political parties. One of them's gonna pick up now and he's gonna answer the word, one of them's protected. I could talk more, but I won't stop here, but if I have to. We're seeing progress, but we're still not teamed up enough to figure out what hate speech is, what it is to call for violence and what it isn't. Our society suffers from this, unfortunately it is also contributed by people in the highest state positions, speaking a language that encourages hatred for one another and hatred for individual groups, including state institutions. Is that freedom of speech? To a certain extent, it is no longer free speech as far as I'm concerned. It's a job for the DORH, risky, but a job for the DORH. And in the end, as far as the current circumstances are concerned, if there were failures and failures made, that should be resolved. The whole system can't, and neither can we, who chose the state's attorney's office, bear responsibility for the inaction, and what has to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75599	Thank you, thank you very much. We have a series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75600	Your Honor, Vice President. Of course. 238, I can't believe that Mr. Milorad Pupovac still has the courage to come here to HS, and here he leaves HS and then speak or try, here he comes back anyway, relativizing the Homeland War. Dear Pupovac, at the moment when you apologize and repent for what your national minority did to our country of Croatia, then we can talk Until then please remain silent. [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, thank you, time. Time.]] And this is the message or question to Andrej Plenkovic And HDZ, so it's possible it's your coalition partner. [[- Mr. Radin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75601	First warning, first one is enough first? It was a replica, not even a You didn't call the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Zekanovic: 238.]] Mr Milanović litre. Don't think so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75602	Thank you, Chairman. The violation of Rules of Procedure of 238nd fellow Pupovac here speaks falsely, speaks of some common memorial, so far you have not once appeared in the Memory Column in Vukovar, I have not seen you this year. You throw flowers on our rivers, pretend everything is fine, and you are the one who contributes to the non-cooperation of Croatian and Serbian communities, especially in Vukovar where auto segregation you work at the level of kindergarten school and to elementary schools, it's your fault, only yours. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75603	It was, it was a replica, of course a reminder, Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75604	I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure on Article 238, also at the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, on the violation of the oath which Mr. Assembly MP Pupovac here before this public has attached because he not only offends the feelings of righteous, truthful people in Croatia he now sees has gone one step further, he points to his fellow parliamentary representatives And they say they're spreading the nation. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] religious and I don't know what kind of hatred [[Intruder: Mr. Sacic.]] You were supposed to remove him with the Assembly Guard. [[Intruder: Time.]] from the classroom because this is just... [[Don't put me in a situation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75605	You have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75606	On the contrary to the most extreme...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75607	You have a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75608	... spreading national hatred to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75609	You have two warnings. I'm sorry, but you made me do it. Mr. Pupovac, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75610	I'm a little ashamed to call on Article 238, which is so offensive here, but despite that shame, I'm going to do it. You're the one who got away with it. And you'd be better off if you did. [[Intruder: Shame on you.]] [[Intruder: See this I do not want this play this is a violation of the Constitution and the law, the Law on State's Attorney's Office, the Law on the Judiciary is shameful, please respond.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75611	Thank you very much, third warning with a word-absorbing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75612	I'll repeat it once more to be heard, you're the one who got away with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75613	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75614	But as far as you're concerned, you're in the middle of a party. which you now spit, and you would never enter, you entered the assembly if you didn't slip in. [[Mr. Pupovac, time, time is...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75615	Mr. Pupovci, you have a warning, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75616	And now you're pretending to be a sovereign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75617	You have another warning, don't, don't, don't, don't. Sir, I'm sorry, I'm only doing my job. Here you are, Mr. Zekanovic, Zekanovic. Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic. Milanovic litre yes, and Zekanovic was seen by me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75618	A colleague of Pupovac is ashamed to be called here on Article 238, but he is not ashamed of everything his national minority has done in Croatia. We haven't heard the apology yet, and we're still waiting for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75619	It's a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75620	You have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75621	Second, second warning, thank you. Here you go, sir, and for being a replica, I'm just sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75622	Poor Croatian people, of course, Article 238, poor Croatian peoples, when we in 2021 can hear all of this from these characters in the Croatian National Assembly. So, this is our shame I'm going to call there colleagues from HDZ, you've chosen him that's your coalition partner and it's extremely bad. So here you see this is the Croatian National Assembly where the main word is run by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75623	Mr. Zekanovic, you have a second warning. Mr. Pupovec can we give up, I'm sorry, Mr. Pupovac can we give up on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75624	From what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75625	You know I'm gonna have to give a third warning by taking away the words, that's, that's clear, right? As much as you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75626	At least warn your colleague Zekanovic that this is not the Croatian National Assembly. And if I have to remind you of what's in his head when it comes to the Croatian National Assembly, then you'll have to give me a little more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75627	Unfortunately, the third warning was because it was a replica. And Mr. Zekanovic, this isn't a state council, you know that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75628	So it was nice for Milorad Pupovac and others, the Croatian state is a state, so the state is also when I say that the Croatian state is a parliament that is a parliament of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75629	Mr. Zekanovic it's a replica you have a third warning with...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75630	You liked it or you didn't like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75631	...the third reminder with the taking of words don't every time I raise my voice is embarrassing to me. I'm embarrassed, and I'm embarrassed. Let's move on. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. So there are 2 confiscation words, Mr. Zekanovic and Mr. Sacic, that until the end of the debate on this subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75632	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected chief state attorney, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, here I am going back to the agenda point, and I believe that a little bit of emotion will quiet down here so we can keep working. So today is the 2020 report on the work of state lawyers. The State Attorney's Office under the Constitution is an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to prosecute perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and to take legal action to protect the property interests of the Republic of Croatia and to bring legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights. Since 1 September 2018, according to the Law on State Attorneys, the obligation of the Attorney General to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the work on cases and on the organisation and conditions for the work of the State Attorney's Office has been prescribed. This report is well structured it combines statistical data and gives insight into the work of the national lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and by types of cases and at all levels. This report shall be accompanied by a report on the work of the State Attorney's Board as an independent and independent body ensuring the independence and independence of the State's Attorney's Office. On the day of 31.12.2020, we had 42 state attorneys, 25 municipal, 15 county, USKOK and DORH. At the end of 2020, a total of 1,824 persons were employed in all state attorneys, which was more than 12 persons in 2019, and 638 state lawyers and their deputies were in office, which was more than 2019 for 2 deputies. During the year 20 deputy state attorneys were resolved, which is not a small number and which is also a data that speaks of the age structure of officials in DORH. It is evident that in 2020 there was no employment of new legal profession practitioners, which I don't think is good. A total of 213 252 items were received in 2020, down from 2019 for 2 436 cases. In total, there were 254 785 items, and 213 719 items were solved and 41 065 items remained unsolved. It is positive that the number of pending cases is continuously reduced. When we look at indicators of the success of the work of state attorneys, the data show that the rate of urgency is 100% in spite of the extraordinary circumstances and conditions in which it was done, and also that the time of resolution has shortened. The analysis shows that municipal state attorneys have more criminal cases than civil and administrative cases. When we look at the number of received and resolved criminal cases in the jurisdiction of county state attorneys, it is evident that the number of resolved cases is constantly increasing and the outstanding ones are being reduced. However, the number of cases received in the jurisdiction of the Civil-Government Department, as well as the rate of urgency in that department, is somewhat lower as a result of the long-term investment arbitration cases, was not included in the CTS system until 2020. The number of pending cases at all levels of DORH has decreased and it is evident that the time of the case resolution is also shortened. It is also important to note that the most representative solutions for rejection are 52% of the measurement decisions for criminal applications. Then the charges followed, 31%, and the solution to conduct an investigation of about 17%. Of the total number of investigations in the paper, 6 457 were completed during 2020 with 4 105 investigations, which is about 64%, in which the number of indictments was filed by 81.5%. State attorneys have filed charges against 18 164 persons, which is more than 1 275 persons in 2019. That the quality of the high-level indictments is also confirmed by the fact that 97% of the charges have been confirmed, and only 2.12% has been returned to the DORH for better resolving matters, i.e. In order to implement additional skills. The procedure was suspended by 59 persons or a small percentage. In 2020, 15,306 convictions were passed, 88.81% compared to the total number of court rulings, and acquittals were taken by 6.37%. From the structure of sanctions imposed, the trend in increasing the number of convicted persons to prison is evident. During 2020, the property benefit of 641 persons was subtracted, totalling 196 799 873 kuna, which is greater than the previous two years. Of which, 40% refers to USKOK items. The maximum amounts of property benefits seized are for criminal acts of bribery. The more detailed figures visible from the Report will not be further discussed, but the structure of all successes is shown, from the Municipal, County State's Attorney's Office, through work in USKOK and DORH by objects and by type of cases. It is important to note that, in the report and the data, particularly for war crimes, for corrupt crimes, for hate acts, for acts against the economy and what we can conclude is that acts against the economy, crimes against the economy are on the rise, which is not good, but also that the crimes, the crimes of violence in the family are on the rise, which also speaks of the state of society. Finally, I'm going to say something about this report now, given the overall content of the report. Comparing the results of the work with the previous period, it is evident that a high degree of awareness of performance in work is maintained, regardless of sub-capacitation and working conditions. I also conclude that the public perception of the operation of the DORH as part of the judiciary does not correspond much to the picture resulting from this report. This is certainly a problem for which you will need to find the cause, make a diagnosis and find adequate therapy. What we will represent as a club, as we have so far, is the functioning by the principle of government's trinity and respect for the independence and independence of the judicial authorities in their work, while insisting that we must all be equal before the law and we must all answer equally. This is to be found that all those who are judicial officials or officials are not untouchable, and especially because of the oath they made, they are expected to have the highest degree of responsibility in the work. However, although the work of the DORH must be independent and unburdened by public opinion and pressure, it is already based on facts, today it is not easy for you officials in the DORH because, as we have seen today, you are under pressure, even under the pressure of politicians here today, opposition, not under the pressure of the ruling ones. We don't ask you about items, specific items with a name and a last name, and we might ask you about an item, for example. Mayor Posavac, Mayor of Čakovec or for the case of the mayor of Sisak when she refused to submit the documentation at the request of USKOK. What kind of message is being sent to the citizens by such behavior? Where is this responsibility to those who chose us? I will conclude, I am for questioning responsibility and seeking responsibility from all those who perform public duties. There are no protecteds, we rule not to protect anyone, nor to protect us in our ranks. No one is protected and all are available in the face of justice, but I don't think anyone can be convicted on the basis of a subjective impression. Not the way it's done to a public hack. We should all be responsible for our actions, and if we are guilty, we too should be punished. As the late mayor Bandic used to say, let the institutions do their jobs, and our assignment is, dear colleagues and colleagues, above all, I think it is our job to strengthen all our institutions. Thank you. The HDZ Club will support this report. [[You too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75633	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic, will represent the positions of the HSS and the Workers' Front Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75634	Good afternoon, everyone. Respected state's attorney general. I asked you two questions that you didn't ask me, the same question that you didn't give me the answer to, so I'm going to ask it one more time. The question refers to Kras, meaning for over a year and a half, and your drawer stands for the application of workers against the meaning of their managers in Kras and against the Beers who have come to the shares according to their beliefs, in a strange way. Krass's managers made a fortune at the speed of stocks, but the Beers won those shares along with fraud, the promise to the workers that there would be no layoffs, after which hundreds of workers were fired or not extended their contract, again and in this case the media found that the managers had become rich, they bought shares for several thousand kunas, in less than two months they earned 60 times more. What about it, the DORH has been in the drawers for over a year now reporting against the Pivacs, now for a year and a half and has not dealt with it, now these owners are entering another high-profit company, one of the largest Croatian companies that employs more than 6,500 people, means in Podravka. I ask you what you're going to do on that application, there's no answer. The workers' front has already warned several times about this shameful privatisation story about Kraš, so I'll brief you on what this is all about, if at all possible, if you've never heard of the situation. According to the standing-tested recipe is therefore in Kraš, the problems started with this privatisation of the company, which means, the recipe that is always the same, the DORH, USKOK did nothing about the investigation and application due to possible illegal treatment in the privatisation process, meaning in 2019, the Pivac brothers become majority owners so that during 2019 the working share falls from 20% to 2% of shares. For the first few years, workers were forced to buy shares, to make them sell shares to the Pivac brothers by intimidation and under the pretext of bad financial conditions. Workers warn that not all of them first came to ENOP shares, meaning working stock and that the shares were divided unfairly when the ESOP was formed 19 years ago and that they were then persuaded in the privatisation process to give power to represent ESOP, trade union leader Marica Vidackovic, and could not decide on their own to sell their shares to Serbian entrepreneur Nebojsa Saranovic, who offered 130 thousand kunas or Pivci who offered 73,000 kunas for the stake. In the end, everything was sold to the Beers at the 11th month. In 2019, with a reason that they are willing to sign a social contract in which they have committed themselves to respecting all the rights of workers found and have promised not to change anything for 10 years. In 2020, the RF, which this Report refers to, requested that the DORH, THE BUSKO, act hastily on that criminal application they received and that workers be compensated without participation in the ESOP and pass a law that will be clearly regulated, but above all, it means, as far as you are concerned, to look at that application that you received. A year ago, I'm going to remind you of another case, so I'm going to concentrate on working cases, I asked you a question about Brodotrogir. There, too, workers filed a complaint because Končar, the owner of Brodotrogira, owed months to pay workers. You've answered my question about, quote, if there were any elements of the crime, the state's procedure would have been initiated. There is clearly no justice in this country for workers and procedures do not move. The workers sent applications to the DORH, but there you again felt that, which, paying off, payouts were not a problem. So you reminded me of the Company's Company Act which separates the owner's responsibility from the company's own obligations and then asks the question, who's responsible? No one. Disbursement of wages in this case is quite possible, and unfortunately, you may be right, so there's no reason for prosecution. You simply claimed that companies are in a blockade and that they have no money and that it's all regular, no one is responsible for it, but the blockade is, of course, a valid practice, which should be questioned right now, in 5 years, 3 companies are the same in bankruptcy, and the same workers transferred from one company to another, so it's a practice we must already notice that it happens in other companies and criminalise it, and not consider it regular. The laws are set up so that workers discriminate, but in some cases, even such laws may mean they may be a reason to launch an investigation, but that's not what you're doing. What about the INA, which means the one we warned you about? It is clearly privatised in the corrupt process, so here they are all, so in Croatia they are damaged. It is not true that, when you say that it is a trade arbitration and that it is not your responsibility, means the position you have really has the possibility and in fact the obligation to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the constitution stipulates that the DORH is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, Article. 121a. It is possible to annul an additional inter-communication contract with MOL after, especially after the first is the powerful verdict to Sanader where it has been demonstrated that INA has been handed over to foreigners in the corrupt process. There is no interest, obviously in the DORH where workers are damaged, but I will say one more thing, although I criticise the meaning of both HDZ and their policies, I must say that with little surprise I am caught by the opposition reaction and by some opposition MPs who fight hard for anti-corruption policies, against corruption, and some of them, by chance their fathers find out that they need to buy immediately before the state is interested in land, a land in the vicinity of Vukovar where the road will pass, and then the state pays that father big money, no one, but now that representative has no problem talking here about how corruption should be looked after. Or what to say about those MPs who are apparently connected to Russian gas lobbyist groups, in all these cases nationalism is a very strong, strong motivational voice impulse with which they are actually hiding their own intentions and sooner or later it is established that the story of large-serb aggression was only a front for their own corruption activities. Also, not only is it some kind of balling here between the meaning of the opposition and the position, as far as anti-corruption policies are concerned, I have a somewhat different attitude than most, I think, and representatives of the opposition and representatives of the position. My view that anti-corruption policies themselves are terribly important, but that they themselves will not significantly change their resolution and incentive means the status of the working majority, and I have repeatedly mentioned that China is worse than Croatia, according to the corruption perception index, 15 places. Also, until the entry into the Eurozone in the early 2000s, Italy was one of the world's 7 most developed economies, despite the fact that the public perceptions of the Italian authorities were long marked as corrupt and known for their corrupt practices along with spectacular actions to fight corruption in the 1990s, such as the "Mani Pullite" action. So there is no example in the world of a state or economy that, according to key economic and social indicators, belonged to the undeveloped ranks, so that after a decisive struggle, the new progressive government would be placed in the ranks of the developed. Unfortunately, this is so, regardless of the importance of fighting corruption, but we should also openly say what the achievements of this policy are. The real problem is often in public space, not that someone is fighting corruption but that anti-corruption policy becomes the only policy and that there are no other criticisms of the government or the ruling but seems to be some corrupt and unfair, while others are fair and corrupt and all the people of this country need to do is choose the right ones. Such a political framework that all comes down to corruption policies leads to the enormous lack of interest of the political and Croatian public in politics because it is established that those who come to power, who have declared themselves unsrupted and fair and capable, are making the same mistakes as those who were there before them. It's not all about personal morality and personal morality can't be about reaching, finally reaching our policies. Therefore, something should have skeptics towards anti-corruption policies, which does not diminish, of course, anti-corruption as an important political option. First of all, I would ask the state's, the state's attorney general to respond to these cases that are related to labour rights, but above all to the Crash case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75635	Time. Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will represent the views of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75636	Thank you. Here, I will proceed immediately to colleague Katarina Peovic in the sense that the fight against corruption will not solve what are the structural economic and social problems of this society, that alone, I think, not in itself. But why today and in this speech, I will insist that the key role of the DORH and USKOK in restoring citizens' trust in certain institutions is a key task, and in order to achieve that it is crucial to improve your processing of those cases that are related to political corruption and also to top officials because this way of imprisoning the state that we have in place for more than 20 years is a model that prevents any economic transformation. Because if you want to make any change at a lower level, any change, you can't make it for a reason because it's institutionalally legally disabled or because it's disabled through personneling and establishing practice. And that's why the issue of resolving corruption, the issue and the previous issue of solving the quality of life problem of all citizens is because, we don't have incident corruption, we have a captured state, trapped institutions. So that's how it is, the situation of the Grill-Petric has shown it best. You have the case of Žalac, I've been following him since 2017 when he was the first competition for software, i.e. It wasn't a competition, but it was a direct assignment on the grounds that it was an innovation that this particular company had from Mr. Simonca Microproject. When that didn't go away because she was complaining about another firm that was used to getting out of the state all big jobs, so in this case she didn't, so they quickly made a complaint. But here's a good thing that they did, because they crashed that contest so he had to go back to the competition, this time a real contest where it was clearly seen from the documentation means you don't need any reconnaissances. The documentation shows that the entire tender is set up for one bidder who finally got it. Of course, it could no longer be Mr. Simunca's firm due to previous compromise, so a cover firm was taken with one employee, so 13 million contracts were awarded to the company with one employee. It doesn't suspect anyone, it happens, it contracts, it goes. So even when it's published not on the basis of the DORH investigation, it's the journalist's own investigation and the entire paperwork goes on for three years and nothing happens. It doesn't even happen that someone should have made it clear that if it was managed by Minister Zhalac through the Central Finance and Contracting Agency that someone there supported her. Who? A person re-named to the same function in 2020, Mr. Petric. It's all in the DORH and it would all die and it was so-called. a dead case that has not been taken over by the European Prosecutor's Office, where we have contradictory statements. First, on behalf of the D.O.R.H., you say you gave the case to the European prosecutor, the European Prosecutor's Office. They deny it. So, they deny and say no, we started the case on our own. So that was the first time you saw that there was no telling the truth. Then again you claimed that you were not directly involved in the case, and that you would say today that you received a report on the case in June. So we have a situation so we don't get true information from DORH's forehead. However, the Grappling Petric case has shown the system how it works, but it is not the only such case. We have a case that I'm calling software two, a case of the center of shared services. One of the largest projects in the EU funds that we had at the centre of shared services 360 million kuna value of the project, 85% is funded by the EU. The aim of this was to place all applications in one place on the cloud and to be available to all public-law authorities in order to make the data exchange faster and more efficient. 400 applications and registers of public authorities should be at the centre of shared services by the beginning of 2022. 120 are currently in the home, so that goal will not be achieved. But it's not just that. The problem is that USKOK was doing reconnaissances when the affair software began and they lasted parallelly for a time with this centre of shared services. So as it is possible that no data were compared, it was not immediately seen that it was going to public procurement for a particular platform that is unnecessary because there is a project of another to which we spend hundreds of millions of kunas on which all applications should be. And even today, the state pays Hosting, or fostering a bunch of other applications, although it is as established CDU. Who's gonna be responsible? The assessment is that these services are overrated three times. Who's gonna be responsible? Who picked up the cream here? Are we going to see this case from you or are we going to wait for the European Prosecutor's Office to take over? Furthermore, in all these affairs that we have at the weekly level, the state's attorney's office has really proven that it cannot deal with cases of high corruption that I've listed, but worst of them, is the Borg case, the Borg case and the great Agrokor case. So, you have a situation that the great Agrokor case you announced would be brought up at the end of last year, so it was in February, so it should be now, so it's back on the charge. Allegedly, for the arrest of former state's attorney, Puklin. However, I asked you today because I have this information, you said you didn't have it reportedly by deputy county attorneys a year ago informing you that they had no grounds to press charges, in writing. So you're saying you've never seen it and that the case goes on. Why is it important that the case goes on? I mean, I'd very much like to sanction them, of course, all those who committed any crime. However, the fact is that if the case of the great Agrokor fell and he was not charged with it is that a legitimate question is being asked how the Borg fell and where is the government's responsibility in all this. But not just any government, some former minister's minister. No, it's Andrei Plenkovic. And I understand it's not easy being in your position where you have political corruption on a weekly basis of cases and affairs, but your behavior shows that you're processing so-called. not live ministers, but to stand still and perhaps self-censor in the case of living ministers, not to mention the prime minister and these are the cases in which the work of the DORH will be remembered – Agrokor, Borg. Cases like this with 360 million kuna center shared services, a case of software that you've left behind that's small compared to all these other financial but important symbolic ones. It's your legacy, your legacy. For that reason, we cannot support this report or your stay at the head of the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75637	Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will represent the views in this report of the CENTR and GLAS, the CENTR and GLAS representatives said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75638	Thank you, Chairman. So, even though we are discussing today the 2020 State Attorney General Report, we cannot completely escape the context of which is indirectly debated and of confidence in the main state attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek and, consequently, the director of USKOK Vanja Marusic, due to recent corruption and unprecedented embezzlement over the failure, and potentially because of the conscious and deliberate obstruction of former Minister Gabriela Žalac's case. Here, in order to be correct, I will single out three entirely different issues and three different topics. The first topic is to look at the overall results of the work of the DORH and USKOK, looking at the fact that DORH and USKOK are a single Corps in which only 638 state lawyers, and a humiliating small number of all 33 judicial employees working in the USKOK, thus taking care of a total of 470 000 cases. This report mainly deals with statistics on their work, and it must be said that statistics are good, especially if financial and other worrying bad conditions are taken into account in which public lawyers carry out their public duties. I would especially like to point out that the most important part of every system of people, and people who work in the USKOK and the DORH are not to be further demoted and thrown into dissatisfaction by our dissatisfaction with these current corruption affairs and cases of our dissatisfaction with the current leadership, our dissatisfaction with those state attorneys who are currently under investigation for leaking information to all, and then consider all of them equally dolls at someone's political end, corrupt or simply incapable of doing their job. In that sense, I join my colleague Arsen Bauk, who has made all the efforts within the system and done his work professionally, responsibly, and honorably said one human and political thank you. The second topic is the content of a report to be seen as a personal accounting account for its work o9d by the main state attorney herself. And the third topic is the most important political issue right now, which is the question of trust and subsequent resignations or the replacement of the chief state attorney and director of USKOK because of the debacle in one of the politically sensitive corruption cases. Now, unlike that statistic that in some way speaks about the results of the work of all within the structure and USKOK and DORH, the role and responsibility of the main state attorney determines two basic parameters for me. It is the first one that speaks about whether trust in the system is at all preserved and in their work, and the second parameter is whether the chief state attorney managed to fight for the appropriate and better working conditions both of the USKOK and the DORH. First of all, I'm going to commend the 97.48% of confirmed charges, which in a certain sense confirms their quality and integrity. I will also commend the case's success in front of the 71m-euro International Tribunal. However, the essence is not in the statistics but in the trust that I have already talked about, and this trust has been seriously marred and this is the measure that really prevents the continued survival of both the chief state attorneys and the director of USKOK, regardless of how their resignations or their shift will take place. Namely, the USKOK and DORH work test is not all of those objects that are quality done and that are listed in statistical good indicators of work. The test in which DORH is either passing or falling is those few individual objects, or even one single object that has a particular political weight. It's a test of real independence, professionality, efficiency, even courage. And on that case test, Gabriela Kajac, the chief lawyer, unfortunately, fell. Because in vain, all these statistics here agree with the colleagues of the MOST and all other results if citizens, in general, suspect that one corruption case against a former minister who has personally chosen and a favorite of the Prime Minister has been obstructed or kept in the status of a statistically dead object even in a situation where there was an explicit obligation to inform the case of the EU institutions, as it is embezzled funds from EU funds. It should be pointed out that the Director of USKOK is elected and resolved by the Chief State Attorney, and therefore is responsible for it. But even independently of that, it is the duty of the state's chief attorney, and it is her personal duty to keep files that have a particular political and legal weight, and that is exactly the weight of the case against Minister Gabriela Žalac's special account. And there's a major state attorney who can't call for the failure of any other person who's in the structure underneath her, and that's where one part of this report praises that keys tracking system as an information promotion that serves among other things to monitor the course of the case and to control the work of the state's attorneys. I'm really, really sorry, but you don't have a choice. You are obliged to replace the Director of USKOK regardless of what will show the results of your investigation, but you are also obliged to resign yourself in order to in any way protect USKOK and DORH as bodies, i.e. as institutions, and to try to alleviate the impression that in this case either by order of Andrej Plenkovic or in any other connection with him or with an influential HDZ, or by simply acting in the elders or by adjudicating one of his ministers by looking through his fingers. Therefore, these resignations on the one hand still protect BOOK and DORH as institutions or as bodies, but they also represent one recognition that in this case it was still a certain political pressure, that it existed. And that means that my parliamentary deputies, and even you fellow HDZ MPs from the parliamentary majority, must seek the resignation of the prime minister himself because of a reasonable suspicion that he is personally in this crime and in a very well-wetting state. So, it would be inadmissible for me to make the main state attorney and director of USKOK themselves here, and then for the sake of doubting that one minister has been favored, and thus to Andrej Plenkovic, who protects her, and then to allow that same Andrew Plenkovic and his parliamentary majority to choose after that another person who is willing to do so. Therefore, it is not the point in changing Zlata Hrvoje Šepek or Vanje Marusic, the point is that HDZ must be replaced because the system will continue to be under the same pressure and equally instrumentalised. Now there's something to be said about this system that's not built, weak and sub-capacitated. And that's where I'm going to say that if after the shift, and I say I don't mean the replacement of the chief state attorney and director of USKOK, I mean the shift of HDZ from power. So if we leave that system behind afterwards, then I'll say that then responsibility and guilt would be on us. So it's politics. When I say politics, I mean those who have exercised power so far, and most of all HDZ, I don't want new political forces to continue to go that way. So it's policy to ignore for years always one and the same content of the report of the main state attorneys who are repeated year after year in the part in which they are asked for very specific, and for the implementation of very simple and important solutions. For example, amendments to the law that would allow the attorney generals, i.e. pardon the state's lawyers to file complaints on the solutions of the indictment council, and in particular I believe that we should move on and change, should change the structure of the State-Law Council, which is currently an unprofessional body in which two parliamentary deputies are involved. And as long as we have a situation to deal with the strict procedures against state lawyers and check their property cards, Jasmine Lekaj Prlaskaj and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, we should expect absolutely nothing from the judiciary. And not because Zlatko Hasanbegovic, don't get me out of the bench there is no covid certificate, but because he simply doesn't know and has no professional knowledge that he could perform such a responsible and important duty of internal justice control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75639	Thank you very much. Thank you for doing my job, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75640	At the head of the state's attorney's office, we thought we saw everything. We had a top state attorney who filed reports in investigations led by a foreign embassy, specifically to the US that we had the opportunity to see and documented, and today he was available to Wikiliks and he was showing foreign diplomats classified documents. In every country, he'd end up in prison like that. Nothing happened to us but Cvitan and Bajic conspired. WikiLeaks mentioned both of them, they both filed a report there. But that wasn't all, we later welcomed the state's chief attorney who was a member of the masseuse, so a member of the secret society in which he took the ritual oath. Someone who should swear to the very Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The farsic element of the whole story is that it was not a valid masseuse, but it was a scam from a guy from Serbia named Pera Zapeta, who, in a pizzeria of an Italian con artist, got the flames of the great architect of the world, and it was a hoax to our suckers. That's where the attorney general was. And we thought we really saw everything, but the culmination was a few days ago, a press conference of the chief state attorney and director of USKOK where we could watch the disintegration of Croatian institutions live, the professional and moral decay of two important figures in the Croatian state. But that wasn't all, either. The main state attorneys today, in response to Agent Grumoja, confirmed that in July 2021, you were sent from the USKOK case Žalac and that you did not see it. So, you brought out two thesis today that recorded thesis a) that the subject was sent to you by UskoK and thesis b) that you didn't see it. What are the options? First someone to censor the items, so that what Uskok sends doesn't come to you, but someone in the DORH stops somewhere, shuts down, censors the object. If that happens then say it, then we're in big trouble. Obviously not. The second possibility that the object was standing so on the table was directed, no one informed you, you haven't seen it since July. That's what he says about irresponsibility and unhappiness. Just enough reason to resign. The third and most convincing possibility is that you weren't telling the truth. You couldn't have seen him. Then we're already on the crime scene. Thank you exclusively to HDZ deputies, from a party recently convicted of crime and corruption, and then shortly after that second verdict they also received a booster dose of the case of Žalac. If anyone suspected they'd gotten better and it's fair now. There was also a shame in front of the EU that people who managed European funds were stealing the same funds. Respecting the presumption of innocence, but in more than 90% of cases, the verdict ends in cases opened by the European Public Prosecutor. But I'm still gonna keep the barriers to the presumption of innocence. Andrej Plenkovic, who built his image on the fact that he is a European politician of European character, has been delegated to one where he seemed to be strongest. Obviously there is also a fear that Gabriela Zhalac is not singing further, because he did not throw her out of HDZ as spotlessly as Josipa Rimac, but only froze his status and did not miss the opportunity to praise her ability as minister at the press conference. Well, when the press question comes, but why did you replace her in 2019, then she gets executed and insulted. Obviously some things should be drawn. Well, here's a drawing. Billions are currently being spent in Croatia to fight the coronary virus. In the third month of last year, the government placed a code under secret and past the Public Procurement Act all the supply of covid equipment. If that was necessary at that time when the whole world was looking for that equipment because it wasn't enough why after a few months of stabilizing the world market, it didn't go regular. Here's one indication or what Gordan Lauc says he offered the state at the beginning for 100 to 150 kuna PSR tests, but they said no, it should be 1500 kuna prices. Or Lauc again that we're paying for tests that cost 10 to 15 kunas a hundred or more kunas. Will you do that a little bit... [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75641	Thank you. Mr. Bolt's replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75642	Thank you. Dear fellow I will make matters clear here. So, after this question of mine, I have found that we have no sense at all to debate at all and that it is only a matter of days when the attorney general will resign or be replaced. To make things worse, when I get out of the assembly, my colleagues from the HDZ say this is over, this can't be defended anymore. So it's quite clear what happened here today. But I'd like it if you, the other day you had a debate here in the Croatian Parliament, an anecdote when the dead pheasant flies, maybe you could explain a little bit. Well, here's to the fact that this is a settled matter with the attorney general to have some fun.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75643	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75644	It was an anecdote where Marshal Tito goes hunting and there's Cardellus and the crew and flies a flock of pheasant. And the marshals aim and fire, but fly the pheasant and nothing, miss. Next time fire, here's Furio knows the anecdote, maybe it was nothing. Fire three times, nothing, none falls. And then Cardellus says, “Look at his mother’s dead and flying! ” Okay, that's the version. [[Milka Planinc was, not Cardellj.]] I prefer Cardellj, because Plenkovic only refers to the Cardel scientific what is known to me. So what's this about? That object was dead, dead to our organs, and then in the hands of the European Public Prosecutor, suddenly that dead object comes to life. And they're surprised, he sees his mother's dead object, and he flies, there's a lawsuit. How's that? Azra's legendary "When the Phases fly" album is just the headline song from the beginning of the '80s about what happens when dead pheasant flies above our heads. He says when dead pheasant flies, and none of them fall. But it'll fall eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75645	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75646	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to step away from these specific corruption affairs now and I'm going to talk about something that would literally be worth literally to any person who would be in a function where the Golden Croatian Ship is currently in office. So unlike some state attorney who is in charge of working on a single file, the attorney general or the attorney general should be something more or should be something much, much more than a good professional who works professionally and responsibly on his case. First of all, the attorney general must be a criminal person, and especially that fine political crime enjoys awe, let's put it another way. We need a state's attorney general or a state's attorney who the Prime Minister is afraid of. We need an attorney general or a lawyer who is feared by other political corruption criminals, and we currently don't have such a major state attorney. And after that, we need a person who'll be a good manager. So, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing. When I say embarrassing, it means that we as a state haven't even regained consciousness yet, let alone the fact that in all of USKOK, all of these corruption affairs are being done by only 33 judicial employees. It actually means that this country does not want to deal with corruption seriously and systematically. The complete DORH is a large personnel sub-cataciated. We were also talking about their salaries today. There is one element in this report that I personally resent, which is that on several occasions the attorney general said that the material conditions were satisfactory, that the co-operation with the Ministry of Justice was ok. I believe that the chief state attorney was obliged to attack both the Ministry of Justice and the prime minister and the parliamentary majority because of the conditions in which the DORH and USKOK have been working for many years. On page 228, the state’s attorney says that the unsatisfactory material status of officials and tenants continues to exist. Exceptionally small salaries are one of the main causes of the outflows of the experienced and trained state-of-law and furniture staff to other state bodies and institutions, making it difficult to do all the jobs in the State's attorney's office normally. And now what's particularly accusing. The Ministry of Justice and Administration, in spite of the reasoned demands of individual state attorneys, and in particular the USKOK, is denying consent to fill or approve of completion with a great delay despite the fact that the official posts are systemised by the rules on internal order and are provided with financial resources in the budget. In addition to this, we have the fact that in several towns of Rijeka, Bjelovar, Sisak, Varazdin, Sibenik, Zadar, Zagreb, state attorneys do their job in inadequate buildings. Varazdin is even said that the State's Attorney's Office there has not been solved and secured heating, for God's sakes! From year to year, it is written about the old and served rolling stock, and it is reportedly a small vehicle and delivered in this year. So what are we talking about? And we have a minister who makes lambs raises planes. We have state lawyers driving on trams to go to hearings when your corruption affairs are being processed. It's a shame! So this is the responsibility of politics but at the same time the responsibility of the state's attorney general who doesn't object. Today, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Anti-Corruption Council, I asked if the problem has been solved since 2014. So that's when we set up the special financial investigators department. From year to year, the main state lawyers submitted reports that the jobs in the four largest county attorneys have not been completed because there are no interested people for such low wages and coefficients. So the attorney general told me that some progress has been made after all. Imagine employees are even 2, two. Well, so many of them should work on each of your corruption cases, not two, but twenty, but they just don't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75647	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75648	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Oreshković. You have begun your presentation with the conclusion that it should be, or who should be approximately a description of a new state attorney or a state lawyer, or what conditions should be met. So the first condition is actually independence from the prime minister, that is, the governing structure. And the second condition is expertise, experience and everything else. If it were to change a law defining who could be a state lawyer, because we actually have state lawyers from the same niche all the time. They're people from the same niche. I kind of, my experience is that, you always have to step away from getting a wide picture. And I'm sure you have a bigger picture when you get away from it. What do you think we should, in what sense, do changes to the law to get some new character?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75649	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75650	Thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash. This is not about the need to amend the law, but about the need to amend the Constitution. It was my proposal in that draft of a proposal to combat corruption that I sent to the Assembly, and the HDZ government did not allow it to be discussed ever. Namely, in our Constitution, it says that the mandate of the attorney general lasts for four years, so that it can be re-elected. More independence would be achieved if the Constitution extended the term of office for example for 6 or 8 years, but without the possibility of re-election. And when we talk about independence, so this is not about proof that the chief state attorney or, specifically, Zlata Hrvoj Šipek is not independent, but that the perception of its independence has been violated. And that perception itself is reason enough to say that it no longer meets the condition that this function, that position should carry with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75651	Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75652	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Oreshkovic, I'd like to sign everything in your debate. But what I would also like to underline is that perception, or trust in institutions, is an equally important thing. If we talk about trust in institutions, then the DORH is probably among the lowest institutions when we talk about trust. And why is that? Not because of the DORH, not only because of the state's chief attorney or her predecessors, but also because of the fact that the government and the rule of law tend to treat them most often. And not only to them, not only to the DORH, but also to the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but also to the Commissioner, or the Commissioner for Information, but also to the Advocate General, or the Advocate General. So we have a whole series of consistent, credible procedures that degrade institutions that should oversee executive power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75653	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75654	Thanks, buddy. I point out all the time that we, the DORH and the BOOK need to protect as bodies, we need to stand in their defenses as an institution and it should be said that we in our time had A COD as one of the most successful international examples at the moment Tamara Laptoš filed charges against Ivo Sanader. DORH's reputation was also in Dinko Cvitan's period until that unfortunate press conference with the prime minister when unfortunately Tomislav Sauchi was discussed as one of the first or most troublesome tokens. So, problems have arisen with HDZ coming to power and it is possible that these bodies are actually not working as badly as our perception of them is. I understand today both frustration and Mr. Clear and many others who are here have found themselves in a situation where around them is a tight ring. That's what HDZ was doing. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75655	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75656	Respected state attorneys, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On April 29th of this year, she sent her report to HS Mrs. Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, and the assembly sent him to the MPs a day later, all together seven months ago. This case shows how dangerous it is to delay the assembly in putting up a report for discussion because if in time all this had happened there wouldn't have been a topic, so all this thing that broke up with the DORH had gotten naked to the bone, exploded both the public and the state's chief attorney in the face. Of course, she is not responsible for this delay, but she is responsible for everything else that happened in her portfolio in the meantime and quite frankly, it is quite clear that it is a report for 2020, and that some of the things that we are all talking about today are from this year, but let's not fool ourselves. When in 2021. things fall apart, big cases fail, when the DORH is disgraced in front of the local public and European institutions, the result of the poor work of those years before and of course and in 2020, and there is no dispute. What I should have said about the chief state attorney was in the debate when this assembly, or HDZ's majority, chose it. But I always find it interesting how colleagues and colleagues in HDZ pretend that they have absolutely nothing to do with it. The lady was elected by a committee composed of six HDZs, and then the HDZ majority in the assembly strengthened by MPs of the late double-crossed indictee. Does anyone else remember the HDZ's faithful coalition partner, Mr Milan Bandic, and his tokens paid by billions from the City of Zagreb budget? That's when I said what I was thinking, and that's what I think today, that the DORH is a real candidate for being shaken by someone from the outside, not someone who's been in his system since the first day of his career. I thought then, I think today and more so that some outside views of someone with new energy and will would be a better choice. Such new energy and new momentum were not even in the programme presented. In particular, I must admit it was a disappointing finding by the state's chief attorney that the fight against corruption was not resolved by criminal proceedings but by better legislation. It's not in itself incorrect, but jurisdiction, ma'am. Hrvoj Šipek is criminal proceedings, not legislation. That's where she works and where she can do something. And then a year and a half ahead, we're where we are now, the case of the Grill, the case of Agrokor and dozens of other cases that have been mentioned today, and it's debated whether the mistake was like this or who made it, and who isn't, who's responsible and who isn't. There are spectacular morning arrests, searches, journalists standing there waiting for a photo of a famous person in the back seat of a police car or a van, but that's not my people's job. The minister suspected of millions of theft was not suspicious until the European Public Prosecutor's Office jumped in and said she was suspicious and the matter should be brought to an end. I don't go into guilt or innocence, but politically and justly, it's a story and a suspicious and very unpleasant story for all of our institutions. Well, then, the agro-Cort's art in the Agro-Cort case, and the charge's been dropped. The charges will come back, she's not a failure. Well, it can be that way, but the story of perception turns out to be ridiculous, inconclusive, and as we have the opportunity to see defense attorneys using it quite successfully. And both of these cases, the DORH has been publicly warned that things are not doing well, but all this together and all that is said in the report has one fundamental and most important consequence, we are a country with tragically weak trust of citizens, businesses and judges themselves in their own judiciary. It makes us kind of an unfinished state. A state without a functional judiciary in which people trust is not a state in the fullest sense and that is the biggest problem. I understand the state's attorney's work isn't easy, but, ma'am. The state's attorneys, during your term of office, trust was further violated by failures and embezzlements, and the most important consequence of your work is the most important commentary of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75657	You, too. It's a replica of Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75658	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, here I am one of the few people looking at the Agrokor case from a slightly different perspective. As much as no one loves Ivica Todorovic and the way he handled it seems to me that the whole charge against him was constructed to cover up a much bigger crime directed by Andrej Plenkovic and members of the group. And in the context of the work of the state attorney's office here is the responsibility of former Mason Drazen Jelenić, who ordered and decided that the art will be carried out by KPMG, who was parallel to the work of this artisan, who also worked for the new administration of Agrokor, and on the one hand, charged by taxpayers 8.5 million kuna and the work for the extraordinary administration of 116 million kuna. Such skill will fall into the water because it is in our legal system, and everywhere in the world it is unsustainable because of conflicts of interest. And here's whoever's the head of state's attorney. At some point, they'll simply take responsibility. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75659	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75660	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Oreshkovic. So let's strip things down to the end, the whole Agrokora story stinks to the sky and imagine I even think we're living in some kind of parallel system, an indictment that's also a whole material that counts in a hundred thousand pages I don't even know who's able to read it, but then the indictment's being dropped to do. So Agrokor is actually the top of the peak, or one terrible weight not only of weight, but of something that will explode directly in the face of Prime Minister Plenkovic, and I don't know how he'll be able to get out of it the way he's getting away with it now, so no one knew Sanader, so nobody was involved, so they were all somewhere else together. That story with Agrokora will have tails and it'll cost the state and it'll pay for it. Our children, and I'm afraid of grandchildren. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75661	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75662	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mrak Taritash, I think you've actually touched one topic that is very important, which is the confidence of our citizens in judicial institutions. But then it's not just about citizens, that you don't get me wrong, but it's not, it's about investment security, it's about foreign investments, it's about the whole system where the judiciary should guarantee certain security, not just for our citizens, but I told investors, and it doesn't exist. And it's actually a devastating fact that maybe even the last nail in a coffin of such a system that OLAF is in charge of our country, let's just say so conditionally, and our DORH doesn't. And not only is it not, but it knowingly deceives the public that some documents have been forwarded, and they haven't. As long as that's how it is, unfortunately, and I want to overpower your argument, we're not going towards a better one, at least as far as legal certainty is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75663	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75664	Thank you very much. So what we are stressing all the time is actually faith in our judiciary, faith not only of our citizens, but of the faith and those entrepreneurs who want to invest in Croatia, who have the feeling that they are actually in the judiciary not only do they have a feeling but they are. But when we talk about the situation in the judiciary, then it's the best proof of the faith of the judges themselves. So we have a series of research that are relevant, which have not been commissioned, which has been done by some independent institutions and when it was asked by the judges how they assess whether progress in the system is consistent with certain values by expertise or by something other 55% of the judges estimated that progress is not by expertise but by similarity, and what we are all talking about together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75665	Thank you, thank you for your time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75666	So it shows the right state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75667	Unfortunately, the weather. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75668	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, the very fact of the term of this debate tells us a lot about how ruling relations with this issue, not to mention the fact that both colleagues and colleagues mentioned before me that it is precisely the opposition that initiates the debates and the report on the work of the DORH, and the report on the situation in the judiciary, in my opinion, that such a thing should not condition the opposition, it should be in the interest of ruling, not only in the interests of the ruling in the interests of all. But it's interesting why some topics and some points are on the agenda so long without being discussed. But let's put it aside, talk about the state's attorney's work report, and I'll just say it over and over again what the colleagues and colleagues before me have said that I realize it's an extremely difficult job, it's a sensitive job, it's a job that's not just a job, it's a call, it's a way of life, and you have to live this job to do it right. Also, the legacy received by the current state attorney is not easy, that we understand and the way the last state attorney went and the election process itself and everything that was related to it is always difficult and always problematic, and now it's just been potent on the ent, and on the other hand I understand the state's attorney that she is under terrible pressure. However, we need to agree with colleagues and colleagues who say that we are actually talking here about something bigger, which is the trust of our citizens, that is trust for us, and then it is trust and wider communities, let's say so the EU in our judicial institutions. In the courts of colleagues and colleagues no one believes, the oxymoron of this whole paradox story if you want it to be that one convict Mamic from BiH probably did more for the transparency of the judiciary than our DORH and more than the institutions that were supposed to provide it. We had a chance to read about the arrests of judges in Osijek on charges, and here we are recently, but my question not only rhetorical but also open to you, was it that these judges didn't stop anyone in this case, Mr. Mamic? It could have been someone else's, now that you don't realize that I'm someone's lawyer, it's completely irrelevant and side-by-side. But it is obvious that corruption in our judiciary exists. It's obvious that the DORH in this sense doesn't do a job that should work. We mentioned these many affairs Agrokor is probably the biggest of them, and when I spoke about this speaker a few years ago, I said that we would listen to Agrokor for a very long and very long time and that it was unclear how much the price would pay at the end of the Republic of Croatia, or its taxpayers, I was then welcomed by the ruling and with a mockery. I'll just remind you it's a big triumph and saving jobs. However, perhaps in the short term, but in the long run we will see this. I hope that time will deny me. Unfortunately, as time goes, I think I was right about everything. At the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues what is sad and what we should think about and what we should talk about is that investigative journalism and that I will dare say international institutions even though OLAF is also a Croatian institution, so the EU institution is doing the work of the institutions that we pay. I asked the prime minister to answer those who would eventually damage Croatia for embezzlement and theft of money from European funds, I did not get the answer. And I can accept that the prime minister wasn't listed in detail, but some did. He's his closest associate. And if we're not already talking about political responsibility, but then we also have to answer the criminal responsibility, then we have to look and actually think about why OLAF had to react at that point, not our DORH, or the BOOK. The jump that said he passed the materials on to OLAF, and he didn't. So, if the head of the Uskok lies to you and has provenly lies about what we can expect our citizens to trust in that institution. Unfortunately, so must I. the institution is very, i.e. trust is very low. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75669	I know, I saw, I saw, thank you very much. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75670	Thank you, Chairman. Here, colleague Hajdukovic, you spoke of trust and perception of trust, somehow it seems to me that today is still the main topic. But here I would also like to hear your thinking, you heard what I suggest today when we get rid of the main braker of all the positive changes in this society. So, like I said, I wouldn't want two people to be a pure scapegoat and the system to remain the same. When I say the system, I mean a weak system, a sub-disciplined system, a system that can't take all the weight of the objects that corruption affairs that they're generating for us. It simply represents something that this system is stifling. Which of my suggestions are you as a political option or an individual willing to support?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75671	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75672	Thank you very much, so thank you, fellow Members, for the question I am absolutely willing to support anything that will go towards the root reform of the system. That system just needs to be shaken. And that the system should be independent and the D.O.R.H. system, so the Attorney General, if that's how we're going to be independent in politics. But trust and perception is a very important thing. If it is not available, and here are the latest cases with the Croatian judiciary, arrests in Osijek, Mr Mamic, how can we expect the citizens to believe that the same Croatian judiciary in which the proceedings are very long and until another case happens when maybe judges will come to grips with someone who bribed them, we won't know about it. And that's what our DORH and the institutions that should oversee the judiciary don't do. Why? We can talk about that. How? We can talk about that. But I'm sure by changing only two people at the head of the institutions we won't achieve much. There is a need for a radical reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75673	And now Mrs. Anka, Mr. Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75674	Thank you very much. A colleague of Hajdukovic's all these affairs that are and are in public space certainly does not benefit the citizens from believing in the judiciary, even more. But the DORH, or leader of the DORH, has no sense of trust or belief in the government. So today, there's a government official we haven't heard the word that he went out at all, that he said that anything was obvious to both the report and the rest. Let's be honest, this is about, in fact, all the time we're talking about two people, two women who are the leaders of the DORH or USKOK, but what's the result of this report, so we're discussing the 2020 report, we're talking about the situation that we saw in 2021 with that half of that report, the current leader of the DORH wasn't in charge even though it was from the system, but what I was expecting, two words from the government. [[Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75675	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75676	Thank you very much. I was expecting it. I was expecting a lot more of my colleagues, Mr. Tarritash. I expected the Croatian Parliament to discuss, for example, the reports of the Ombudsman, who has been standing for several years, to say so on the lager or not. And the female attorney general is the person we appointed, so the Croatian Parliament should be ours, and I will not say conscience, but at least the lacmus paper on the state of law, the consumption of rights and access to the rights that our citizens should have according to the laws that we bring here. So, if we speak from just that aspect of how much we ourselves as an institution are experiencing seriously, that is, by ruling it, it tells you enough. And especially if we are talking about a situation where we have serious doubts about the operation of the DORH, I say maybe not because of two people, but because of the whole system as it is set up, and that the ruling or government does not need to be shown orally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75677	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Carolina Vidovic Kristo's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75678	Ladies and gentlemen, the only useful information of this DORH report is given in the introduction of the same, and this is the constitutional description of the role of the state's attorney's office in Article. 121.a. determines that the DORH is an independent and independent legal body which is obliged to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal bodies, which is required to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights. I'm from HS on November 26, 2021. Gentlemen, I find that everything your constitution has decreed you are doing the opposite. And here's your proof. You've filed a criminal case against Denis Mohenski for corruption in the case of Zagreb's advent houses. The same actions were also committed by the companies “Bear or Egg”, and “Katapult Promotion”. Why didn't you start an investigation against these companies? And the role of the Zagreb Tourist Board, which “Katapult Promotion” has also provided subsidies for these corruption activities, is a special story that you have not explored either. Furthermore, how is it possible to 7g. You haven't processed the privatisation case of Croatia's insurance? You are aware that a criminal offence has been committed to react immediately. This means that your criminal application was filed in 2014, the state audit said in its report in 2015 that the privatisation of Croatia's insurance was illegal and you still do nothing. Also in the case of the Zagreb Advent, which I am talking about, the portal Index is still 2019. You have published the entire structure of crime, and as I have already mentioned in 2021, you have opened the stated selective mini investigation, which proves that you were not allowed to open the case at all for Milan Bandic's life, which proves that you are neither independent nor independent. If, in the case of Croatia, the insurance of the Republic of Croatia incomes 3.5 billion kuna less than it could in a normal privatisation venture, then it is proof that you are doing damage to the property of the Croatian state instead of protecting it as prescribed by the Constitution. Tell me further what happened to the Janaf case, the investigation has been open for 14 months, where is the indictment? European investigators have shown that in a short time they solve the case, it takes you years for what normal investigators do in two weeks. Do you have to ask Plenkovic what evidence you can use? Has Plenkovic's role in the Janaf case been examined? So he renamed Dragan Kovacevic even though he knew from SOA that the said gentleman had property as an Arab sheik. I'm here to make heavy and serious accusations against your work, you have to give an answer. You're wrong if you think this lawlessness can go unpunished. You follow the logic imposed in the Croatian public space, which is that the Croatian people are not an equal people in Europe, and thus cannot consume civilization achievements such as the rule of law in one country as other peoples in the EU. But the ladies and gentlemen of the DORH leadership won't get away with it. And be aware that the zero point of establishing a functional rule of law will be to determine the responsibility of you of the DORH, of those who oppose the constitution, against the law and European norms, to protect corruption. You do not protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, you participate in human rights violations of Croatian citizens, e.g. You allow the experience of Croatian citizens by interest agencies supported by the CNB. No one has given you the right to violate Croatian laws, Croatian constitutions, and fundamental values of the EU. Think carefully about everything I've brought to you here because the time of the billing is getting closer. Of course, of all the above, I am absolutely against it, and I will vote against this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75679	Thank you, no replicas, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirela Ahmetovic is on her way now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75680	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The public should not be reminded of the shame suffered by the DORH and USKOKO related to the Zalac affair. The second shame is that hilarious press conference of the main state attorney and former director of USKOK, who in the manner of the cartoon "A is it!" actually referred only to one another and examined journalists. But top shame, the top shame is information that the state's chief attorney has launched surveillance over the work of the Director of UskoK in the case of Žalac, but unfortunately they did not have a file because they handed the original file over to the European prosecutor and did not make a copy. What I am interested in is the report for 2020, in which the main state attorney and her deputy expressed dissatisfaction at today's meeting of the Anti-Corruption Council, since none of the interested parties in the debate allegedly referred to this report was actually structured and comprehensive at first sight, however, when looking at the scale and content, intransparency, lack of clarity and lack of information, particularly in the financial section. For example. There's no record of how much money was spent in the digitalization of the file anywhere. Is there even a digitalization of the file? Judging by these recent events, it's hardly possible. The financial report is missing and nothing can be read from it on the basis of which we would see how financial resources are managed. It's incomprehensible for me to take on a page. For example, 224 reports say that funds and co-operation with the Ministry of Justice are satisfactory, and p. 228 In addition, you explicitly state that the material status of officials and officials is not satisfactory, which is why high quality personnel leave the service. Where is the information about what is unsatisfactory, what has been asked as a responsible person to fix, what are the salaries that would satisfy officials to continue working in the system? We didn't see anything about it in the report. Nothing that actually points to a lack of vision and general lack of interest in the work of the state's attorney's office. Let's get some surveillance, they've been interesting lately. In the report to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council. We learn from 218 to 224 that supervision is based on the Constitution and individual laws, which is the responsibility of the State Attorney's Office except for several pages in which re-access is generally not known how many controls have been carried out, which have been monitored, what are the results of the supervision, what are the sanctions, which is the final result if there have been any failures in the supervision of how many people have been sanctioned and why, we can't see any of them. According to this approach, I am now more clear on why applications are being rejected, why USKOK does not do its job and why it is difficult to miss out on the state's attorney's side. Because surveillance, at least according to this report is gone. And a little more about the rejected applications. The report said that USKOK received 1719 criminal reports in 2020, which is 25.93% growth compared to 2019, rejected 1380, which is about 10% higher compared to the previous year. It explains that in the case of rejected criminal charges it is mostly about citizens who are unhappy with the verdicts, but also about attempting to disabling political opponents with deliberate criminal charges. We don't see a percentage and we don't see a clean picture again. What is this percentage in which participants are actually those who are trying to politically disabling political opponents? We can rightly ask the learned case, Žalac, how many applications are rejected by the action and the pressure of politics, and of course we will not get an answer to that. It is evident that politics has a significant impact on the work of bodies that should be, according to Prime Minister Plenkovic, independent and independent. It is denied even by the European Commission's report, the same to which it hopes so much, which shows that politics has a major impact on the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. It is as symptomatic as the Government in its consent to the work of the DORH apostrophe of the same data by thanking the work of USKOK for the up-to-dateness because they have only one outstanding object left. I would have thought that this unsolved object was the one that already mentioned the case of the Gralac, but I was denied the fact that the object was not even launched and what was at all with the Director of the USKOK. It's obvious, and she admits she's made a difficult failure, and she's still at the head of the UskoK. If you change it, you hit on yourself because you knew and you had to know that UskoK doesn't do his job in the case of Grief. I'm very interested in the epilogue of these surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75681	Thank you. Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75682	Do not take this issue seriously, not seriously, do not take it personally, take it seriously, because your party cannot really talk about corruption. Namely, the corruption of your tycoon Goran Štrok, Damir Vrhovnik, the forgotten case of Viktor Lenco or Mirko Pavicic was carried out under the protection of your SDP. It is just Rijeka under the authority of the SDP that is the epicenter of corruption from 1945 to today. Your former member Slavko Linić has been the organizer of the biggest corruption cases since the establishment of the Croatian state, and these are certainly Croatian insurance and pre-departure deals. The SDP named Mladen Bajic and Dinko Cvitana, and they cared for the protection of this corruption. So, are you as a young politician aware of the weight of your party's sin What is there for a legal disorder and injustice in our country? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75683	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75684	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. I'm sorry you don't hear and don't want to hear everything I've been saying since I got into high politics, which is that nothing means anything to me at all to the omen of SDP, HDZ, Homeland Movement, independent when it comes to corruption. No one happier than me would be if you supported your claims with arguments, support and criminal charges, and that those criminal charges were received by an epilogue and that no one, nor would the chief state attorney, protect anyone in this case, so that Andreja Plenkovic, as well as anyone from the SDP, would, however. I'm sorry that you don't hear or believe it because you're talking to your political body, or your electoral body, you don't want to hear it, and you don't want to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75685	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75686	So, Art. 238th absolute public deception, you when you say why I do not file criminal charges, the criminal application for Croatia is launched, was raised in 2014. In 2015, the State Audit found that it was absolutely a crime, and you are your party, not you personally, I said don't take it personally your party has also named Mladen Bajic and Dinko Cvitana, all of which happened at the time, you as a party must be fenced from these tycoons of yours and from all these crimes that led to this mess in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75687	As usual, I don't go into content, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a replica. Here are Mrs Ahmetovic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75688	Thank you very much. My colleague Vidović Kristo was injured by the Rules of Procedure. In 238, disdaining me since I didn't say at all that I was sorry that criminal charges were not filed, so colleagues Kristo listen a little better to what I'm saying. First of all, I would like to warn you that Mr. Slavko Linic is not a member of the SDP, and I also told you this time where I am lucky that all those against whom criminal charges have been filed and who have been prosecuted have an epilogue without the state's attorney defending them. As he defends the HDZ dunes. [[Upadica Radin: Thank you very much Mrs Ahmetović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75689	Thank you. It was a replica of the one by definition and by the difolt, you have a warning. Mrs. Ivana Kekin is on her way. It's gone, it's gone, it's on the screen. Oh, here you go. [[I'm here.]] Here you go, Mrs. Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75690	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, above all, to the congregation services that have enabled me to join in under these circumstances. Respected state's attorney. Today you present your report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office of 2020. and I am aware that you took over the state's attorney's office in May that year and that, in that sense, in 2020, you and the transition year in which you were welcomed by a whole series of cases both active and prepared. Today, as part of this debate, I would like to talk about a case that has recently reached the very finale, and it is in the European Court of Human Rights, which, unfortunately, has shown and demonstrated great gaps in the work of the state's attorney, and I want to talk about it to determine whether it is in 2020. Ever since you took office, it has been possible for the DORH to make such mistakes in the steps and give in to the pressures as it is now determined through this verdict. It is about the European Court's ruling on the death of a Afghan girl named Madina Husini near the border of the Republic of Croatia. This morning I asked the question about this case on the Justice Committee, and we heard that the DORH took great note of this verdict and that certainly the lesson obvious by the European Court of Human Rights will also apply in the future the work of the DORH, which we are pleased to hear, but I continue to worry whether it was possible in 2020 that the DORH is making such big mistakes as it did in 2018 and 2019. as the European Court of Human Rights has seen. For example. The state's attorney's office had no critical approach and the Priory believed the testimony of the police officers who banished the Husini family to the night across the border, without ordering simple evidence of whether or not the Husini family had been filmed or not. that it requested that the geolocation of police and family cell phones be established to clarify the movements of police officers and families several hours before the accident. It is very simple investigative actions that the DORH turned its head on even though the DORH had been warned by the lawyer of the Husini family and by the attorney general. But then one step further, a few months later the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Vukovar instead of investigating the police approves the investigation of a family attorney and human rights activists. Apparently, someone from the police wants to create a false story that the lawyer forged the authority of the Husini family. The ruling shows that police are coming to the Municipal State Attorney's Office on 3 April 2018 with a request for the approval of the geographical skills of the signed authority. The municipal state's attorney's office rejects them, a day later, here's the police again at the municipal state's attorney's office who, overnight, changes the decision and approves of the police entering the offices of the law firm and excludes power of attorney in order for them to go to graphic art. All of this later turned out to be unfounded. And that's why I have to ask you state's attorneys, if you haven't paid attention to these offices in 2020. will you now call for the interview of the person in charge of your office who made these failures? Will you ask them if anyone in politics has been putting pressure on them, and who was it? How are you going to conduct these investigations? And finally, what are your guarantees that such failures didn't happen in other cases in 2020. And that it won't happen in the next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75691	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75692	Thank you very much. My colleague Kekin, I think that you have partly touched what I also wanted to say in my debate about what I want to achieve through this replica, which is a systematic disrespect by the executive authority and the institutions that we have established ourselves in this case by the attorney general or the civil defender, let me express myself sexually neutrally. In fact, the attorney general warns that she was denied access to the kind of checks she should have, and I think it is in the interest of all of us, but above all, of the MUP and the police themselves to remove all these doubts. If, therefore, you deny access to such information to the occupier who is the authority of all of us? Certainly not an increase of trust in the work of the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75693	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75694	Thank you. Yes, here I can say that I really agree and also agree with what you said before that one of the key problems that we are talking about today is the general trust in the institutions of our country, and that these cases that we have been warned today on several occasions by the state's attorney itself that we are not focusing on them and that we are focusing on the report, which is impossible because these cases of corruption are actually seizing us from week to week, and that even worse all Croatian citizens and citizens are destroying and what little confidence may have existed because how to trust institutions when those institutions that should absolutely protect and implement the laws that we bring to the Assembly in this are constantly failing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75695	Thank you very much. And now the next individual debate will have a respected representative, Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75696	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state's attorneys. One of the things that needs to be recognised by our corrupt octopus is that it can recognize good trends, there are very fast, often much faster than legislators. So, for example, most of the affairs related to political corruption are at least the biggest ones we have lately, related to two top processes at EU level, something called buzzwords that go into fashion, so they're marked by everything that's going on, and that's digitization and green transformation. Our corrupt octopus learned very quickly how it can shake not only money from the state budget but also money from European funds intended for famous digitisation. So let's say for digitization besides having this 13 million kuna software case where the defendant Gabriela Žalac as former minister and former SAFU director, Mr. Petric, there is also this case that I have already mentioned to you, and this is the case of the centre of shared services that we are increasing financially, it is 360 million kunas for which we actually know whether there will be a justifiable cost and what has been spent so far because it is evident that there has been a guessing in the contests. In addition to digitization, our corrupt octopus has certainly discovered a green transformation. Renewable energy sources and now this is the area I am monitoring because the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, renewable energy sources have become the golden coke for extraction and state money through subsidies, but also now EU money. So there's one of the key cases that we have that DORH still managed to lead to, we believe in the prosecution whether and that they will have some judicial epilogue, which is the Krsh-Paden case. But let's take a look at this Krsh-Paden case, where did he stop? He stood on Josepha Romec. Who will end up in charge of the Krsh-Paden? Josepha Rimac will answer, and she will answer because you were there to get her apartment fixed up for that money, she favored the investor, but who normally in this country believes that the whole operation was carried out by Josipa Rimac and that she performed it without the knowledge of the ministers in charge. I have to say, it's kind of weird for me that every time the reconnaissances come and we could show that they're so-called. Live ministers, so those who are now involved in an affair to crack measures. Here's the measure, and in the case of a Roman, she found out that her bug was in her car, shot in some other cases. It would actually be interesting of you here today to hear how many times you've had this year alone or past if it's already a report for the past, to have measures fired in cases of political corruption, so someone tipped someone off that it was under measures. So, for Krš-Padjene, Josipa Rimac will answer, and I wonder alive whether you may have information about how many times Minister Coric met with this investor, whether he was always with him in the rooms of the ministry or elsewhere. Whether Minister Maric is also through meetings etc. and, in any way, he had the opportunity to do this business with that investment, or Josepha Rimac would be what she might actually become director of USKOK, which is a sacrificial lamb to cover all those other larger faces in all those affairs. In addition to Krš-Pađen, we also have the case of the first Geothermal Power Plant Mr. Jurilj, which is why Croatia will obviously be sued by Turkish investors and internationally for reasons that it has also clearly been granted and has not been prosecuted by the case of very cloudy pushing Turkish investors out of the whole story. None of these large corruption cases of corrupt octopus here today we haven't heard and we haven't heard what DORH's tactics are that such cases really have a judicial epilogue. You have to stop me. I've been over 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75697	... That's why I've overlooked you for a little time, but it's no big deal. [[Last-on speaker]] We have several replicas, the first respected representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75698	counterpart Bencic, today one of the MPs, speaking on behalf of HDZ, quoted late Milan Bandic as saying with that disgusting flossula "let the institutions do their job". However, institutions do not do their job, and when they do, they do it selectively openly in violation of Croatian law. Here's an example of you and I have an example, so please comment. What is the difference when Vukovar Željko Sabo offers privileges to HDZ council members, and because of this, he is accused of the DORH and eventually convicted and when Zarko Tušek today's Mayor Oroslavlja offers financial privileges for political engagement. Tell me, do you think the DORH is independent, does it act independently, and is this another evidence of a controlled judiciary, which has been attested by the European Commission, and are these and similar cases actually possible to say poison to the rule of law in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75699	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75700	Thank you. Well, I will first answer that if institutions really did do their job effectively and quickly then Bandic would never say "let the institutions do their job". It's just like that. He could say that by knowing that the institutions would never come to an end and there they were. What remains is the question of his legacy and whether at least those cases where actors are still alive and very well lived, are very well living out of millions, dozens and hundreds of millions that have been pulled out of the city, under the blessing of Milan Bandic. However, we can't see these cases leading at least to the level of the indictment. As for the case "what would you be" in my opinion, it is absolutely the same case, it is offered certain benefits for, to support, to vote and to create the majority. I don't see that any difference maybe the only DORH in the meantime realized that it was part of a political culture in Croatia, so there. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75701	Thanks, we can't always have more time. Now, the replica will have a respected representative, Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75702	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bencic, you are right, except for historical gains, you pointed to the potential sector, or two sectors, as a potential source of corruption. It's digitization, we live in the fourth industrial revolution or the fifth, and that's green development because we live in sustainable development, but these scammers have forgotten that it's the easiest thing to prove in digitalization, the easiest thing to do because it's an information clock, it's known how much hardware, software, and so on. And that's why competitions with 5 million kunas usually get companies that give 700,000 kuna. But you often have, you have a club conference, there's no Mr. Grbino president of the SDP, so I'm curious about what your emotional attitude is to be with him at the conference, and he at this club in his club, the SDP Club, I have a BUSCOK indictee. So, how do you trust DORH institutions, how do you believe in political parties, whether that feeling of yours, the sense of presummation of innocence that is selective or really have some bad.../incomprehensible/... I know that you have.../incomprehensible/... I know that you have it bad, 100% bad because I've known you for a long time, but I'm very interested in what you're going to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75703	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75704	So here's what I'm going to answer you for, is that you're trying to instrumentalize me here for your personal accounts with the SDP, and that's not going to work, is it? So you have to, you have to ask someone from the SDP what their feelings are. I have a situation like this and my relationship with it. When someone's been charged, I really don't think that person should be acting any more public duty at the time. I also think that what applies to ordinary people, ordinary citizens, and that's for every job, for a cleaning lady somewhere, must bring confirmation not of impunity but that it is not a criminal procedure, that all of us should do so and that some rules must apply equally to everyone, including us, here. Here's my position on the general tolerance of corruption and so on. Presumptions of innocence which the prime minister drags out and dissuades innocence when it comes to someone he's been protecting for a long time. And the only thing that should actually be true in that case, given the experience of the last year of how many people have been charged here is Presumption that they are truly guilty. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75705	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75706	Thank you very much. My dear colleagues, I'm glad that you've answered this charming question, and I would say that the man in the abstinence crisis has responded exactly as the SDP behaves, and that is, as we can see, the gentleman is not in the assembly, and he's not in any of his duties in the SDP, nor has he any function in the SDP. But let's go to what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are interested in, and what the gentleman who has now come out of it doesn't care about. A little bit about protecting the Republic of Croatia's assets. Are you aware that the DORH is, for example, obliged to protect the unlawful use or to take actions against the illegal use of property or land particles owned by the Republic of Croatia, which, for example, does not do, but does, for example, an illegal quarry. So there's also a case in the Long War, remember we also had a board discussion about it. I wish you could explain things to the citizens a little bit and warn them about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75707	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75708	Yes, thank you, this first part I'm going to skip I say it must be between you, this second part is extremely important, and this is the function of the DORH of his civil legal department in which the key function is actually representing the Republic of Croatia in, in property legal and general in civil litigation or protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I just had a meeting today with ministry representatives to find some solution for the Long War, and therefore there are many examples where we had illegal waste dumps, where we had illegal mining, where we had illegal use in various ways of natural resources of the Republic of Croatia that were not sanctioned in time. There would be huge damage to the Republic of Croatia, the company would, of course, get out of the company's money, declare bankruptcy, and nothing, you have no one to charge for. What I'm afraid of is that it doesn't happen to the Long War, but I believe it's not because we're working on it, but a lot of things we haven't been able to protect in that way before, and I say pro futuro anymore, we need to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75709	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, 3 days ago, it ended exactly the year since we and Zagreb applied to DORH for criminal charges against the then mayor Milan Bandic and unknown perpetrators for the criminal part of the abuse of positions and powers, taking bribes and committing a crime in the criminal association system because there was a reasonable doubt that the mayor of the City of Zagreb Milan Bandić, together with the unknown perpetrators, had seriously injured the duty of protecting the property interests of the citizens of Zagreb, because the conclusion of numerous harmful contracts and annexes damaged the budget of the City of Zagreb, meant that the taxpayers' money meant our money for the amount of at least 89 million kuna, and it also allowed the construction company Pionir to have been selected as the best bidder for the price of 299 million but until the withdrawal of the criminal application for the same works from the tendering documentation for the construction of the railways of the Slje building of the total city works with only 389 titles. There is therefore further suspicion that he has received a bribe and has done so in a way that he has teamed up with at least 2 other persons with a common goal of committing criminal acts and damage to the City of Zagreb budget. We all remember a seven-hour film published by an unknown author on Youtube, which deals with the entire chronology of the construction of the Sljemjenik cabler from the first signing of the contract until several months before the public publication. DORH and USKOK had enough elements to launch an investigation under official duty. However, taught by the experience of the previous years not raising charges against Milan Bandic in countless cases, so as to avoid any possibility that this investigation might not be initiated, we have submitted our application, although I believe we all remember today, but today we have reminded the famous Bandic, so am I afraid of criminal charges, so I have 300, when the new one rises, I smile and with my immediate hand. Indeed, Milan Bandic is an eclectic example of the one protected by Sanader's HDZ and continued by Plenkovic's HDZ, so I respect the prime minister's wish and do a formal distinction between the two HDZs. However, it is evident that the handwriting is the same that the paths of corruption are the same, that non-processing by the DORH is selected and protected by the political interests of HDZ, therefore there is no difference, continuity is not interrupted. He did what he wanted, the truth, yeah, yeah, yeah, he was arrested twice, a little in prison, some charges were filed, but he kept going as old, spreading and developing his corrupt octopus until no judicial verdict came. It was protected both by Sanader and Plenkovic and one and the other HDZ if the prime minister likes it better. Here we are today listening to HDZ representatives quote their friend Bandic in the debate, let the institutions do their job. The cynicism of the sentence became a symbol of not investigating and non-processing corruption. But we return to listen to Zagreb cablers, the most expensive cableway in Europe, which to this day is not open to the public because of the inability to get all the necessary permits. The application was submitted a year ago and a year ago and another three days ago and I have a very simple question, Madam State's attorney. When will you inform the public about the investigations and the results of these investigations and when will you press charges against those who have participated in this crime together with Notor Bandic? Yes, I remind her that the construction of the Sljemen cable company was a condition of the HDZ coalition with Bandic in 2017, so it's not just Bandic's cable, it's also the HDZ wire, and now it's kind of trying to forget, or is that maybe the reason there's no information about this investigation? We'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75711	Don't go. You have one replica from your colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75712	Here I will violate our club's absolute practice of never replicating ourselves because it's a little bit funny, but this time since it's a wire case that we've all actually dealt with and to hand over that criminal application last year, I have to point out once again that there are complicated cases, there are cases that require an extremely long time to obtain evidence, but there are also cases where indeed the whole evidence is handed over to the state's attorney because it exists. In the case of cableways, it's not exactly like that, but it's in a large part, it's in a large part. So it seems to me that the key answer that we need to get here today is, why cases like Zalac-Petric, cable, etc. where the evidence has already been integrated into the application? Why do they last so long?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75713	Thank you. Here's Honorable Representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75714	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, colleagues. Yeah, that's what one of the biggest problems is, because in the case of cablers in the seven-hour movie, consumers, contracts, job deals, orders, inspection reports, various projects were offered, so we'd say the complete documentation that was needed, maybe it needed to be completed, but there's nothing happened. And of course, the conclusion is that this is because these certain persons have political protection from certain political interests. And until the practice is interrupted, until the state's attorney's office becomes a truly independent institution, happiness in the Croatian judiciary and corruption processing will be gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75715	Thank you. He will now speak with a respected representative, Mako Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75716	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, MPs. This report is trying to suggest that the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of law is well. The report was unreservedly supported by the Government, and all without a single word about current events that shed other light on the state of the state of the state of the state of attorney and the role of the state's attorney general. Let's mention two cases, the Gabriele Zalac case and the Software case and the Agrokor case. In the case of Gabriela Žalac, the chief state attorney specifically stated at a press conference that she was not familiar with the case, that she knew about the other two cases where an investigation was conducted against Gabriela Žalac, but that she did not know about this. At the same time, the Director of USKOK, who was also present, said that the main state attorney had been notified by Article. 74. For those of you who don't know, it's about art. 74. A law on the state's attorney's office which expressly imposes the obligation of a lower state attorney to inform the state's attorney of such significant matters. So the Director of Uskok immediately pointed out that you were lying. As far as we know, you have been notified several times about this subject of which in July 2020 and with a detailed report, please reply, whether or not it is necessary to request a report and a memo from the DORH and USKOK that has been delivered to you, so let us all see it, perhaps then you will answer. If, however, you are aware of why you lied to the general public, what is your motive and shouldn't you have informed the European Prosecutor's Office, or who is really responsible for the whole case? What is the motive for then causing a media link to the director of USKOK, whose mandate has been set in motion towards the record number of HDZ ministers? Is all this done in agreement with the Prime Minister? Tell me, do you know which other secrets are hidden by the cell phones of the arrested Gabriela Kajac and Josepha Rimac? Is this your fault? If you are already informed, isn't it really your decision to suspend the conduct of this case? By the way, by the way, you're allowing the media to claim that USKOK was supposed to copy the file and that it's a scandal that wasn't made, but tell me, is it even allowed for the competent state attorney's office to have a copy of the file in the first place, given that it's a secret and unauthorized and unauthorized person to have no knowledge at all about these cases? As far as Agrokora is concerned, you said publicly that you pulled the file to clear it from possible contamination due to the fact that it was being handled by a deputy who was arrested for leaking data in that case for the benefit of the defense. But since the indictment has been filed because it is estimated that there is a reasonable suspicion of committing a crime, but in which the court has asked the question of the legality of art, is it not true that there is actually no art in that file to confirm the indictment? Isn't it true that the decision of the DORH Summit there just made by illegal art that could have been presumed illegal from the beginning? How much did it cost that it can't be used now, how much would it cost to fix it, and how long will it take, and how much will it cost the Republic of Croatia if the Republic of Croatia loses in the arbitration proceedings against Todorovic? Whose responsibility will it be? Given this, it's obvious that the state's attorney's office is not doing well, and right now it's the responsibility of the state's attorney general. Please give us some proof that what's stated in the report is correct and that everything is fine. Please don't lie to us all. The Constitution forbids you. And he would ask you the same questions I asked you this morning. Were you familiar or were you not familiar with the subject of the Grief, when you met and when you were telling the truth and why? What are your motives for carrying out lies? Who did you agree to falsely present the facts with? Did you inform the European Prosecutor's Office? Why didn't you and who did you deal with? Why do you allow someone else to be held responsible for your failure and who exactly is to blame for the shameful art of Agrokor, who will answer for it and who will be responsible for the protection of the Republic of Croatia if she loses her arbitration? Ladies and gentlemen, the state in which the judge processes Zdravko Mamic from the BiH refugees speaks much more about the situation in our state's attorney's office than this report that you just received and which we are discussing today. So without answering these questions and any other questions, apart from the state's attorney's shift, we have nothing relevant to discuss and we have nothing to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75717	The next one will be spoken by respected representative Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75718	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed State's Attorney General. It is good that we are discussing this report today, and it is not too late, because it is included in the agenda, but it has come to the agenda before the debate on the budget, so if we already have staff and other logistics problems in the functioning of the state's attorney's office on which the parliamentary majority has laminated, now is the moment that the conditions of work and wages in the state's attorney's office are improved, regardless of who is running it and who is doing it, therefore, without the name and last name, because otherwise, man would have thought that this was deliberately done in the state's attorney's office so that it would be very susceptible and vulnerable to manipulation, which is ultimately practice and showed through certain arrests that have not happened. So I now appeal to the parliamentary majority to make through the budget the state's attorney's office invulnerable, invulnerable, and to have ideal working conditions, if that suits you, and I'm not sure that suits you. I am pleased to hear my debate about the 2019 report carefully, but I will point out that again, although it is only nomotechnics. So, Art. 72. The law on State's Attorney-General says that the chief state attorney, i.e. the chief state's attorney, is due by 30 April, which is also done, to present an annual report on his work, hence on the work of the attorney general. In 2019, we had a report on the work of the state's attorney's office and on the work of state's attorneys in 2019, this year we have a report on the work of the main state's attorney, which is true, and we have a report on the work of the state's attorney's office, which is, in my opinion, an unnecessary part of the title because it is also in the article. The 72nd stands exactly what the mandatory content of the report itself is. Now, what are recent events, and what are just speculations about which no one should have said anything because they're investigations in the body. The fact is that on this basis, the public without further ado, and we, too, can have what is always said.../The speaker speaks English./... i.e. justifiable doubt about what is happening. Because on the one hand we have Mrs. Marusic who says that according to the powers of the investigation she has taken over the European Prosecutor's Office, then we have Mrs. Tamara Laptos who also worked in the state's attorney's office who, I understand, who says her office can take over the case, whether in this particular case she did not take the case but de facto launched the procedure because the case is not alive. Here, so there's no obvious, and there doesn't have to be any communication with each other, but obviously while these people worked together, it's obvious that, as I say, they weren't really human relations, and now the question of the team is how the team works and how it worked until yesterday. Now, something has been said that the object is not alive, if something isn't alive, then it's dead. I mean, we might as well ask those who deal with it, which means the object isn't alive. That means he's dead. And he's not basically dead because he's been brought back to life, so what really interests our public is that I'm relieved that the EPO, so the European prosecution might find something else, and maybe it'll also cause fear to the bones and potential thieves in terms of European means, but the question is that thief, where there's no European means, as much as we de facto of these unlived dead or dead and alive, so how many zombie objects do we have in the state's attorney's office because I can't define them otherwise than zombie objects. And for the end, I'm going to say what was the announcement of PNUSKOK. which came out 10.11. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Read it. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, beautiful colleague Fabianić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75719	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75720	Thank you, Vice President Reiner. Madam state attorneys with co-workers, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs and parliamentary deputies, above all, since several times the budget for 2022 has been mentioned, and in some exhibitions there has been some dissatisfaction and with material rights which, of course after that, the possibility of staffing the DORH team and other judicial bodies, I am sorry that today we did not have a debate on how to make these things better, how to make it easier and easier for people to work, because indeed both in the DORH and in the USKOK and the entire judicial system as well as in the police, we have very good, honest and honest people who are really doing a very, very good job. Unfortunately, though, because of strange coincidences or strange events or strange errors, the debate has, as always, gone back several years in one negative direction, and we have not offered ourselves to the end of what is a model and which is a formula that we would like to reverse from that negative direction and get out of this negative direction out. Why did I mention coincidences? Why did I mention a negative direction? Because again we have a situation like we had a year ago when we had a closed session of the Committee on Internal Policy when the measures in the case of JANAF occurred, when it was known before that the shooting of the measures in the case of Rimac occurred, when we asked questions so how many people know about the measures happening to us then the same explanation of how independent the judicial system is and that we really can't ask anything that a strange scheme of circumstances would be part of what we were questioning in the JANAF affair about the shooting of the measures was finally able to connect to the Agrokor case. What is interesting is that in all that has been happening around Agrokor in these days, one intervention of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the work of our D.O.R.H. and our USKOK, where we have received a lot of unfavorable comments, unmistakable answers, and all together, has raised one even greater suspicion of what our bodies have done and how our bodies have done. From asking whether the DORH chief was aware of the case until the case was closed because, ultimately, in the official documents of the government that came before us where the number tables are, or how many cases are missing, it was said that USKOK had only one unfinished item that ended in January 2021. Therefore, it can be read because why not trust the government tables that the case is the Gralac, if that was the case, Zalac was finished for Croatian bodies in January 2021. He agreed with Agrokor where the prosecutor whom I mentioned was obviously already suspicious a year ago in the case of JANAF on suspicion that she was selling secrets from the investigation brought into question not only little Agrokor who had already been semi-declarated, rejected but brought into question the great Agrokor because today it is fair on the Justice Committee and when it will see the light of day, given that we have a huge decline on the edge of the charlatanism that we simply didn't know, we haven't established who the experts were and that there could be a clear and equitant conflict of interest which one object that was too important for the Croatian judiciary and for the trust of the Croatian citizens in order to be able to identify the new economy, because we can't really figure out how much of the new age we can've been able to figure out how much we can've been able to figure out how well for 4 years. So, it turns out that it is all atomic physics that is very difficult to respond to and then we wonder when such large cases end up with or for the resolution of the EU that goes this way or ends up on the edge of antiquity or when we end up with one of the reformers of the Croatian judiciary turning out to be a fugitive under the Croatian judiciary, and we never end up finding out how much the DORH has contributed, how much the judiciary has contributed to, I'm talking about Zdravko Mamić, as we can't even get a clear answer how and in what way the state's attorneyship plans to protect Croatian interests in the case of INA Mol Sanader where certain judgments fell. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75721	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75722	Dear counterpart Jaksic and you yourself have said on several occasions that you have confidence in institutions, in the political system, in parties, if we here in the assembly violate the same. We just saw, and there is no Mirela Ahmetovic, that the two Grbin Ahmetovic directly protect USKOK's indictee, directly. Then how can I trust the system, I won't ask you that. You know as well as Mrs. Oreshkovic the best of what the Law on Public Literature is. How do you comment that the chairman of the Board of Supervisors confirms his own sister who is a public notary, and since you are the chairman of the Justice Committee, the same rules apply to public notebooks as to judges. So obviously SDP, but we can also start cleaning up our own, their own parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75723	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75724	So I have no problem communicating either the first topic or the second topic because when arrests took place in Međimurje I was actually the first in front of the SDP on N1 television and then I said and I can do it again today that the then Mayor of Čakovec, the current fellow parliamentary representative Stjepan Kovac, first of all, and my friend, and if it turns out to be true everything that puts him on the burden that this is really something terribly bizarre, that I don't use any more difficult word where surely his political career as such is brought under great question and the question does make any sense at all. When we talk about the management of the Holding and the decisions in the City Administration of Zagreb, so as mayor, I can say, several times I communicated it, that sometimes in a great will, a great desire, a desire to change people may burn too quickly, I simply think that my colleague Tomašević made several decisions over his knee where he probably wanted to be as effective as possible, he got some political beatings and the process before the Committee of Conflict of Interest and we will see what those bodies will prove.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75725	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75726	Your Honor. Comrade Jaksic, you said in your debate that this debate had gone in some kind of negative direction. So for me, this is an extremely positive debate and an extremely positive day, and I feel extraordinary. So after what happened here today, where the state's chief attorney confessed after my question that she was informed that she had received on her desk the subject of Gabriele Žalac of Uskok, but she said she hadn't seen him. So she got something from Uskok, but she didn't see it. And I can only conclude after this today that the days of Zlate Hrvoj Šipek are numbered as the main state attorney and that this is a good day for the state's attorney's office and in general for the Republic of Croatia. So I don't know why you take this negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75727	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75728	It was a good day for you from early morning, since we had a joint session of the Committee on Justice and Anti-Corruption Council, so you immediately found yourself in a friendly atmosphere. So, if we talk about the USKOK-Zalac case, Zlata Hrvoja Šipek-Wanja Marusic today did not get a lot of answers to say that the answers we received were just further fuelled by certain doubts because every new answer puts new questions, but if these documents were found, if not all gone to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, then I guess that surveillance will see the light of day in some reasonable period, so we will hear what will be the next steps afterwards. Although we have established today that the chief of the USKOK is appointed head of the DORH, and it should surely be held accountable at that time. Satisfaction, dissatisfaction is now given that we want a glass half full or half empty. I can agree with you that it is good that some things are being cleared up, but for the Croatian state and society it would mean that we are in much better shape to have talked about those positive topics that I cited than what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75729	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by Honorable Representative Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75730	Vice President. I share the feelings of Nicola Grmoi, so I feel good too. Are any themes open? Michelle's gonna figure it out. As for historical gains, every institution and Parliament and our Rebro and the DORH have good and bad foreign, bright and dark moments. So, the bright moments were, for example, the highlight of Chief State Attorney Bajic, few countries in the world that arrest the prime minister, few state lawyers in the world who arrest the prime minister, little, on one hand, not on two single-digit numbers of one hand. On the other hand, there were dark moments, the press conference of Plenkovic and then the chief state attorney Cvitan, the choice of his successor who does not deal with criminal law but deals with civil law, as if we have democracy and as if we have been living in democracy for 500 years, but that's the case. When we look at corruption polls in the first place, the judiciary is then politicians, then politicians, and doctors, so Mrs. Maja Grba of us doctors, there are 14 Petrova out there, we're in two categories, we're politicians, we're doctors. But fortunately none of us fills the black chronicle, so there are exceptions. In other words, corruption has its own name and last name, cannot be tied to professions either, cannot be tied apart from exceptions to political parties, but it is definitely definitely, definitely related to the name. That's why this combination of Mr. Jaksic that Grbin and Ahmetovic directly protect, directly protect, directly protect the defendant's jumps is not good, not good. It's twilight, I won't be pathetic, the twilight of this left side of the parliament, and the twilight has begun with an attempt to protect the president of the former prime minister's office. So each party has its own dark and bad sides and a lot of you, I came later, Mrs. Hrvojo Šipek said that she came at a time of transition and was responsible for something she shouldn't have. But Mrs. Šipek please look at this press conference of you and the chiefs of Uskok, look at the peace weekend is a long, analyze the body language, look at the movements you should not be here are four psychiatrists and from all parties Petrov, Renata Sabelak Dračevac, as the cell is called and the fourth is Kekin, you should not be a psychologist or psychiatrist, but everything about everything speaks body language. That doesn't give way to trust, as I said two Grbin-Ahmets who directly protect, directly protect the defendant's jumps, so there's a big problem here too. Your deputy's arrest case is scandalous, scandalous. Well, I guess you have some preventative fuses, don't you? The man has a safe, I haven't seen it in my life that someone has a safe in the house idea is to have a safe, with millions of amounts, so I think where we live, we live in Chicago in the '30s at a time of prohibition. Well, I guess you have some, uh, mechanisms. In our.../incomprehensible/... 20 years ago, the situation was getting better and better, not to defend my group, it was known who the black sheep were, and we were cleaning them up so we no longer fill black columns, and remember 20, 30 years ago how many doctors there were in prisons, detentions. We've cleaned them up, cleaned them up, it's your mission, it's your mission, your DORH is your child, you're, you're the DORH's child, so you need to get into 100 speeds, not complain about the historical gains of some others. Few people, few frames, etc. Slamper a pair of excellences, given the original you don't have a copy. That's what, that's what's fundamental right. And what's going to happen with that? The originals will disappear, you don't have copies, okay, you don't have digital copies because the Grill didn't hire her friend from Split, but at least you're copying to the machine sim there, sim there. If we did that in health care, the numbers would be three-digit today. It wouldn't have killed 60 people. It would have killed 150, 250, 350 people. And so Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek is a serious task ahead of you if you manage to remain in that position. You have a number of good associates, but of course clean up that weed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75731	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75732	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how many emails come, a lot of messages from our citizens, open this case, mention this, send this from Split, so around a credit union of Bram where it also has no movement for four years but nothing has been done on this case. They warn me about the Agrokor case, but I brought it up in part this morning at this joint session that my colleague Jaksic and I had, therefore, the Committee on Justice and Anti-Corruption Council on KPMG, so where it is not only a question now that has been done where, instead of doing the Polish central for this branch in Croatia, which has worked parallelly for DORH, but also the fact that this KPMG already cost Croatian citizens there in 2000, 2001, so when in 2002 KPMG actually gave the opinion that the Rijeka Bank's financial report on 31.12.2001, it was perfectly fine to discover fraud and it cost Croatian citizens hundreds of millions of kunas damage to the KPMG, the same KPMG. And then the state's chief attorney is saying that she has not made the decision, but is defending her predecessors' decision to choose the KPMG. So there's a lot of gaps, and the biggest failure, so the biggest failure is what's been recognised here today. First, at the meeting of the Anti-Corruption Council, says the chief state attorney, I am in May whether this one took over, took office, and in February came a letter from the USKOK in this case, Žalac, so to the chief state attorney or director, that is, to the General State Attorney then Jelinič. And she says I couldn't know because it came months ago. So the attorney general should get acquainted with everything, these are key items involving both high-ranking politicians and officials, and then after my question here in the assembly when I got the information that she was also informed by USKOK in July 2021, she says I know that USKOK sent that case back to the state's attorney's office, but I didn't see it. So something to you, it's an object I don't know how many thousands of pages it looks like, it's like this and you haven't seen it, it's your explanation. And this is the case in which the head of the SAFU-led HDZ, which is charged with members of the HDZ presidency and former Minister Gabriela Žalac, you didn't see it, you were sent by UskoK, you didn't see it. He sent you in February 2020 you took over in May 2020 and again he sends you so when you are already in office two thousand, this year and you haven't seen it. So I don't know, I'm asking the question here how will you HDZ support it. How do you plan to support this? So, how do you think you're going to support the state's chief attorney after she admitted that she was informed about the case that the case came to her desk, it's a hood of this much paper and that she didn't see it, and you're going to support her report. So it's only one argument for you to return the favor now because it protected Plenkovic's mezmit Gabi. So that's the only argument. After this, Zlata Hrvoje Šipek can no longer be the state's chief attorney. And I expect this government, you can pass it on, or we won't, we won't, you can pass it on to this prime minister, and I expect a decision to come to the council on the resolution of the state's attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75733	The next debate will be the respected representative of Krunoslav Katičić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75734	Dear chairman, fellow state attorneys, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have been listening to this whole debate for a long time because I am also part of the Committee on Justice, so as I have already said many times before us today, as the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, the report on the work of the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia, of course, for 2020. The subject-matter report is rich in many, of course, objective indicators that need to be read, analyzed and one logical conclusion is that the same is made up by the rules of the profession, which paints in some way a real state in the state's attorneys in the entire Republic of Croatia. I remind you of the other public bodies of the State Attorney's Office in the past 2020. worked in the basic year which was one of the perhaps most difficult, marked by covid-19 as well as earthquakes in Zagreb, Sisak-moslavina, Krapinsko-Zagorje and Zagreb County unfortunately. This has also caused certain technical problems and evictions, etc. So I think that the state's attorney's office in that section has fulfilled the task because we really need to feel for these events. As indicated only in the report itself, it is divided into some logical parts of the work on criminal offences, the work of USKOK, the work on civil and administrative matters, and then the work on other types of subjects from the lighting of war crimes to hate speech and international arbitration. Furthermore, I hope that all possible NPOO funds will be taken care of and used, they are not small. It is known that the funds are significant and can certainly strengthen the ability of the state's attorneys and the entire judiciary as a whole. By listening to what I said today's debate, it is a fascinating relief that in this House, the work of all state institutions, including the work of the state's attorney's office, and even calling for these shifts and resignations for me without any reasonable and justifiable reason. It is interesting to note that it is about orchestrated demands and just repeating one and the same crimes that are recognized in public and constantly mentioned. It is therefore also, and this has already been said several times important to point out that the state's attorney's office is communicating with the public in order to avoid these recommendations and to really deal with the facts in public. By respecting the preface of the principle of "presumption of innocence", I think we should treat this body as well. What I said about the public I think is one of the most important news and will contribute to further transparency in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75735	We have one replica of the respected representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75736	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. Here's a good note that four, five media cases are actually mentioned here, and it's been ignored that 230,000 cases have been solved. So, it would be at least correct to commend those people who work in poor conditions, so if you want for a little pay, but they actually solved 230 cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75737	Dear Representative Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75738	Thank you. Your Honor, it is true, but if you look at the whole debate that was being held before the board, it is certainly commendable to do a number of state attorneys who are up-to-date, who are doing their job properly and despite these already difficult conditions that we have said. Of course, there is always a large part of the work done by the State's Attorney's Office, of course it's about the aforementioned international arbitration, it's about property law relations. It is mentioned during the debate and the part relating to the management and preservation of State property which is in the capacity of the State's attorney's office. I can say from my practice 20-year work with the attorney's office that many of the activities that could have caused adverse consequences for the Republic of Croatia and prevented them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75739	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by a respected representative of Nikola Mazhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75740	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respected chief state attorneys with a co-worker, respected state secretary, fellow MPs and fellow parliamentary deputies. In front of us today is the report by the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the National Attorney's Office in 2020. in which a report on the work on criminal and criminal matters is submitted, matters relating to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the organisation of material and financial conditions for the operation of the State's attorney, as well as the state and burden of the human potential of the State's attorney. It shall also contain an indication of the performance and quality of the work of the State Attorney's Office for the Criminal Department and the Civil-Government Department at the level of the entire system, and in particular at the level of the DORH. I'm sorry that exactly what the topic of today's agenda point is in some way at least expressed or least said, but also here is to allow us to respect both the currentities and all of us to say what is legally factual and true and justified, and therefore the data from this report for the work of the state's attorney's office in the past year. We see that all the indicators that are found are indicators that show that they're going in a positive direction. If we look at the performance indicator sent and given by the Council of Europe Commission and show that the rate of urgency has increased from 91% in 2016 to 100% 2020, if we see that the inflow of the case has also been lower in the past year, but that they are being resolved, if we see that unresolved cases are continuously reduced and if we see that the increase in solved cases has been increased by the resolver, then I think that regardless of party membership, political thinking and thinking should also be congratulated by state attorneys and deputies and the main state attorney. All of us here are aware not only of the pandemic Covida-19, the earthquakes but also of the conditions in which the state's attorney's staff are working, and I think for this reason these indicators are further gaining power. Let me, however, say a few words about what I have pointed out today in my replica, and that is what I consider to be a personal question of all questions or most important and priority, which is a question of persecuting the perpetrators of war crimes. As a result of the fact that the crime of war crimes is not outdated, this is, of course, the permanent obligation of all the authorities that are competent to carry out constant tests, investigations and ultimately prosecute the perpetrators of these most serious crimes. Up until now, 666 people have been convicted of war crimes cases committed in the city of Vukovar, and 109 in the city of Vukovar are still under way while an investigation has been launched for a total of 431 people. Aware of the complexity and complexity of this problem, of course, that there is a need for comprehensive access by the competent state authorities and for this reason also on 13 February 2018 was based on the proposal of the Chief Director of Police and the Special Working Group at the level of the Police Directorate, whose primary objective was to analyse all the previous criminal investigations and proceedings carried out, clarifying all the circumstances of the war crimes committed and research in coordination with the competent state attorneys. As a result, a total of 8 criminal charges against 15 persons have been filed since the date of the establishment of a working group on the territory of the city of Vukovar, for 27 crimes against the civilian population or prisoners of war to the detriment of 238 Croatian civilians and defenders. Unfortunately, there is also a question of the missing, which is the most painful issue and not only for the families of the missing and their loved ones but for all those who work daily to resolve these most difficult fates. And just today we have witnessed the discovery of a 151 mass grave in Croatia near Vukovar in which so far the remains of at least 10 bodies of people missing in the Homeland War have been found. Since 2016, thanks to Minister Medveda and Ministry of Croatian Defence 261 trial excavations have been made of which 99 in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. For this reason, I ask everyone in charge to continue working in this direction daily.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75741	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Simičević, I'm sorry, the respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear colleague, it makes sense that in your debate, you mentioned the work of the state's attorney's office on the crimes of war crimes. The report itself shows that 28 people were indicted during 2020, and the competent county courts ruled against 24 people and that for 14 persons convicted, for 3 liberating, and 7 were dropped because they died. And that's what's especially true about the victim, and you who live in Vukovar certainly testify to it every day because Vukovar was the most injured, which makes them feel like they won't even welcome that well-deserved justice. And I think as a society all together, all institutions need to make every effort to address this issue as much as possible in the nearest possible time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75743	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75744	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac, just like that. Not only are the families who are left without their loved ones and are still searching for them, they carry that wound, we think that every Croatian citizen who respects and loves this country wears that wound and will carry it for the rest of his life until justice is brought in and the last perpetrator of war crimes finds the last remains of missing persons. However, it is important to see that you do not care and work. And that's why I said that the police directorate founded a special group, that the Croatian Ministry of Defense has made additional efforts, that the state's attorney's office has submitted so far and condemned 666 people to commit crimes shows that what we've heard sometimes is one thing, and the facts are something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75745	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75746	Thank you, Vice President. Here, on the trail of my colleague's question, I feel really bad that war criminals are still at large, and I can think of people living in Vukovar or women being raped, abused or not knowing what crimes were committed. The Croatian state must from today not allow 30 years to pass without resolving matters again. We will only be free on our own in Croatia if all and one war criminal is brought to justice. I also appeal to you who are in Vukovar, but I also think that you too feel bad and all the Catholic Croats, all the well-intentioned people who live there, who live in the whole of Croatia, that we can no longer allow war criminals to walk free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75747	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75748	The feeling that justice is not satisfied or that justice is unattainable is greater than perhaps some other and physical pain. And a lot of things have been going back to the city of Vukovar since '98. We carry a burden on our backs and fight sometimes, I'd say against everyone myself. That is why the figures that have been exact in the last three or four years show not only that state institutions continue to work on processing and searching but also that with certain new models and criminal research and the inventions of missing persons, there can be results, regardless of the course of time and Serbia's non-cooperation and the removal of remains, but there is no need to lose hope and all must work together daily to find, but also to process war crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75749	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75750	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Mazhar, I will join you in commending the DORH on solving all the problems we had with war criminals, and I agree with my colleague Simicevic when he said actually with most of the exposure. You yourself know how much the town of Vukovar means to Croatian sovereigns, we are already in power there for several mandates and can say that this is one particularly painful point for all of us. And I wanted to ask you, here is today your coalition partner from the SDSS had one exhibit in which he mentioned the ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia. No one from the ruling responded to it, it's your coalition partner, they have a vice-president in the Republic of Croatia expected at least any, at least some reaction to this abominable act of even mentioning ethnic cleansing in this House especially by Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75751	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75752	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lili, for this replica of his. I am pleased that you too, like us, feel not only special feelings for the city of Vukovar but also the problems of solving and processing war crimes, finding the missing consciousness of all of us who are in the city of Vukovar whether in opposition or in a position we were once in power before, we are now in some way part of us in the honorable opposition, but these are over-the-counter issues that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the restoring ministries and state attorneys and I believe that when we talk about these issues we do not need to slave for some political interests. As for the war itself and the Homeland and the dignity of the Homeland War and the aggressors and the victims and this High House HS has brought the Declaration of the Homeland War in which everything is clearly written for anyone who wants to ask or say anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75753	Thank you very much. We are now going to the final presentation, the first to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75754	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Especially respected colleagues and colleagues from the ruling. Let's not run away from the fact that today we weren't just discussing the report on the work of the State's Attorney General for 2020. Today, we also discussed the initiation of her recall procedure because this impeachment was sought and, of course, it was the subject of debate and should be the subject of debate over everything that was going on in the state's attorney's office. However, do not think that we have not debated and what stands, and do not think that we are not aware that in the state's attorney's office and we have mentioned this, there are people who are responsible and worth doing their job, but do not be angry, for example, the crime of heavy theft, breaking into someone's motor vehicle is not the same as the criminal act of corruption committed by a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which represents it at this time destroys the fabric of Croatia as a state. Corruption at the highest levels, corruption in the government of the Republic of Croatia, such crimes are far more socially harmful to everything from the economy beyond our country than is one burglary in a motor vehicle. And I don't expect the state's chief attorney to know and to study the report of every theft that has happened in any of the Croatian cities, nor can it, nor should it be done at the end of the line, so there are those who are in charge of the municipal, county state attorneys, their deputies. But when a report on the criminal offence imposed on a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a minister, a member of the ruling party's presidency, comes to the table of the attorney general, then it is something that the main state attorney should at least look at and learn about what the report says. And yes, that's why we have to talk openly about the Gabriela Zalac case here, and that's why we have to point out the big problems, the gaps that happened in this case because they're symptomatic because it's hard to believe as well as in the case of Petrica and SAFU that it only happened once. It's hard to believe that only one item ended up in a drawer. A year ago, we wanted to set up an investigative commission in this House to deal with leaks of information, and you ruled against it. We are now asking that an investigative committee be established to deal with exactly these kind of failures that have led to the criminal proceedings against Mrs. Zalac, it's connected, it's connected. The institutions in the Republic of Croatia are not doing their jobs, mainly because the last few years under the HDZ pass name people who have obviously been brought here to prevent them, so that those industrious, hardworking, those who want to defend the law can prevent those who want to defend the law from doing what they are doing, from the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest to the state's attorney if you can't prevent those you've chosen then abolish their powers through the amendments to the law. And it has become something that the institutions in Croatia make captives, and thus our state and our society. And our society, until this slavery is broken, will not be able to move forward. Therefore, in this final statement on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I must say once again, we cannot support this report, but we all call on us to make a decision between the two very simple choices next week, whether we are to fight corruption or to support this corruption. By voting either by raising hands or by pressing this button next week, we will show whether we want to fight corruption and whether we want to free Croatia from the slavery that this corruption, systemic corruption, introduced it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75755	Next, the next one will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the finally respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75756	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have one simple definition, one very simplified interpretation of what is unfair and what is unfair and applicable is more or less to all situations of whatever it is. So, in my opinion, are you going to introduce a little order to the Honorable Chairman, or is that just me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75757	A fellow Thunderbolt has returned to his post alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75758	I didn't mean you, the rest of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75759	And of course not, of course you've always thought of others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75760	So I find it unfair and unfair to turn to the weaker when it is, by all accounts, the main culprit or at least equally guilty to someone who is much stronger in one situation. And the one who's much stronger here than the state's chief attorney is the one who chooses her and who decides her fate, which is Andrej Plenkovic. After that problematic press conference today, another very unpleasant event took place for the main state attorney himself. And that is the fact that it has been established that, in time, she knew of the existence of this file relating to Minister Gabrielo Zalac. And when his colleague, Nikola Grmoy, asked the Hood so rhetorically, how will you support it now, then it is known how and why it is known. Why, by supporting this report, the support of the chief state attorney is precisely in the HDZ's best interest. And I'm sorry, I really think that this is really more about one awkwardness, not getting along, but really about that level of corrupting, but a respected chief state attorney is your biggest problem not understanding what this support by HDZ means and how it paints you in public. That's the problem. But in order not to just talk about the state's chief attorney, about corruption at the very top of the government, something needs to be said about what's waiting for us when all this changes together. Freeing Croatia from the growth of corruption means first of all bringing institutions into order, changing these institutions. One of the key is not only the State's Attorney's Office, but also the State's Attorney's Council, which conducts internal oversight. As long as we stick to this existing model by which the body has 11 members of that 7 from the ranks of state attorneys, 2 members from the level of the academy and 2 parliamentary representatives, as long as we have one unprofessional body we can't expect much from the internal control system within USKOK and within the DORH. During 2020, an information system for the submission of property cards was introduced. And here you can see how much this country has failed fat and is late in all because what the State's Attorney's Council introduced in 2020 has spent the year 2015, so 5 years late. And then it's even more painful to know that when the voltage is introduced by this informational, famous information system, that the story is stuck to administration, now watch out for the administration of electronically submitted property cards. In its systematization, the DOV has 11 official posts, of which only 3 are currently filled, and of these 3 persons one works part-time. So when they got all these state attorney property cards, they just couldn't handle them in that formal sense to even determine who put up with the property card in time, and who didn't, and that was a big, big range, big, big deal. Form, we haven't touched the contents yet. You know what the State's Attorney General's report, but it's not her fault, it's the politics, first of all HDZ, because you're currently in position, so it says in that report that it's a real check, so checking the contents of the state's attorneys' assets will start when conditions are obtained. And you know when these conditions come when you come down from power. So, you're the one who keeps holding back anything that has to do with a meaningful legally arranged, functional state. Why? Because in a system of weak, leprosy institutions like this, it's easier to hunt in a dim, and you know who has the biggest sharks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75761	The next one, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will finally speak to the respected representative Rajko Ostojic. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so he'll speak finally on behalf of the MPs' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75762	So, just a short time ago, about 12 days ago I think I sent an open letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic in which I asked that HS cannot do it alone, such a law, asked the government to refer the decision to the Parliament on the resolution of the main state attorney, but that Plenkovic himself also resigned. The president of the office, Zvonimir Frka-Petesic, replied that they would not do so, so that the government stands by the chief state attorney, and also that Prime Minister Plenkovic will not resign that we in opposition are at the disposal of the prime minister's impeachment. After that, other colleagues in the opposition went with this request, I see this conclusion, which will go parallel to this report by the main state attorney, and today the work body of HS dealing with the monitoring of corruption, which is the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, has reached a decision that obliges the Government to refer a decision to the Council on the resolution of the main state attorney. If anyone suspected that these requests meant my open letter and these requests from the opposition now and this decision by the Anti-Corruption Council or conclusion, I don't think anyone else suspects it, however, even the members I said in my debate of the ruling majority, fellow MPs after this recognition of Mrs. Zlata Hrvoje Šipek's chief state attorney that this case from the USKOK arrived at her table, which is actually a few thousand pages in which she claims she hasn't seen it, I don't think anyone is in doubt that Zlata Hrvatska Šipek can no longer remain the main state attorney. This change also means leaving Zlata Hrvoj Šipek from that position does not mean that we will get an independent DORH and independent institutions, it will take much more, it will require a change of government and the establishment of independent DORH institutions, and we will certainly vote against this report as a club Mosta, and we will vote on this conclusion that we will vote for this conclusion to initiate the recall of the main state attorney. For too long we have actually listened to that mantra that institutions should do their job that we actually have a certain deal with corruption that yet certain officials are being arrested, that certain affairs are happening, but it is all insufficient and these cases show that we actually have a systematic cover-up of corruption, and besides, I think here and I was looking at the brochure here that is in our seats where it actually shows that it's not just about the corruption problem, that we have a problem sanctioning war crimes. And it is a great shame not only for the ruling but for all of us that those who have destroyed our country, those who have persecuted our people that you are not adequately punished, in fact that no one is punished and that is our common shame and I must say that it makes me feel very bad as a Croatian citizen, as a representative and as a politician. Although I didn't vote for any state attorney from those who were in that position, but I feel responsible. So it's time for root changes, and as I said, it's not time for the DORH reform, but it's time for DORH to demonstrate and establish independent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75763	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75764	Mr. Vice President, the state's chief attorney with an associate and representative of the Department of Justice and Administration. First of all, I want to say that this report really contains a whole series of data and it is as such very relevant and can read from it and really see how the State's Attorney's Office worked. You have submitted a report not only on your work but primarily on the work of all state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia that 25 municipal state attorneys, those 15 county, USKOK and DORH and definitely when we see all these results that are mentioned in that report, what we can be satisfied in spite of this debate is that the positive trends are continued, not only continued, but in fact that positive trends in all segments are further improved. When I say so, I mean primarily a large number of indictments, a large number of reports over 200,000 as received in the same number, even in something larger, are particularly fascinating some data when we see from those indictments that have been filed almost 98% are confirmed. Of the charges filed, 88.8 actually ended the conviction procedure. This means that when the state's attorney's office enters the proceedings, when the procedure is mature, there is sufficient evidence that those facts are defended which are there. I don't know if anyone mentioned working in the civil segment, but really the data that according to the value of disputes in all the cases in which you represented the Republic of Croatia's success was achieved approximately in number, and compared to the value of more than 3 billion kuna. It is indeed something for the Republic of Croatia extremely, extremely significant. This debate today is quite colourful and concise with this current moment and this about one subject where we see whether it is the jurisdiction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office or whether it is orderly, our jurisdiction. This thing needs to be done to the end and really see what happened and then, of course, the timely public report. I fully understand why you're withdrawing the charges in Agrokor case. There's a very specific case where actually someone who participated in the investigative actions is now also in the process and he's quite contaminating this whole procedure and is actually putting himself at risk in the event of a possible some kind of judgment against that person that these are the conditions actually for breaking the proceedings here. But please don't take it as pressure or think about the philosophy of dealing with these large cases where 10 - 15 defendants are accused. In my opinion, accuse that top, accuse you of what's easy to prove, I know you're going to tell me this many things are complicated and it's difficult, but try to get out of that top where you're going to get some sort of verdict and from that verdict you're actually going to charge in some other circles. Because these kinds of procedures where 10-15 people are accused leave a large space for manipulating the rights that this defendant has and some have said for 20 years there will be no end to this process, perhaps even more. As for today's speech, your resignation is required, it's said that you are actually protecting HDZ and such things, in fact, from the accusations of the circle of persons accused both in your term and in your mandates earlier would not have been concluded. It affects actually where there's evidence, where there's this fact and on that side I'm very sorry that few people understand the presumption of innocence constitutional and here today so many names of barata this I would just remind myself of maybe 3 rather drastic objects. Herak former minister in the former government, Roncevic, also former minister in the former government and economics owner of the SMS company Mladic, they were eventually released, but their life is precisely due to these performances quite, quite devastated. The message on behalf of the HDZ Club is to process everything where you have evidence because whoever did something is neither HDZ nor SDP nor any other, it is an individual who is in conflict with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75765	Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative Marko Milanović litre will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75766	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, after today's debate on the State's Attorney's Office's work in 2020, we could hear a lot of criticism about the work of the DORH, and I must agree that some of these criticisms are very well founded because there has obviously been a failure in the software affair, the question of how it will end up with Agrokora, and there are still quite a number of cases that we can discuss. But we have to ask ourselves what state DORH is and how do people in DORH do their jobs, what resources are available to them, and how much freedom they really have. According to recent surveys, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia believe that the biggest problem in the state is the state of the economy, the crown crisis, unemployment and ultimately one of the top reasons, and 11%, respectively, that Croatian citizens say is the problem of corruption. Corruption is actually a cancer that has been destroying our country for decades now, which is the legacy we unfortunately have left in the former state. It is a failed project aimed at destroying and trampling everything in Croatia, I am sorry that this one tradition, or that one way of working, is continued in free Croatia. Corruption extends to all pores of Croatian society and thus the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia per citizen, which is the economy. The economy that is closely connected with state institutions and state and state structures, and evidence of this is all these affairs that we talked about today, and believe me, in a few years we will be standing here and discussing the restoration of the City of Zagreb and all that has happened during all the peripetias that will take place in the future. The original reason is the lack of economic freedoms in the Republic of Croatia which are closely linked to political and personal freedoms. We are here at the beginning of the EU, only Greece is worse than we are. Political and personal freedoms will lead to less dependence on the state and state institutions, which will reduce further corruption, which is obviously closely linked to state and government structures. I won't agree with my colleagues on the left hand side of the assembly who think we're all the same because we're not even gonna be, but to clarify maybe I wasn't quite clear, some of us are smarter, some of us are dumber, some are shorter, someone is nicer, someone is uglier, but there's a category in our society where everyone should be equal, and it's in front of the laws of this small but proud country. I believe we're all aware that this is not the case at this time. And I believe there is a consensus about it in the entire Croatian National Assembly and even on the right and on the left and on the centre. Croatia needs an independent and free state attorney's office which should be guaranteed by constitutional provisions. The DORH should be the main basis for maintaining a constitutional legal category in the Republic of Croatia which, in the court of many at the moment, is not. What we should think about are working conditions within the DORH that are not at the level that would meet all of our conditions and expectations that we could hear today during the debate. And judging by the information we have from the people who work in the DORH working in conditions that can't meet all of our expectations, and as we could hear our expectations today, they're really great with a natural understanding for them, right? It is expected that those who are the most responsible and most responsible for the stability of the constitutional order have no limitations in their actions and are expected to have the support of the Government and the Parliament in doing their job. Of course, this does not prevent them, or excuse them, from amnesting them from constructive criticism of questioning the mistakes they apparently have. Well, since I'm obviously running into a little bit of time, I'm gonna skip a little bit there, we've mentioned a lot of things. It must not be ignored that the fact that a colleague pointed out is that the main state attorney from July of this year has had the opportunity to get acquainted with the software procurement affair and the accusations put on the burden of Gabriela Žalac, to quote the state attorney, "There is a division of work in the DORH and impossible for the chief state attorney to see and see and have the subject before his control and to have full insight into it." This is not just any object, this is a key subject in corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I will look back on the shameful behaviour of Milorad Pupovac today after this pay phone and the Assembly benches of the National Assembly in which he mentions ethnic cleansing in Croatia. It is a shame that only Croatian sovereigns in the Croatian National Assembly rebelled over that statement, no one else talked about it I must say, it's a shame that Milorad Pupovac is taking himself.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75767	Thank you, dear fellow, you've exceeded your time. ... A fellow litre, please, let's all stick to the line. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, finally, on behalf of the rapporteur, the respected chief state attorney, Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75768	Thank you. I thank all of you who in your discussion today have made constructive proposals and criticisms, although I must admit that today was very little. As stated in the report and as I said in my opening statement, I am proud of the results of the work of the state's attorney's office as a whole in 2020. Here, among other things, is set up and a series of issues concerning working subjects, which can't be spoken of as you all know well because of the provisions of the CAP because those procedures that are at the stage of the reconnaissance and research are secret. Most of the time it's been spent on discrediting me as a person and a top state attorney. You're Parliamentarians in a much more favourable situation than I am because in the case of Software, the surveillance procedure isn't complete, and you can speculate and insinuate. Therefore, I repeat, as soon as the surveillance is completed, I will publish the results and make a decision on further action accordingly. Mr. Grmoja, you obviously have direct information from USKOK because it's not all true because the file wasn't delivered to the DORH, it's very large, but it was delivered only a report on the conduct and decision of the USKOK, which comes down to about a dozen pages. The file was not delivered. To talk about the influence of the executive authority in this case is, in my opinion, the complete end of the fact that two investigations have already been initiated against the same person and what would be the logic to protect her is now in this case. When we talk about the perception of the public that it is very low compared to the state's attorney's office and the judiciary, but the fact that we have to admit that public trust in public bodies is generally low. The claim that the DORH doesn't do anything, and corruption is at every turn, the question is what do arrests that happen every day prove? So who's running these arrests? Who does that on those cases? The issue of Agrokor, I repeat, was not questioned by the court or declared illegal by the court, and these claims were also incorrect during the debate. As I said, the state's attorney's office will, after I say so, clear the file again and expect that the art will be confirmed. MP Ahmetovic asked how many applications are rejected for political reasons. The answer is short, none. I will agree with MPs who say corruption is a serious problem for Croatian society, but don't expect from the state's attorney's office and put before the state's attorney's office and the USKOK task of the general supervisory body, we can't and we can't. Where are there bodies of discovery, police, state inspectorate, state audit? DORH is primarily a body of persecution. Of course, there's also a question of prevention and final social condemnation, so let's all answer ourselves together, what happened to the people who were convicted? Did they experience social condemnation? The answer to MPs Katarina Peovic, Kras, question Kras is not true that the file is in the drawer, the competent state's attorney's office is in June of '20. gave a warrant for the ongoing reconnaissance. As for the late mayor Bandic and his, let the institutions do their jobs, the state's attorney's office cannot act unless it receives information suggesting a suspicion of committing a crime. The state's attorney's office has no basis for acting, and I remind you that Bandic was not waiting to die because it was 2014. Bandic was arrested, released from custody, and the length of the proceedings is not a matter that the state's attorney's office can influence. War crimes in Croatia have special attention in the state's attorney's office. Of course, as time goes by, it's getting harder and harder to get proof. However, the delay in persecution over a certain period of time was the result of the European Court of Human Rights' stance that said there could be no trial in absentia. However, following a decision by the Constitutional Court that I mentioned and in my presentation of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, after they said there was no command responsibility, the state's attorney's office proposes a trial in absentia. What we found on the benches, please read on page 2, County State's Attorney's Office in Vukovar on December 24, 2002, filed charges against the JNA summit. We can't say the state's attorney's office isn't doing its job and it wasn't doing anything. Our Constitution is one or perhaps at least one of the few that the State's Attorney's Office determines as an independent and independent judicial body. At the same time, most of our citizens will say that Croatia is not a country of rule of law and that the state's attorney and judiciary is in general under the influence of the executive authority. Dr. Daliboro wrote in his scientific paper entitled Government of Rights and the Legal State European and Croatian tradition and contemporary challenges, let me quote. As factors affecting the functioning of legal institutions, the normative framework, the socially particularly political environment, and the legal culture of the participants of legal proceedings, as well as the legal culture of the entire political community can be singled out. These factors, in particular, are factors that are particularly legal culture can also be seen as elements of the long-term process that are conditioned not only by the direct environment but also by the previous legal and political tradition, which therefore also affects the functioning of modern legal and political systems. Through our history, the judiciary and the judiciary as a whole have been formally or in fact exposed to the influence of the executive and therefore this view of the judiciary is still present. Unfortunately, even today, infrequently, public individuals are dissuading the work of the judiciary and judicial officials, which not only affects public mistrust, raises the question of the legal system and the rule of law, but at the same time also exerts undue pressure on the judiciary. Whether Croatia will be a country of rule of law depends not only on justice but also on all of us and you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-26-0.u75769	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions. We will finish working for today, and we will continue working on Tuesday 30th at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, First Reading, P.Z. Number 225. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 17.27 p.m.
