ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27206	Comrades and colleagues, please take your seats now so we can approach the vote. Thank you to the government. You'll be back when we're done voting. ... No, no, we'll do the replicas after we're done. [[- Intruder Petyr, you don't understand.]] Before the vote begins, I would like to remind you that today we are celebrating St. Josipa, the protector of the Croatian homeland and at his meeting on 9 and 10 June 1687, the Croatian Parliament announced St. Joseph the protector of the then Croatian kingdom. The Protocol of the Croatian Parliament of that time in the Latin language states "St. Josip Krista Savior, the faithful defender, the Virgin Virgin Virgin, for the special protector of the Kingdom of Croatia in the National Assembly in 1687, of the ranks and stocks was unanimously chosen." As a permanent memory of that decision, a relief of St. Joseph, he's an academic sculptor of Shima Vulas. To all Josephs, to Joseph, to Jozam, to Jozam, and to all whose name is the excerpt of St. Josepha, I want a happy name. Also on behalf of all of you and all of us, I congratulate Dinama on one of the greatest successes of Croatian club football and wish them much happiness in the next competition. Now, like every other Friday, we're going to approach the vote in accordance with the article. Article 226(2) Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the 6th session agenda with 8 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is the point of the first proposed supplement, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021 with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 126. In accordance with Article 206(1), I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. Article 225(4) The Rules of Procedure, which have been written against the proposed items of the draft agenda, shall establish that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 6th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27403	The next club of MPs is the green-left block, and Rada Boric will speak to a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27404	Mr. Chairman. My colleagues. In the expectation of a new strategy in the fight against poverty and social exclusion in the Republic of Croatia as it has been since 2014-2020. It should be recalled that its objective was to ensure the conditions for achieving priorities in this fight against poverty in order to reduce inequalities in society and to prevent new categories of poor people. One would talk about today, this vulnerable group is rarely spoken of, and 8. Mart has passed, and that category lives on the edge of poverty or has already crossed that border, and these are pensioners. According to HZMO statistics for January 2021, there are 53.9% of pensioners in Croatia compared to 46.04% of pensioners, but should not be held just dry numbers because women have an average of 29 years and 6 days of internships, and men are 32 years and 12 days of internships. However, the average age of beneficiaries of pensions for women is 71 years, and in men 70 years, that difference would be understandable if we did not say that the difference between what was on the salary during their working life and in relation to pensions because of the fact that statistics do not take account of unpaid women's work. The average pension in December 2020 was 2.566 kuna, and Jasna Petrović from the Retirement Union calculated that the year of the pensioner's work experience is 167 plastic bottles, the calculation is interesting, so we get that the average male pension is 30% higher than women's pensions and amounts to women's pensions only 65 kuna a year. When it comes to social exclusion, it is enough to talk about the consequences of the pandemic for our fellow citizens of old age, the users of homes for older and powerless who were almost separated and as in prisons from the outside world. However, it is forgotten that in Croatia only 3% of the older than 65 years are located in homes and we do not know what is wrong with those who live alone. It is the most difficult for them, which are mostly women, often family pensioners, which is certainly less than the average pension, which is 2,100 kuna, which is 750 kuna less than the Croatian poverty line. Even 52% of female pensioners are in the poverty zone. Poverty, loneliness, alienation leads to further depression, despair, and suicide. Socially excluded older women are ashamed of their position, so it affects their isolation even more. Do you know of a home, a solitary facility? Pensioners in the EU according to '19 data. have an average 29% lower pension than male pensioners, and the birth gap, when it comes to pensions, is growing. In Croatia 2018, it reached as much as 29.7% and thus Croatia climbed to the 12th place among the worst. Of all 11 post-communist EU members, Croatia has come to the second worst place. Since 2030, women will not be entitled to early retirement under, as stated on the HZZO page, more favourable conditions. Since January of '30. Equalize conditions for women and men. Women have no right to early retirement under more favourable conditions today. They have just the right to something earlier than men to retire, and their pension is equal. What a more favourable pension, that for a significantly lower pension, and up to 30% may be made early in retirement, unpaid work in the household, and even more care for children, disabled and older family members should be valued differently and compensated by measures such as recognition of full pay during maternity or childcare and compensate for care for family members, provide them with appropriate status An existing pension harmonisation formula must be amended. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27405	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27469	The Honorable Vice President of HS, fellow MPs. Croatia has the worst demographic projection of member states for the 21st century. As early as 2016, when the current prime minister represented his government in this House of Commons, he promised publicly and before the witnesses the following, a family policy will be adopted to strengthen the family, implement policies that help coordinate work and family life, and focus on instruments that have proven to have a positive impact on demographic trends. Furthermore, demographic reconstruction, effective public administration, decentralisation of regional self-government and a solid and sustainable health system are only part of the programme then presented to the new government presented by Andrej Plenkovic in the Parliament. As far as demographic restoration in the programme is concerned, they have ruled as a goal to highlight the halting of the long-term natural decline of the population and the eviction of young and educated. Population policy measures will include changing the amount of compensation for the firstborn child, compensation for the other 6 months of maternity leave, changes in the rights and status of parent parents in the family with four and more children with the provision of minimum and raising existing standard of living. And where are we five years later today? In Croatia today, the largest group is over 75 years of age and older, at the same time only 774,817 children and young people up to 19 years of age and even 862,958 those aged 65 and over. The birth rate is constant and so in 2020. continued to shrink. About 36,000 children were born last year in Croatia according to preliminary data from DZS which was less than the previous years in which Natalie was also weak. At the same time as the number of deaths in 2020. According to DZS estimates, about 57,000 people, so we have almost twice as many deaths as newborns. When underlining the line, the natural increase in Croatia last year was the largest of nearly 21,000 people, which means that last year we lost the town of the size of the Križevci. But a recent census according to demographic estimates will show that Croatia probably fell to only 3.8 million people. At the same time the wave of eviction doesn't stop, so far we've moved about 830,000 people out. Scientific research has shown that the majority is not leaving because of poverty but because of injustice, corruption and the moral breakdown of society. No wonder demographics and economists have been talking about the demographic collapse of Croatia for years. A combination of negative growth and mass emigration has thrown Croatian demography into a gap that will be very difficult to get out of. And instead of having such a dramatic situation on the most intense alarm, that experts have called and engaged in the search for a solution, we don't actually have any real reforms in sight, especially those that would keep young people in Croatia, and neither encourage nor encourage young families to create offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27470	Thank you very much. The next Club representative of the Centre and GLAS in the name of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27544	Thank you, Chairman. This is a special honor to welcome to the assembly exclusively fellow MPs I specifically called you with the chairman, Your Honor. [[I guess I'm an agent, too?]] So good governance involves hearing the problems of those who point to problems, trying to understand these problems, and then solving them. The problem with Croatia is that very often there are no hearing problems to solve. I will, therefore, point out today the problems of entrepreneurs dealing with the occasional transport of passengers, given that the companies involved in this economic activity have achieved a drop in revenue and turnover from 90 to 98 and even 100% of their business. To the crown of the crisis, it is an economic branch that has operated independently and without any state subsidies, and a good part of the transport companies have invested significant funds in the reconstruction of its fleet in recent years. All the investments went from the company's capital but with the help of leasing houses and banks. Now, what happened was that because of the impasses in the business, for which these companies are not responsible, they were in a very unfavourable situation, given the claims of banks and Leasing houses. The nominal banks and Leasing houses decided to help but at a very high price in a way that the fees for the moratorium were derived from the payment plan and charged to them that percentage of interest was the share at the time of termination of work. According to current contracts, the largest number of companies and total interest will one time come for payment at the end of the moratorium and that means now in the spring of this year. And given the current epidemiological situation, given the further recommendations, avoiding the use of the bus and the van of the vehicle, given the slowness of the cleavage and the general uncertainty around the end of the pandemic, there is no way that these entrepreneurs could get out of the crisis and thus does not result in the suspension of their business as a whole. I point out again, it is an economic branch that has experienced a drop in traffic from 90 to 98% and some companies even up to 100%. Now why is it necessary to assist in the occasional transport of passengers? So because he was rescued among other things in all developed countries of Europe, Germany and Austria, they chose a model of traffic-saving compensation in 2019, and they compensated these entrepreneurs from 75 to 80% of the traffic achieved the same year, with the reason that the state is always cheaper to preserve existing private companies than to create new ones. On the other hand, it is important to help in the Republic of Croatia this sector because it is an economic branch that every country must have, and it is specific to us that this sector is highly linked to tourism that has a 20% share in our GDP. If we came into a situation where this entire branch, which has about 2,000 companies and employs about 20,000 employees, would certainly have a negative impact on the recovery of the overall economy. It is also important to take care of the way in which the loss of business of many companies will affect the age of the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia, as I said, most of them have invested in the new rolling stock by borrowing from banks and Leasing houses, the first thing that will go when these banks, lying houses come to collect is this particular rolling stock, the new buses will generally end up somewhere else in Europe because of the bad economic situation in the Republic of Europe and we will be left with only those old and exhausted, half-usable buses. It should also be borne in mind that the Republic of Croatia has invested significant funds on the education of driving staff still well sought in EU countries. Without waiting, I call on the government to come up with a model before it comes down to these companies, I think it's much easier than to initiate their recovery later, making sure that these are companies that have successfully filled the state budget until the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27545	Thank you. Thank you very much. So we're done putting out attitudes, so we'll go back to the previous point. We will now go to the meeting on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives and first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Goran Dodig, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27645	... Is that possible? [[Specially enabled.]] Okay. So, I want to talk to you on television, on this, on the subject of television and other traps. I'll write something short and I'll tell you again. Thomas Edison, inventor of a light bulb, a gramophone, a cinema, wrote in 1913 in a New York City... The books will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] were... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is possible that every branch of human knowledge will be taught with the help of movies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our system will completely change in 10 years. Somehow at the same time, when television gets to start changing people's lives, it's written again about George Orwell. Thanks to modern technologies, we found it in... The world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the beginning of television, programs, it serves only entertainment and satisfying the need to try something to create their own free time. We can say that television becomes a member of a household that has no strong influence, however, the content is not random. That offer significantly reduced our sensitivity and compassion. We have become slowly as they remind us of aggression. They called it aggression normal. The same case was said by a normal settlement. Propaganda and manipulation govern our lives. We became consumers overnight, we became consumers children. We ask ourselves, "Whom and what are they for?" "How much do we degrade our human dignity?" TV shows, e.g. Like the Farm, for example. Love in the country, life on the scale, naked truth, it's all we can hear tonight in television and that's unfortunately true. Also, we can watch Facebook, Youtube, Tick-Tok,... remains an inevitable part of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The following is connected to the Internet, constantly collected information that is useless and often false. ... on social networks, digitization is a process that changes us all, everything becomes, becomes digital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The world of cities, society, digital society, digital knowledge, digital medicine, business, digital economy, digital banking, entertainment, etc., etc. However, just a few conclusions. What's that, now I'm saying, that's what I was saying at the beginning of this part, and now I'm going to say something that I'm going to talk about in the future. What is a Croatian Parliament? The Croatian Parliament, can we think about it if it's a credential or something? We must continue to think about the Croatian Parliament. The councilman and his responsibility, we have to talk about it at all. His responsibility to the Parliament. Next, I'll talk next time than it's hate. What... The terror of layman's opinion, what's the information? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's perception? That's all the things we have to talk about because we're so much under the influence of this false information, of false hatred, and that's something we have to say. And I have to tell you this, one thing that Charles de Gaulle said, they know everything and nothing else. It's something we have to take care of because we'll talk about it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27646	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27713	The numbers are growing, so our main topic is justifiably some concern about the health threat and the response of the ruling to the current epidemiological situation. In this respect, as regards the latest announcements of potential future epidemiological measures, as well as sanctions for their non-compliance, the announcement of the penalization of the host who says those who have violated the measures will not have the right to compensation. Although logical at first, a valid question arises as to what is wanted to be said and whether the same is based on the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the caterers are not folk enemies. The caterers aren't the main conveyors of the crown. The caterers are workers who have the right to work, and the same right to work has been given to them by the current government, regardless of the epidemiological figures at the moment when they grew up again because it felt that the time had come for it to be politically opportunised, and a month earlier, it was not, that it had at least allowed the terraces of the catering facilities. Are there catering facilities that violate measures? They probably do. What do you do? Well, we've brought amendments to the Public Protection Act against infectious diseases, we've prescribed clear criminal sanctions, and we've got inspections on the ground to monitor the implementation of the measures. The same inspections earlier, when closed catering facilities learned, as we learned in the report from the measures, that surveillance was carried out over 131 117 facilities. Not only the catering but the facilities as such, and only 6 155 objects were issued, and 191 objects were punished. I would remind Minister Bozinovic, in his own time, and it was relatively recent when we talked about whether we should reopen the catering facilities, said that the hosts had followed measures, we would not have had such a situation. The numbers prove the opposite. Only 191 fines on 130 thousand surveyed facilities show that it was not a problem not holding measures or maybe Bozinovic wants to order something else, but then let him investigate it himself, that inspections do not do their job. We can't arbitrarily announce, we can't just blame the hosts for existing figures. Which would mean they wouldn't have the right to compensation, based on what? One open window which is either not a terrace. On the basis of one person who entered the catering facility and did not follow the measures. Will the ultimate punishment for the owner of the catering facility, regardless of whether he is familiar with non-compliance with the measures on the ground and does he or any of the guests not respect the measures, be the doping of a weak compensation anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, the caterers are not enemies of the state, work offices, work schools, work and terraces of catering facilities. All mentioned to some extent may be co-responsible for this epidemic, but it is certainly not only responsible, but whoever is responsible for most of the decisions concerning this epidemic and which occur and take place independently of numbers, independent and official science, because I will remind you, for entering Slovenia, 6 months is worth proof of the overrun crown, for entering Croatia for 3 months. Where one unique European science is. The decisions are political and sanctions for making those decisions should be political. Citizens are not here to punish or reward themselves by dropping measures, as the prime minister has announced. Responsibility should also be borne for the situation when it is bad, not just to boast about the security of the election campaign. And the responsibility of putting them on the back of the host, threatening them with unfulfilled punishments, and declaring them enemies of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u27714	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38129	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019 The applicant is the Commissioner for Information, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion "The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019" Who is in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It was voted by 129 MPs and MPs, 115 for, 5 abstentions and 9 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 118., the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1), that proposal of the law is adopted and 2) all objections and proposals will be made to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs, 124 for and 4 abstentions have voted, which means that the conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38434	Next statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, second reading. P.Z. No. 70. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by SDP MPs' club, MP Anka Mrak-Taritash, a Green-left bloc representative club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary Ivo Milatić, please. The first club is a representative club, an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38435	Thank you. So the amendment number, P.Z.E. No. 70/1 per article. 20 of the SDP's final bill of law is rejected. The reasons for the adoption of the amendments would lead to the non-compliance of the regulation resulting from the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38436	The SDP club, is there anyone who wants to be obvious? Then... we'll vote on the amendment. The next amendment is representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38437	That's right. That's amendment P.Z.E. No. 70/2 MPs Anka Mrak-Taritash in Art. 20th century 5 of the final draft law, and the amendment is rejected because the amendment does not alter the meaning or meaning of the proposed provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38438	Anke Mrak-Taritash is gone. We'll vote on that amendment. Amendment No. Two of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38439	That's right. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38440	Okay. The MP's gone, and then we'll vote on the amendment. Next up is Green-Left Block Representative Club, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38441	So Amendment No. 1 Club of representatives of the Green-Left Block on Art. 4 Laws on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons are rejected. Geothermal waters for energy purposes are public good and by their nature and purpose differs from water as a general good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38442	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38443	Thank you. So we stay on the amendment and we ask that it be voted on for the reason why it is actually fundamental and interests and values, after all, the constitutional Republic, so we ask that all water remain in the general good regime, that it is not transferred to the public good regime that can be in the ownership regime for reasons that, if we transfer water to the ownership regime systems, there can be excessive exploitation, so it is not a matter that water has always been defined as a general good and good of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and so also geothermal water according to the Water Act and for this reason we believe that the Law on Hydrocarbons should not derivate that provision of the Water Act rather than that we should remain here in the public goods regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38444	Are you asking for a vote? _Other Organiser Amendment No. Two of the same club. [[I said at the beginning, yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38445	Thank you. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It rejects, by reason, the law gives opportunities to use geothermal and hydrocarbon potential, where they exist as equally important energy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38446	Respectfully, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38447	Thank you. So the goal of this was to give this amendment the advantage of researching energy from renewable sources, so specifically geothermal potentials over hydrocarbons. Why? For the simple reason that, if we have chosen to support the Green Plan, then we are also entering the stage of exit from the exploitation of the use of hydrocarbons in the coming decades. In this respect, any research and any development potential from renewable sources should take precedence over hydrocarbons. For that reason we gave this kind of amendment as you know, in the proposal itself, the first bill that came into the first reading was quite the opposite, you were giving priority to the exploitation of hydrocarbons. You fixed this until the second reading, we thank you for that, but we think that we should move on if we want to be in line with the European Green Plan. Thank you. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38448	Okay. Amendment No. Three of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38449	Thank you. So that amendment applied to the article. 15 of the final proposal of the law. The same government refuses, and the justification, the acceptance of the amendments would lead to an increase in the uncertainty of the investment framework in the Republic of Croatia, reductions in the Doing Business ranking and energy uncertainty and instability, as well as an even greater dependence on imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38450	I don't know why you'd take the Doing Business ranking as a priority before achieving the climate plan goals, I really do, I don't know. As more relevant, not in 2021, but in 2030 and 2040, which we are talking about here, Doing Business when no one "to" any business, if it continues "business as usual", and that is what we continue with this. What we've been looking for is not radical at all, we've asked that the licenses for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons be issued, not for 20 or 30 years, but by the date 1.1.2040, so that we can review the situation, so that we can afford to break some contracts if, in the meantime, we decided that we don't want them or that they're harmful to us and that we don't put ourselves in a position to issue 30 years' permits in 2021 and, say, we can't break those contracts because we're going to expose ourselves to huge potential claims for investor damages. So, this proposal protects both the interests and the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia, but we are also giving it a clear signal that Croatia is on the road to phaseout from hydrocarbon exploitation by 2050. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38451	Thank you, thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38452	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 70th, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP MPs' club, MP Anka Mrak-Taritash and the Green-left bloc representatives' club. The amendment was made earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first is the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The second amendment by MP Anka Mrak-Taritash, or its first amendment, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The third amendment, i.e. the second amendment of MP Anka Mrak-Taritash, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the amendments now, there are three club representatives of the green-left block. The first amendment is not accepted by the Government. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second amendment of the same club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Three of the same club representatives, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor has this amendment received the required number of votes, so we move to a vote on the final draft amending and supplementing law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 129 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 11 abstentions, 42 against and thus passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. Now let's go to the last point we're going to vote on. It's a proposal for a candidate for the attorney general. Before I start just with the contents of this, let me tell you what the plan is. Now, like the last time we vote here, the vote is classified. After half an hour, we will continue to work, first free speeches, and after that, with discussion on the agenda point which was suspended because of the vote, and then during the work of the chairman, it will be counterpart Reiner, who will read the results of the election of the Ombudsman. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall determine as a rule the implementation of a secret vote in the case where the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Art shall apply. 260 to art. 267. I now ask three MPs to assist me in carrying out a secret vote. This is colleague Marija Jelkovac, colleague Domagoj Prica and colleague Krešimir Akcar. You can download the voting papers in front of the big hall, and the ballot box will be on the right side of this chair. I remind you that only one ballot can be voted by the MPs and only by the candidates listed on the ballot. A valid ballot is a ballot from which it is in a safe and unequivocal way to determine which candidate the MP voted for. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. So I'll see you later, from now on, in half an hour. My colleague Reiner is taking over the free speeches they're making. It's at 13.45 we'll start. It's 13,13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38563	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.46 HOURS]] I declare that Tena Simonović Einwalter has been elected attorney-general. I find that the Croatian Parliament has made a decision on the selection of the Advocate General. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u38645	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Meteorological Organisation on Legal Status and Action of the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organization in the Republic of Croatia, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 119. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. So I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs and all 128 voted for it, so the law was passed. Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2021 to-2024 The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal of the National Programme. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 124 MPs and MPs, 79 for, 37 abstentions, 8 against and thus adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2021-2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39961	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break because it's a very important law. A law that should have been passed long ago on civilian victims and that's what's most humane. However, in this law we have one problem which is huge, we do not have a registry of aggressors to the Republic of Croatia, so that this law allows those who were in aggression, who committed aggression, who raped, burned, slaughtered, and killed, in fact, in Croatia to commit so many crimes that they could exercise that right. So in Croatia, we don't have a defense register. This is not good if you politicize the victim. HDZ and SDSS cannot agree on this case in this way. I would ask you colleagues and colleagues not to support this law and to work for the civilian victims of the Homeland War. I also warned the same case in the Law on Croatian Defence before 3rd year. when I said it was inconclusive, that it was a false hope and the effects of this law were 500 Croatian defenders who gave their request did not exercise their right because they died. Thus in this case no Croatian, aggressor to Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has the right to exercise right through this law. And because of civilian casualties, it's very important to pass this law either yesterday or 20 years ago. and my first amendment to HS was to remove from the office of President Stipe Mesic the funds of 600,000 kunas that were accepted and assigned to the civilian victims of the Homeland War. There is no politicalisation and trade coalition on the victims of the Homeland War that shined on the aggressor and the Chetnik and none of them can achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39962	Thank you, colleague Bulj, time's up, break's approved. Comrade Sacic, here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39963	I also declare a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. We strongly oppose this content of the Bill on Civil Victims of the Homeland War because it is unmade, it is deeply harmful, it did not justify expectations of Croatian patriots, Croatian victims, in fact it enables in this form the abuse of the rights of honorary and innocent victims of the victims of the Homeland War at the expense of all our taxpayers, as we have argued it was not completed. 5, not finished Art. 9. Unfortunately, some non-functional things in our legal order, in particular the victims of crimes, war crimes, terrorism, want to be completely unsustainable in the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, and in no way is it mentioned that these are collateral victims and that in fact, the aggressor follower of the aggressive large-serb aggression of the Republic of Serbia should participate in this whole compensation of damage. It is also inadmissible if we were to adopt such a law, we would be terribly discriminatory against our victims, the true campers of Serbian concentration camps and many other victims of Croatian defenders, which we will not regretfully damage under the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39964	The apartment is approved. A colleague, Djakic, volunteered for a replica, or for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39965	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. He's been injured. In 238, a colleague of Sacic, as well as his colleague Bulj, speak of things that do not stand, insinuate and assume as well as in the Istanbul Convention, they do not know what the Memorial Centre and its archives clearly write about everyone who was an aggressor to the Republic of Croatia. They don't equally respect what the law says...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39966	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Djakić, colleague Djakic, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39967	who cannot exercise his rights and demean the letter of the Association of Civil Victims...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39968	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39969	...from the Homeland War, which he warns against planting stones...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39970	Comrade Djakić, please, two basics gave you a warning, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39971	Thank you very much, it's like your card.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39972	I congratulated you, but the rules are the rules. So that doesn't mean that I don't congratulate you on your nameday, but you've broken the Rules of Procedure because you've replicated and you haven't stuck to time, so please don't do it, and just turn yourself off. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39973	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Djakic, was injured by an article. 238, because he said a series of false things mentioning my name and that we... The civilian victims of the Homeland War. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, the first funds paid were in 2016 on my amendment when President Kuna's office was taken down as a new budget item. But here's the only truth that we don't have a registry of aggressors and you made it possible for those who sent hurricanes to Zagreb and wounded people and Croats and Serbian nationalities and Roma, not important, about Serbs and aggressors we're talking about here that you opened the door and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39974	Thank you very much, colleague Bulj, and you get a warning, this is a replica, no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39975	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In 238, Djakic said a few false things as well as in a late-night discussion about civilian war victims. It is clear and clear that the Croatian state does not have a list of all people who fought against the Republic of Croatia. There is no list of the prohibited law in the Croatian party of criminal SDS where Mr Hadzic was headed, and we do not have a list of anyone who... against Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u39976	Comrade Mlinarić, you are also being warned, you have misused this institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure and I am giving you a warning. Please just, I won't give you a warning, but lift the mask to keep it as straight as everyone else. We are now going to vote, so it is the first reading of the law, so all those who have observations will be able to participate in the debate and in the second part, in the second reading to make their comments. I am therefore voting on the following conclusion: First, a proposal for a Civil Victims Act from the Homeland War and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 131 MPs and MPs voted, 112 for, 14 abstentions and 5 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40480	Here, good morning. We're moving on today with work. We are going to make a statement on the amendments, the first statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 123. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the SDP Representatives' Club. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments, the Honorable Secretary of State, Allen Gospić. First Amendment, No. 1, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40481	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As regards amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, three of them are fully accepted, it is a matter of new technical amendments to the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40482	Okay. The second amendment is the SDP club. Amendment No. 1... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40483	Amendment No. 1 A SDP representative club is not accepted. An explanation, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, following a letter referred to in the amendment, adopted a new opinion on 18 February 2021, stating that the competent administrative authority of the county transport authority is an unsatisfactory authority for the transport of the city of Zagreb. When entering into a public service contract, it is necessary to respect the rights of transport acquired by means of licences or concessions on the date of entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40484	Respect, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40485	Thank you. So you see how interesting it is with Croatian institutions. So these are Croatian institutions that should be, for example, independent, which should be judged in the interest of the market and consumer protection rather than the monopolies that it sets. So the agency in question works in a way that forwards the memos as it suits someone. So their memo, i.e. Their decision of 7 January 2021 is absolutely contrary to the solution sent later to the Croatian Employers' Association. You know why? Because it works the way it fits. You know what's gonna happen here? And that will be your responsibility. It will happen that sometimes in the future someone will start disputes against the monopoly and the SDP and I will always advocate consumer protection and the protection of the end-user and not to raise the phone and work for the part-time interests of certain groups. So this is absolutely not consumer protection, this is not market protection. And I know why you're doing it and why you had an opinion before. So we're staying with what we've stated in our amendment, thank you, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40486	The vote, okay. Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40487	Amendment No. 2 SDP representatives clubs are also not accepted. Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 allows local and regional self-government units to decide whether they want to move on to a public service model themselves. On that basis, through this law, they are given a possibility, not a prescribed obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40488	Respect, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40489	Thank God. So, uh... Let's say the case as well as the air transport PSO, as the maritime transport PSO, as well as the passenger transport PSO. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come on, you know something, I'll put it this way. You know what fiscal capacities are at this time the units of the regional self-government in Croatia except for Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia and Primorje-Gorski, which have a little more resources. So it's absolutely impossible for regional self-government units to finance the PSO in passenger transport, as far as the bus is concerned, because it's impossible, they don't have the money for it. Therefore, if the State does not include as is included in co-financing of the transport of islanders, air transport to maintain certain that we say, the port frequency, if not included as it is included with half a billion kn for PSO, for Hž travellers, so this will not work for you. It won't work for any more reason. First of all, you didn't predict the money in the budget. It's number one. You're thinking of transferring from the Ministry of Education, probably the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, so that's gonna be insufficient for you because this counts for miles. What you should have done before the adoption of this law, from the technical assistance available to you, means you can use European funds, make a model of co-financing, public, liner, bus transport in Croatia. So by miles with stakeholders who would be involved with the state in the first place. That is why the transportation of high school students who want to transfer is mixed here, so the money that exists for the maintenance of transport and you know well if you move big cities, that unfortunately Croatia is dependent therefore on this type of transport. He also knows the vice president of the Parliament because he used to be mayor, right, Mr. Sanader? That's probably how it is. Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40490	Okay. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40491	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 123. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the SDP Representatives' Club. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted. There are three of them and they become an integral part of the final bill. And we have two amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government doesn't accept them, we have to vote. Who's for first? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on transport in road transport. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs, 77 for, 16 abstentions, 34 against and thus passed a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Proposal for a law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 121. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion ‘1. The proposal for that law and 2 shall be adopted. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 126 MPs and MPs voted, all favoured and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40556	We're going to the agenda. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019 The applicant shall be the Agency for the Protection of Competition under Article. 34. The competition law. We will conduct the debate on the basis of an article. The 44th century is 6th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Minister? Patrl, deputy president of the competition council, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40557	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable MPs, the Honorable MPs. Before you, respected representatives of the government, you have the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019. That's 22 already. The annual report submitted by AZTN to this high house. Our annual reports provide a detailed overview of the work of the agency, and in addition to statistical data, they always contain brief explanations of the key regulatory institutes that we apply and a brief description of the specific and significant subjects. I therefore make only the key emphasis on the application of AZTN regulations and activities in 2019. The AZTN is a legal person with public authority who independently and independently performs business within the scope of the demarcation and jurisdiction laid down by two laws, the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The AZTN powers in the application of the Competition Protection Act include the activities of the national general regulatory body responsible for the protection of competition in all markets in the Republic of Croatia. This means that in a part that is not subject to ex ante regulation, AZTN is also responsible for action in those markets that are supervised by sectoral regulators. From 7 December 2017 The power of this body is also extended to the implementation of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. In fact, with full application, the law only started on 1 April 2018, and this year is the full calendar year of the first year in which we apply the law in the Republic of Croatia. So both of these laws are kind of complementary. In the segment of the implementation of the Competition Protection Act, AZTN is responsible for establishing prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs who, for the purpose or effect, have a restriction on competition, and is then responsible for determining the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs on a given market and ultimately for ex-ante control of the permission to carry out the concentration of entrepreneurs. It is specific that the competition protection agency from 1 July 2013. In addition to national law, the European competition law applies, in particular, Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 101st and 102nd. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, based on the Council Regulation of the European Community No. 1st of 2003. where, in fact, the decentralisation of the European Commission’s affairs has taken place because it is part of its powers in application of Article. It shall be transmitted to the national authorities responsible for the protection of competition in 101 and 102. Therefore, national authorities may apply Art. 101nd and 102nd in situations where there has been an impact on up to 3 EU member states, and if this effect is wider then the cases remain with the European Commission. In the application of the Competition Protection Act, it is also interesting that we, in the case of legal gaps or doubts in the application of the rules, apply the criteria of the EU acquis in an appropriate way, to this we are authorised by law. These criteria are mainly based on the information provided by the European Commission in certain areas or on the criteria arising from the judgments of the General Court and of the European Court in that area. I mentioned that since 1.4.2018. is in force, in full application of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. In fact, for the first time in Croatia, this law has set up a very sensitive area before the adoption of a directive at EU level in this area. The aim of this law is to establish, protect and protect fair commercial practices that protect food supply chain participants. In particular, these rules lay down rules and a system of measures to prevent and impose unfair commercial practices and to determine unfair commercial practices in the law. So we can't, the agency can't act beyond what's prescribed as an unfair commercial practice by law. It is important that the practices of which traders, processors or buyers impose their significant negotiating power on their suppliers. The Agency is in 2019. A total of 772 cases, of which 710 in the field of competition and 62 in the area of unfair commercial practices, have been resolved by the implementation of both laws for which it is competent. We year by year record the growth of the number of items, so in 2019. This growth was 12.6% compared to the previous 2018. On 31 December 2019, the procedure was not completed in only 37 cases or less than 5% of the total number of cases. It is the subject matter in which the proceedings are being conducted, but by the end of the reporting year, legal conditions have not yet been met. 52 workers were employed at the agency on 31 December 2019. There's already two of us today. Today there's 50 of us. This number of 52 workers in 2019 includes 5 members of the Council who are, as you know, a body managing the work of the Agency and making decisions on all the general and individual AZTN acts and other than 5 members of the Council, there are also 47 professional staff who carry out the administrative, professional and administrative tasks necessary for the implementation of the rules laid down in AZTN's competence. It should be pointed out that, in each case, it is always a team which, depending on the complexity of the case, consists of at least one lawyer with a legal exam and 4 years of training after a judicial examination and one economist who is very often associated with them in his work and an IT specialist in the field of digital forensics. AZTN has no own income but is financed exclusively from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The planned resources in the state budget for 2019 amounted to 14 million 819 977 kn and the execution of expenditure was 96.45% compared to the plan. The Agency shall have the power to impose administrative and criminal measures in the event of an infringement of the two laws for which it is competent, and in 2019 it has issued a total of 4 million 119 500 kuna in respect of established infringements of the law. However, the agency not only imposes administrative and penalty measures which are actually fines but also imposes on entrepreneurs when it determines that the infringement has the power to impose measures, conditions and deadlines to remove injuries, which is very important. Since the most serious infringements of the competition rules, it should be pointed out that 2 cartels have been established in 2019, hence, horizontal agreements between competitors that they negotiated the prices of their services at a naturally higher level than the market and thus caused damage to consumers. In one cartel, key evidence has been obtained in an unannounced search of the business premises of the participants of the agreement by applying advanced forensic methods and equipment. The Agency has carried out an analysis of as many as 56 relevant markets in concrete procedures, of which 8 in cases of establishing prohibited agreements, 13 in cases of detecting abuse of the ruling position and 35 in cases of assessment of non-performing concentrations. In two cases, one in the area of establishing prohibited agreements and one in the area of determining the abuse of the ruling position, the procedure was concluded by the application of the Institute of Obligation by entrepreneurs. What does that mean? This means that in the early phase of the proceedings against which the Agency has initiated the procedure, the entrepreneur proposes to take on commitments in the form of measures, conditions and deadlines required to be implemented in a hasty manner to re-emerge the competition quickly. It is an institution that is often in the application of all the national authorities of the EU Member States and the European Commission itself because it contributes to the economics of the procedure and, on the other hand, competition is rapidly established without long-term procedures and agencies then does not impose a penalty and does not determine injury. As regards the concentration, the Agency did not establish any concentration prohibited in 2019, in 13 subjects the concentration could be assessed immediately in the so-called ‘procedure’. the first stage of the assessment, therefore only on the basis of the reports submitted, of the concentrations and data necessary to be delivered with these applications, because it was about concentrations which had no significant effect on competition. In two cases, the agency carried out deep legal economic analyses, i.e. initiated the procedure and evaluated the concentrations on the so-called ‘. the second level, and established that, after a fact-finding situation, however, concentrations are allowed. Furthermore, as part of its cooperation with the European Commission, the Agency has also had to monitor 473 notifications of concentrations submitted by entrepreneurs to the European Commission on the assessment, however, each national authority and so on, this agency, must consider each of these concentrations to see whether it has any effect or whether it has a significant impact on the domestic market. Other significant AZTN activities certainly fall under sectoral market research. It is therefore being carried out outside concrete procedures, in 2019 we did 3 specific sectoral market research, it is a market for small mixed goods mainly food, drinks and hygiene products for households, then the insurance market and the printing market. These sectoral research is conducted to better understand the structure and relations of individual markets. Therefore, it is about the rights and economic analyses of individual markets, the relationship to them, the way they operate, and the analysis of the regulatory framework for individual activities. The analysis of these markets has been carried out on the AZTN website. As regards judicial protection, they can only point out that in 2019, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia rejected all claims against the Agency's solution in the administrative dispute and confirmed the Agency's decisions in full. However, it should be borne in mind that AZTN, apart from implementing the rules itself, plays another very important role and this is about actively promoting the rights, policies and culture of competition. An extremely important tool, not the only one but one of the most important in this area, is the authority of the Agency to give expert opinions on draft laws and regulations or opinions on their compliance with competition protection regulations and other issues which may affect competition. The Agency thus delivers an opinion at the request of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the authorities of the state administration, the bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority. In the reporting year, in 2019, we gave 77 such opinions and indications. In the part of the implementation of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain during this reporting period, the Agency ended 9 administrative procedures in 2019 to determine the imposition of unfair commercial practices, set certain measures and imposed administrative criminal measures totalling 3 million 499 500 kuna. During 2019, we were also members of working groups to draft amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition, as well as members of the Committee for the Construction of Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain. Both of those laws passed the first reading, I mean the bill's proposal, passed the first reading at the Parliament. They must be in line with the European directives in the area and I believe that soon the final proposals of these laws will come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. AZTN is also very active on the international agenda, for example, AZTN experts successfully implemented a twing light project by the technical assistance agency to protect Montenegro's competition. The project was funded by the EU with 250 000 euros, the project lasted 8 months. and it is actually the first project in which the agency itself has therefore provided assistance to the other body. AZTN experts also actively participated in the work of the European Network of Competition Authorities, the international network of competition bodies and the OECD Competition Committee where we can say that we are already 5 years in the status of participants, therefore not observers but participants. What we particularly care about, is the transparency of our work, all our decisions, so all the solutions, all the opinions, all the judgments that have been made regarding the legality of the Agency's decisions, the statement of initiation and other statements on competition issues, brochures and annual reports, we publish all this on the Agency's website. We also issue an AZTN electronic bulletin info. In 2019 we received and resolved 9 requests for access to information, a report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2019 was also submitted to the Commissioner for Information and published on the Agency's website. Finally, it should be recalled that effective protection of competition is the basis of the market economy and the condition of strengthening it. However, to protect competition, it is not only enough to engage this institution. It is necessary to engage all state authorities in the creation of clear and enforceable rules of competition in support of these rules and to comply with these rules, and in particular to strengthen the culture of competition in society as a whole. In order for the Agency to successfully exercise its powers in future, which will certainly be increased by amending the two laws for which we are responsible, it is necessary to strengthen the position of this institution. That significant strengthening of national competition authorities is necessary, the European Commission itself has recognised. In fact, in one survey, the Commission found that 85% of the procedures in this area are carried out by exactly national authorities but that their position is generally unenviable, particularly in human and financial terms. Therefore, it has also adopted a directive... In addition, the government of a Member State commits itself to the urgent strengthening of its actions in charge of competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40558	Thank you. We've got a lot of replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40559	Thank you very much. Here I would agree with you that not only can the Competition Agency be the one to take care of the market and the fair market. However, I would ask you one question, if you will answer me, it is a matter of telecommunications, i.e. The telecommunications service, because Croatian citizens pay the most expensive telecommunications service in the EU already when we talk about the unity of the market, do you have any information about this and the monopoly on the market because we know that we have the most unskilled, unskilled services from the internet to everything and we pay the most expensive and would still ask one short question about the market itself, i.e. As for food products, how do you comment that in the pandemic the food chain was opened and our markets were closed? Is that according to the principle of fairness on the market?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40560	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40561	... /Snader raider: Microphone./ [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Yeah, there she is. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Stain Sanader: You did not turn it on.]] Well, thank you for your question, as far as telecommunications is concerned, it's true that we in Croatia only have two strong players, which is A1 and HT, unfortunately. A little more complex problems than why that is, why there's only A1 and HT. In fact, telecommunications services are, otherwise, the development of such entrepreneurs requires enormous financial resources and you know that at EU level, and everywhere in the world, there are mergers.../incomprehensible/... entrepreneurs dealing with telecommunications. In Croatia, we tried to do something, which is to make Optima the 3rd player, it was our wish when we gave conditional concentration approval and we hope that it will soon happen, that Optima will separate from HT and become the third market participant. As far as prices are concerned, Thank you. [[/Intruder: Time. You have to finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40562	The next replica is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40563	Thank you for your exhaustive report. We see that your work from year to year is becoming more and more extensive, but what is happening on the ground is that our producers, our companies, our entrepreneurs are in an increasingly subordinate position. If the Agency's work were to be linked to some general understanding of the competition, free competition, if it improved, then our position would be better, then our entrepreneurs would be in a better position. That, as we can see, is not happening. So my question to you who have experience in these unfair practices, as you say, is whether big countries, therefore rich countries of Europe were in the position of free market games when they progressed and when they grew and when state intervention policies such as nationalisation of strategic industries, industrial policies, picking winters strategies, competitive currency devaluations, indicative economic planning and other policies of national protectionism as well as [[Intruder: Time.]] import and tax tariffs. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40564	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40565	Well, look, there's a very difficult answer why our companies are in a worse position than these European companies. First of all, you know that until the 1990s we were in a completely different system than we are today, that there was this, a plan economy or what you would call it, and that the world of entrepreneurs in Croatia is much different than in the West, or in the West, conditionally speaking, in the EU. So, even the entrepreneurial spirit, if we're looking at it today, look at these, for example. new entrepreneurs, who are present in the new markets, as they succeed, not only in Croatia but succeed internationally. So, the reasons why our entrepreneurs are in a bad position, I mean, it should be one really detailed and comprehensive analysis. First of all, you were talking about... Not only is it not only a question of competition in a narrow sense but also of state support as it was given, etc. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Next...]] Here it is, I really need a comprehensive analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40566	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Patrol, you were talking about the Agency being able to monitor what is prescribed by law as an unfair commercial practice. I proposed to the Committee on Agriculture to introduce as an unfair commercial practice that the selling price of the product cannot be less than the cost of production and to punish predatory and dumped prices. You said that this would be suspicious of the aspect of competition i.e. to get into the price policy. I think that is not because the European Directive has allowed us to prescribe and further extend the spectrum of unfair commercial practices, and on the other hand, we have European observatorys for both milk and meat and for fruit and other agricultural products that clearly publish the product price and the prices on the market. Therefore, taking into account all this, I believe that our law could prescribe that unfair commercial practices of dumped and predatory prices and that the selling price of the product cannot be less than productive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40568	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40569	That's a nice idea, but it's hard to spend. It may be enforceable for some products, as you said there was a production price, a stock market or something, but not for all, therefore, which is the cost of production, in order to determine in procedures, which is the price of the production of a product, e.g. Some entrepreneurs, Germany, Italy, France, Spain or elsewhere, so very difficult to implement, and otherwise, I have to, I do, I mean, we're in charge of implementing two laws. The Directive says that there can be stricter provisions in countries, however, this one article in the directive exists in which it says it must not be contrary to such a provision, although stricter, must not be contrary to rules on the protection of competition. Therefore, the regulation of sales prices of which the trader will sell his product further is in the aspect of the rules on the protection of competition, as I said then, very speculatively, except for the part already prescribed by this Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40570	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40571	Thank you very much, Mr. Patrol. Looking at the structure, incomes and expenditures of the Agency, it is evident that in 2018 and 2019 you were 52 employees, now you say that even less, 50. The report states that the outflow of personnel, of these 52 people who were in 2019, you are mostly highly educated, two are SS, two are higher, the rest are VSS, the master's degree, the judicial exams, and now that you're dividing those less than 10 million kunas for wages, turns out to be gross and 16 thousand kuna, means net below 10 thousand kuna. How do you motivate people to come to work at the Agency at all, or to stay and ask the Government to increase budgets for your Agency because the more employees, the more unfair commercial practices are discovered and more, obviously punishments if they are determined and then more money in the budget, so I guess that should be in our government's interest, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40572	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40573	Yes, the big problem is the drain of personnel, unfortunately, we have on one hand a good opportunity to hire good staff, let's say, so conditionally because really people have an interest in coming to work at the agency, but wages are very low, and work is very complex. And after a while, it also takes a lot of time for education when it comes to work at the agency because it's a specific type of work and everyone who comes to work at the agency, no matter where they work, it takes about a year to practically be independent in work and we have a problem that after a while, after a few years those young people who are really educated and excellent in their work, really commend them here publicly all, that they have offers of a lot of... offers from private entrepreneurs and unfortunately they're leaving us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's always a problem, and we always have to educate new staff, and then when you really have a great man who can work on jobs, he's going to be four, five, ten years later, now we've got a colleague gone after ten years of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40574	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40575	Your Honor. Patrlj, thank you for your comprehensive report and congratulations on your work. The Committee on Agriculture notes the need for stronger public information on the Agency's activities and on your work procedures. The same problem was a few years ago the topic in this home. In what way do we interest the media, we know that interest is very small, modest, in which way, does through some round tables, do any action to make the media run around these topics and to promote the agency more and to hear more about the procedures it implements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40576	I think that this year, or this 2 years we've spent in the pandemic, has done a lot of damage to the whole promotion of anything and thus the right to competition and the right to ban unfair commercial practices. We very often held workshops, conferences, round tables, within chambers, called us both HUP and HGK, and then really came a lot of entrepreneurs and lawyers, it was transmitted in the media, but that part of the activity was unfortunately this year, so I wouldn't say that it stopped completely but it couldn't have simply been different. But what we continue to do on our web pages is really publish everything, and when we start the process and when we end the process and I think it's media, it's just a matter of how much that news is on the cover, right, it's just in the morning and then it's off, here comes something else that's more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40577	The next replica is Commissioner Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40578	Thank you. Among the Agency's competences is to give an opinion on the proposals of the laws to the Government and the Parliament, as well as sectoral research and analysis of the regulatory framework for individual activities. I believe you're familiar with the situation in which teleopers for the time being A1 and very likely Telecom will shut down the broadcast of N1 television programs. And all on the basis of a provision that prevents vertical integration, so those who are media content distributors cannot also be owners of TV or radio programmes. I wonder if the Government has sent you a request for an indication of the Law on Electronic Media which has not changed in this provision since 2013 and what is your personal opinion regarding vertical integration in the field of electronic media?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40579	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40580	So I believe that this provision has been considered because, in other countries, there are no such provisions, but every country protects, it must protect pluralism in its country, so it is not something that our jurisdiction is exclusive and these situations that you mention with N1 and A1 and their own now can only read now in the media, and we are following it, but we have not yet received any initiative, let's say from the N1 that we would have directed towards us. Therefore, the N1 may be contacted by the Agency if it considers it necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40581	The next replica is distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40582	Dear rapporteur, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I'd like to congratulate you, the figures you've brought yourself, 772 cases, a 12.6% growth compared to the previous year, over 4 million fines imposed give you enough security to do a very high-quality job. What I want to commend you on is also that you are highly appreciated in Brussels, wherever I also had the opportunity to reflect on your work at the highest level. You have just said in your presentation that the number of employees has fallen, we know that the law on changes and the Law on Competition and the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices follows, we know that we will increase your size of work, my question is also how will you strengthen your capacities and, as we see, you have the support on both the left and right of the assembly to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40583	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40584	So as for increasing the scope of the work in the work of the amending and supplementing law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, there the government recognized the need to strengthen us financially and we will get the possibility of hiring another 6 employees in this area which is really necessary because the thresholds and income censorships for the application of this law are coming down so that the scope will be much bigger than before and we hope that we will somehow cover that number for at least the first year, well that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40585	The next replica, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40586	Your Honor, I have one of these logical questions. I agree with a colleague before me who said it was good for both left and right to understand what you're doing and that left and right, I mean from left to right, all of us in the hall think that your work is extremely important. But what is the point of the debate on your 2019 report today in 2021? I have one simple question for you, how many EU directives have we adopted as a state in the past, practically two and a few years, that you have installed in your work in which you are not here today.../incomprehensible/... you have not reported anything or can not be reported because you are talking about 2019? We should discuss today the problems that de facto happened in your work, especially in the past year which was exceptional, I will say interesting. If not to use some ugly words to act and work under Covid. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40587	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40588	Well, we sent this report to HS in July 2020, but you know that, in addition to Covid, it was, that our President of the Council who defended this report from the parliamentary committees, or represented this Report before the parliamentary committees, unfortunately passed away on December 29, 2020, and I don't know why we didn't come to the agenda, but the situation is such that we are now discussing the 2019 Report, but if it can comfort you, we will be very soon, or you will discuss the 2020 report very quickly, because in a new law that should take effect we have to submit the report for the past year until 30.6. So by 30.6. in the Croatian Parliament will be the Agency's report for the '20s. Mr. Crescent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40589	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40590	Thank you. Dearly, in the section of the Report on applications for the assessment of the eligibility of the purpose of the exercise of control, the concentration of entrepreneurs, you mention the situation with the sugar market in Croatia. Please state that European sugar producers have responded in the pre-quota period by increasing sugar-based area, while the Croatian sugar industry reacted completely the opposite, the price of sugar-tailed tail has been reduced, which logically resulted in a decrease in planted area under the tail and, of course, the stagnation of sugar production from the sugar-tailed tail. Why is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40591	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40592	Well, that's not mine, I can't answer you because it's not in my jurisdiction, I really don't know why everything was different in Croatia but in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40593	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40594	Your Honor, in your presentation you mentioned that we have a lot of statistics in your report. It is not at all questionable whether your Agency is needed, whether the work of this Agency is necessary, whether the work of that Agency is extremely important for our country, for our entrepreneurs, however, I would ask you to tell me on which site in the Report we have information on received applications, how many of these reports are anonymous, how many have been signed, how many of these reports have been rejected, how many jobs on these reports have been initiated. There's no such thing as that. If we look further, when we wanted to get some data to calculate some performance percentages, we should have taken 3 reports, I'll explain to you later in the debate what we had to do to get some numbers because these numbers just don't exist. There's one plate that says that we have 70, 772 items solved by 52 people. So if there's two men on the team, they've solved 30 cases a year, two of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40595	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40596	Statistics are interesting, but it doesn't really show the state of things. So what you just said, we have 70, 772 items, so I don't know, divide into 50 people, so that's, you have to know the complexity of the subject that the Agency is leading. So no national body of any Member State has more than 30, 40 significant decisions. Why is that? Because the proceedings are terribly complex, because they require the protection of the rights to defend the parties, let's say we have to issue, unlike other bodies, we have to issue before a solution, a notice of preliminaryly established facts in the party's proceedings, we have to give them the right to an oral debate that many bodies do not have, we have to give her the right to.../incomprehensible/... the main debate, so this procedure is long-term and cannot be seen as such statistics. The initiatives we have received you have because at the end of the report there is a list of solutions, we reject the initiative of the applicant, there is a list of solutions in which we have rejected initiatives and it is clearly visible [[Intruder: Time.]] when we rejected, when we made the decision. [[Intruder: Next...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40597	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40598	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Party. Well, it's obvious that a large part of your activity in 2019 was precisely objects related to horizontal mergers or forbidden horizontal agreements between entrepreneurs and what is significant for that to actually achieve much higher prices and to be paid much higher, then, services, rather than products if they occur. It has been found that you have identified 2 such items, however, many more cases have been processed, so over 25 cases. In your opinion, is this frequency of agreements increasing or still suppressing your activities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40599	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40600	Well, the cartel is, as you know, very hard to find out. These two were discovered because we had information from users of services in one, and in the other, entrepreneurs themselves boasted that they agreed on the price in the media because, that's what I'm saying, this awareness in Croatia is very low on the ban on price deals. And sometimes entrepreneurs don't understand why we're even taking action against them. Therefore, this awareness of entrepreneurs or the awareness of all stakeholders in society should be even more significant and our actual engagement in promoting the culture of this competition should indeed be even greater. And with the new tools that I hope to give us a new law, we may be able to detect cartels more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40601	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40602	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear representatives of the Agency, State Secretary, here in your report, state that among the priorities of the AZTN in the next period there will be the removal of severe restrictions on competition such as the conclusion of a forbidden agreement or cartel, as well as the identification and abuse of the ruling position, so all that is provided for by Article. 101, 102. Treaty on the Functioning of the Union, or... The law on the protection of competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we have recently adopted here in this house new amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition, which introduced a number of legal institutes, certain newspapers and new powers to AZTN, and I am therefore interested in whether, in your opinion, these new tools will actually be given to the agency by means of an even more effective protection of competition? And secondly, here I would, there were some words about the public of your work, just commend the public of your work, you on your web pages really publish all the decisions, all the solutions and all the opinions, I think all the stakeholders that are dealing with so far protecting the competition can learn a lot from your example right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40603	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40604	So I really hope that the new tools will help us to do better than we've had before, but also as far as the cartel's application is concerned, there's a real conscience for entrepreneurs to report such actions to the authorities because without it, I think the practice has shown in all the countries and the European Commission itself that it's very difficult to detect a secret cartel somewhere, which is why it's secret, they keep it secret. When detection occurs, when something is already in place, or someone is in a worse position, so it's damaged in some way, and then he goes to report to the body, here. I'm saying, that consciousness is terribly important in law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40605	Next replica, distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40606	Dearly, I would like to point out in particular the problem of farmers facing agricultural and food products entering the Croatian market at a price below the cost of production. The impression is that we are standing in place on this issue and that the agency does not actually carry out strong enough procedures to solve the problem in favour of farmers. Here's to convincing me that's not the case. What steps are you taking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40607	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40608	Well, I assure you, it is not because we are implementing the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the way that unfair commercial practices are prescribed in that law. Therefore, it is tax-based that unfair commercial practices are listed in that law. It is not mentioned in that law as an unfair commercial practice of selling the product below the cost of production but as an unfair commercial practice of selling the product below the purchase price plus VAT. So it is, and there are even three exceptions, and then from that provision legally prescribed, but we can't go any further because we don't have the law simply prescribed such a provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40609	Next replica, the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40610	It is certainly of great importance to protect competition. What I'm particularly interested in is today being said that fines of 4 million kn are imposed, I wonder how much of that money is, so these fines are charged if you can say in percentage? Also, since we're at least one of our new representatives, we haven't seen these reports in years ago, in case of early years' default, what is the amount of time in which these penalties are charged? And I'm also very interested in protecting the competition, we're of course looking at how many shares in the Croatian market, someone can have 10%, 20%, 30%, but the question now is how much is someone in a region, in a town where maybe that share is 60, 70, 80% or more? How can we fight a concentration that would destroy competition at regional level within Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40611	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40612	So when the agency receives the item, let's say about the concentrations in the area, of course it looks not only at the market of the Republic of Croatia but also looks at the narrow markets, depending on, the first initial step in general for the assessment of the concentration or for any procedure in the competition agency is to establish the relevant market. There is a special regulation on how to identify the relevant market published in the National Journal, you can find it on our websites and it describes in more detail how the relevant market is determined. Therefore, the local aspect is also taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40613	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40614	Thank you for your report, you mentioned in the report and in your preliminary reports the dimension of international cooperation, primarily from the country of the southeast of Europe, which is logical but also with other countries like China. I would like to ask you to elaborate a little bit more on what the agency is doing to protect the freedom of the Croatian market, from some of the players who are coming or trying to take over some company on our market and come from countries where there is no free market or where there is no functioning free market and therefore enter our market perhaps not so much with some commercial logic but with some political one, so as not to say geopolitical motivation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40615	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40616	If you think of the takeovers in terms of concentrations by entrepreneurs from third countries or some countries where there are no, where competition is not effective, the agency cannot, it assesses the report of the concentration, so the entrepreneur who wants to sell his share, his own company decides who his potential partner will be and then the agency just assesses that this concentration from the aspect of competition whether it has a significant effect on the Croatian market or not. That's our job. Our job is not to choose who will take over a company in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40617	Thank you, Mrs. Patrol, you're free to go. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40618	I'll take advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I understand I'm taking the risk that I'm going to get a warning, I'm only interested in the other 20 seconds when she's been answering my questions about how much the fines are charged, if I can just get that answer. That part must have been forgotten by accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40619	You'll get an answer later through the hearing, and now you'll get a notice on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to a club debate, excuse me before he's got maybe a committee reporter, wants to take a word on it? The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At its 6th session held on 11 November 2020, Mrs Patrlj, State Secretary, Representatives and Representatives of the Committee on Agriculture discussed the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019. The debate focused on unfair market practices in the food supply chain and was asked about the reasons for the small number of complaints of unfair commercial practices and the total amount of penalties imposed. It points out the importance of protecting applicants of unfair commercial practices and informing the public about the procedures being carried out. It has been warned that the upcoming amendments to the law should also cover live animals with the aim of protecting cattle animals in rare cases of unfair commercial practices. The importance of reducing the income censorship to initiate the procedures for the establishment of unfair commercial practices is highlighted in order to sanction and unfair commercial practices which are not subject to the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, which are within the jurisdiction of the Agency. It is noted that unfair practices related to quality standards, calibration, dumped prices, non-purchase block or purchase of products at prices that do not comply with the product class. The European Unfair Commercial Practices Directive gives us the possibility of regulation and stricter rules than those set out in the Directive, and it is stated that it should be used with the aim of protecting Croatian agricultural producers. In view of the above, it is also noted that the importance of cooperation and exchange of information between the State Inspectorate and the Competition Protection Agency is important. The report submitted answers to questions said that small entrepreneurs pay within the deadlines, and large ones are mainly waiting for the power of the solution. All solutions of the agency are published on the Agency's web portal. Regarding inter-resorship co-operation and co-operation with competent ministries, he stressed that the agency is co-operating with the Ministry of Agriculture, and so far has been working with the State Inspectorate on only two occasions. Irregularities related to calibration are difficult to establish, and as far as regulation of product quality standards is concerned, he stressed that they could be prescribed and believed that this would also be in line with EU rules. In addition to the problem of dumped prices, he stressed that it is prohibited to sell the product below the lowest price in the supply chain. In view of the existence of imbalances between traders, buyers and processors, the law was passed in order to sanction unfair commercial practices and the same had to be determined by income censorship, but this could be amended as the amendments to the law were initiated. The Agency does not have the possibility of unannounced controls and investigations, and this should also be amended by law. As the most positive effect of the law, he pointed out liquidity insurance, compliance with payment deadlines and speeding up payments. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next conclusion. The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019 is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40621	Thank you. We have a request for a break. Here's a distinguished representative of the Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40622	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to request a 10-minute break on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club in order to point out once again the damage that the Competition Protection Agency has done to the entire milk production sector in Croatia. So in 2012, when we had 65,000 OPGs that were involved in the production of milk because of the cartel they were in, and today the combined buyers disappeared over 50,000. This means at least 50,000, and I would say 100,000 social cases in Croatia. The producers then applied to the agency in 2012 and asked for help but how AZTN helped them say the figure that they were left with 4,000 today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40623	Thank you. I declare a break from 10 minutes to 10 hours and 50. It's 10:00.39. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.51 HOURS]] No, then I'm opening the debate. We're going to the clubs, the first Club of Representatives of the Most, Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40625	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Competition Agency, colleagues and colleagues, here we all know that there is no free market in Croatia but is mostly a monopoly. That's what we know, of course it's not just you, it's all the institutions. We can list more examples. I'm one through a replica, you've partially responded. This means monopolising telecommunications, favouring teleoperators so that in the single market of the Republic of Croatia within the meaning of competition we have the most expensive services in the EU and the wider, and the biggest profit of the teleoperator is right in the Republic of Croatia. Teleopers don't behave like they do in countries where they come from. We have a terriblely bad Internet connection, but the teleoperators are not investing huge money in the Republic of Croatia. This occurred during the privatisation when we put the infrastructure into our hands, our telecommunications infrastructure, the vessel cookhouse of security, one very important, telecommunications is very important and its security infrastructure, national security. We put that in foreign hands, once a robbery in privatisation because you older people paid for it, our parents on our land, our surfaces, but it's in the hands of strangers, and they're acting so arrogantly that today they're setting up their buildings from the base stations wherever they think of it. And that's the worst thing in the competition market, that we call for directives, and I would like the Agency of Competition to be a little stronger, which is why the citizens of the Republic pay the most expensive services to teleopers, and they have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. The biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia is above 40% of Croatian telecoms, i.e. Deute Telekom, while in the EU an average gain is around 20% by country, we are talking about profit means we are talking about margins. So this is a very important issue, both from the aspect of competition and from the aspect of national security. Of course it can't just be the agency. We are talking here about the entire system of this telecommunication, however, in Croatia the Misetic family has a greater influence, Misetic has more influence and telecommunications in the Croatian government than I am Andrej Plenkovic and Minister, ministers in charge of this issue because when we look at how many base stations are placed in the Republic of Croatia in a way that I can't put them in countries where they come from. So it is now not an opposition to the development of technology, digital technology, but on the contrary in Croatia teleopers must behave as in countries where they come from. But if our people in the privatisation, in the robbery, handed over the telecommunications system and the full infrastructure paid by the people with their money, then I see no reason why the biggest margin in the Republic of Croatia and the most expensive service to our citizens on the EU market is even wider. We have to go and in terms of food chains means food chains. the trade chains that have been granted. I asked here when the Covid crisis began then there was a measure that the trade chains could work and inside was entered into the closed window, and where our farmers domestic products sold on the markets were banned from selling them, in markets where there was an open space where the virus was more difficult to operate, logically I.../incomprehensible/... but the healthy logical virus this is more difficult to spread in the open space than in the closed areas of the trade chains. So that was one direct bargain on the big market. In the food production, a colleague mentioned here, and here she mentioned only dairy production. The me on the market was destroyed, targeted. Milking simply with 55, 60,000 OPGs we have burned to a very small number because we are also not equal to our producers on the market. Also in the production of food products, if we are talking about meat, we have poor meat quality coming from other countries, which is fed by soybeans, for example. Porcine, a soybean treated with glyphosate which is dangerous and it is, for example, sold on shelves by pig neck 10 kuna, and our manufacturer can't produce domestic, healthy pigs that would eat healthy, simply he's in a much more difficult position than those who feed with harmful human health food. So we have one problem with what's all this is all about, and that's where it pleases foreigners, these foreign companies. And I think that the whole system, not only the agency that brought out the data here, these data say that something more is done, a little more punishment, a matter of infrastructure and human resources within you, but for the serious protection of this competition regardless of the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in Croatia is the domestic production literally crushed by, we have terrible potential and resources. Here I can think of, here we will now go to important potentials where Croatia on the market could compete and where something should be public good regardless of why we are a free market. For example, our sources lead to drinking. The sources of drinking water are now on stock exchanges such as oil, and.../incomprehensible/... on stock exchanges appeared, we gave a source of Cetina in 2015, then the government of Zoran Milanovic gave the source of Cetina at 30 years per month 5,000 kuna. Who has two cows who hold and have one calf spend more. One O.P.G., one family economy. So we have resources and potentials that we have to protect as a public good, and from that we can mean, so here you can see at the gas stations that a liter of water or even less, is more expensive than oil. And that's what they're earning means someone who's either on the side or has been favored by the government, 37 seconds has been debated about such an important resource that's been put into foreign hands. We've got all kinds of things like that. I mean, I can't blame all of you, right, I mean, you can't carry the burden of a cycle of systems, of all ministries, of government decisions, of an complex problem where solutions are therefore of good. We have this in agriculture, this is one of the biggest problems with demographic decline. Our village is extinct because of unfair trade practices, it's extinct. So we have both literally Slavonia and the Dalmatian Zagora, so here we can talk about the wood industry, we have forests, areas of forest from Slavonia to Like, to Gorski kotar where our potentials and resources are essentially not used on the market as they should but sold as cheap in Italy as balvana, trees of high quality. There you make extra value of wood this product and they come back here at a much more expensive price. In fact, we have become like a trading chain of bad products from the EU. We are on the EU's tail as far as competition is concerned. What measures do you take? We're parliamentary agents who are responsible. We can't, neither of us wash our hands if we don't fight hard. Of course an individual can't do anything. 151 is a parliamentary representative, but in order to protect Croatia from demographic downturn mainly in rural areas, I can't believe that in my Sinj, Cetinsko end so many sources, so much potential of hydropower, so much drinking water potential that it's reduced that someone gives us 5,000 kuna to produce, to fill, to charge water and to earn huge profits, and from that the people have nothing. I think it's wrong to set legislation to suit, that vermin within the ministries and import lobbys and all those who do not work in the interest of the law, in the interest of the people of the law, in the interest of the man, every law must be in the interest of the man above all to remain in the area where his family is. However, bad policies, the competition is corrupt, the competition is cartel, the competition is mafia in the Republic of Croatia and therefore we have this much demographic downturn and outflow. What do you do? We can all make decisions together on behalf of the individual, not on behalf of multinational companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40626	The next debate is on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Anja Shimprag's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40627	Dear Vice President, honourable rapporteurs, state secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have been discussing the topics closely related to the Competition Protection Agency recently. So we recently discussed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition and Amendments and additions to the Law on the ban on unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. That's when I said, and here I'm going to repeat once again that I think the agency is on a kind of turning point for a number of reasons. If I noticed correctly about the agency, very little was written in the media or was not written at all, it was only after a more serious economic operator was put in the process before the agency. This kind of media treatment can be interpreted in duplicate. It is commendable and commendable when a state agency exists and operates for about a quarter of a century, and there is no stain in its work and people say no tails are drawn. Probably because the primary goal is to act preventively and educationally, not repressively. However, such treatment can also be interpreted in such a way that the Agency and its work are not given sufficient importance even though the Agency’s tasks and activities, directly or indirectly, concern all of us and our participation in the market. The Agency protects competition primarily through the creation of benefits for consumers and equal conditions for all market entrepreneurs who, acting in accordance with existing rules and competing in the market, contribute to the overall development of the economy by means of quality, price and innovation of their products and services. One of the most important tasks is to promote a culture of competition, to detect restrictions on competition, and to be contained in laws and regulations that raise obstacles to the free and fair competition of entrepreneurs on the market. As one of the most active state agencies in 2019, the total solved 772 cases in the field of competition and prohibited unfair commercial practices, or 12.6% more than 2018. And for established infringements of the law in those areas, she has imposed administrative criminal measures of more than 4 million kuna. That amount is not small, but what is a problem in practice is the fact that the agency does not have its own income, but the financing of work and activities stems exclusively from the funds provided in the state budget because these administrative fees and administrative criminal measures are listed, the revenues of the state budget itself. Objects that may affect us citizens most are prohibited from horizontal agreements, so-called horizontal agreements. cartels which are also considered the most serious form of infringement of the rules in the protection of competition. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The existence of 2 cartels in which more competitors negotiated the prices of their services with each other and thus damaged the users of services by agreeing more prices than those of the market. The Agency has obtained decisive evidence in these cases by means of information from the service user or through unannounced searches using information forensic data processing. In addition to the fact that a healthy market atmosphere concerns all of us, one example of the 2019 cartel, 14 auto-schools from the Split area have concluded an agreement on increasing the training prices of motor vehicle management candidates B, which has been applied since 1 January 2018. Forensic intelligence agencies from one of the auto-school representatives' cell phones copied a copy of 14 auto-schools into 2 WhatsApp groups. By forming these groups of auto-schools, they agreed and held new meetings, and they supported each other and encouraged them to insist on applying new prices and not giving up pressure from candidates and media for themselves to lower prices. All auto-schools against which new higher prices have been initiated have started to apply with the above mentioned date. In order to create an illusion of competition, the awareness of the illegality of such an auto-school has not been published at the same time but within just a few days. Accordingly, the prices were not identical but there was a slight difference between the prices of certain car schools. Car schools for all of these have been punished with a total of 465,000 kunas. The quality of the agency's work also speaks of the following fact. The Agency's decisions are not permitted to appeal, but the dissatisfied party may appeal to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and in 2019, the High Administrative Court made such 5 decisions which rejected the prosecutor's claim and fully confirmed the Agency's decisions. In order to ensure that activities in the field of competition protection and the prohibition of unfair commercial practices continue to be successful, it is necessary that the Agency retains or strengthens its independence and independence in the application of the rules, and that it has sufficient financial and human capacities at its disposal for that purpose. There are new problems, because financial aspects and human resources are potentially linked. Financially, there was a slight increase, but only slightly more than 15 million kuna is absolutely insufficient. 52 employees in 2019 and the employment of 6 new persons who will engage with former employees in unfair commercial practices due to new legislation remains insufficient. Still a major problem is the outflow of expert personnel. Since it is highly educated employees with specific competences and experience which are rare and are therefore highly sought on the labour market. Most agency employees make up a highly educated staff, somewhere around 23% of employees have completed postgraduate studies, 75% have high or higher professional equipment, while the medium professional staff has only 2 employees. When financial and personnel sub-optimisation is taken into account in a numerical sense, we will all agree that the agency definitely provides results beyond expectations. The government of the Republic of Croatia will issue a public invitation to propose candidates for president and council members, and this moment will undoubtedly be important for further development of the agency and competition in the Republic of Croatia, especially when new legislation is taken into account in this area. The process of building domestic competition law, as well as the process of harmonising domestic and European competition rights, is not complete and will likely take some time. It is a permanent process, not only at legislative but also at practical level. All of us must work together to promote a culture of fair competition policy. As a result, the SDSS Club will support the Agency's work on the protection of competition for 2019. with hope and desire for further progress in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40628	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40629	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today's market competition could be discussed for days, and we would probably find controversial cases on the market on a daily basis, and so all these reports that come to our agency probably come to fertile soil and the agency is probably doing everything they can to make these reports. The Competition Protection Agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the Competition Protection Act and shall also be responsible for implementing the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain as from 7 December 2017. I would like to remind you that recently there has been a talk here about the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Chain and that there has been added some more information that was important to us and for this report, or for coming up with some data that was important to us for some analysis, so we also took one piece of data for our analysis from the data that was in the description of this law. Namely, in the report... for 2019 No indication of how many applications were received or how many proceedings were initiated under these applications in 2019. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have information that it is from the area of prohibited unfair commercial practices in 2019. 62 items solved. Since the report does not have any data on how many cases were launched in 2019 or how many were launched in 2018. and completed in 2019. Based on the 2019 report We can't calculate the percentage of case resolution per year. We don't even have the data on how many employees worked on each case or how long, so we can't even figure out what efficiency is. Let us return a little bit to the law to remind you that, in the light of the law, the information contained in the Agency's report since the application of the law on 1 April 2018 is listed until the end of 2019. During that period, 223 cases were launched, of which 188 had irregular status, and 36 had administrative status. During 2019, 9 cases were resolved, 7 solutions were issued because three cases were merged into one and found to be imposed by the parties using significant objecting force on their suppliers of unfair commercial practice within the meaning of the law and penalties were imposed on some 3.5 million kuna. Now, to come up with as many relevant data and indicators related to the implementation of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in 2019. We also had to reach out to the 2018 AZTN report. and for the simple reason why, and in the 2019 report, there is no indication whether only 7 solutions for cases in which suppliers have been imposed unfair commercial practices on those 36 open administrative cases since 1 April 2018, which would mean that 19% or one part of those cases has been resolved during 2019. However, in the 2018 report, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We also came to the wall because it's in the 2018 report. only the information indicated that by 31 December, only 82 items were solved which were not further divided into administrative and irregular so we could not know how many administrative resolutions were actually solved in 2018. After that, to get some data, we tried to get some other way, which is that we took the information listed in the 2019 report. where 22 open cases remained with 31.12.2019, so we concluded that during 2018, 2019. a total of 14 administrative cases of which 5 in 2018 and 9 in 2019 ended. So it actually follows that of the 31 administrative objects that entered in 2019, completed 9 procedures which are 29%, and the deadline in which the other administrative procedures will be completed is unknown. Here, I tried this brief demonstration of our efforts to obtain relevant data or even more than one single data, and I wanted to draw attention to the lack of data in the report on the lack of table displays, and also to the lack of graphic representation of AZTN's performance. And the question is, is there something and why is there something hiding? In order to have a complete picture of the implementation of this law, I request that data be delivered on the work of the Agency for 2020. for the area of the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices, further please the information within which the remaining administrative procedures will be completed or whether they may be completed, and this is important to us today because we are discussing the 2019 report, we know that today is 2021, and we already have news that will have a significant impact on the resolution of more unsolved cases if there are still any. The second thing is really good, unlike the data on the results of the work, the data on the internal structure, the data on employees are excellently presented, processed and displayed, we have... indicators, we have graphic indicators, we have graphics, analysis, gender equality, etc., unlike HAMAG-BIRCRO where we have failed to obtain information after 15 questions as to how many people have been employed in HAMAG-BRCRO, how many have been employed for what years. At least here we have data on how many are working and we know what the structure is. And when we talk about human resources, we need to look a little bit at the basis of the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices, whose implementation of the Agency is in charge where it says that it is to be implemented in the projections of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the '22s, '23. and '24. the budget needs to be increased at the position of the Agency Administration and Management, means the administration and management of a million and 500 thousand kuna per year for the equipment of jobs and additional employment of new 6 employees in the Agency. I said since we don't have the right data, we can't figure out what employment is, we know that there are eight employees in this section, that the 8 employees solved in 2019. 62 items, and what the president said before, since we don't know what the complexity of the case is, we don't know what the efficiency of these employees is. However, we consider that this is not the time for new employment in the administration, and we have already highlighted this in the debate when it was on the agenda to amend and supplement the law that I mentioned earlier. Since the opposition's attitude here is not too much to listen to, it's obvious that some things need to be repeated more times, so it might finally be heard about what our attitudes are. The pandemic is not yet nearly stopped, health care is collapsed, the economy is on its knees, agriculture is never on the lower branches, education, research and culture that we are not talking about. Furthermore, according to the data you presented to us, the law doesn't really break too often according to the data you gave, actually in a year and 9 months we only have 223 items. Again, I don't know how many applications we have, we don't even know how many applications were anonymous, how many were with the signature. It is additionally worrying that the agency itself is saying that it does not have much communication with entrepreneurs, so we cannot know whether the reduced number of applications or the number of cases is due to the fact that entrepreneurs are no longer talking to the agency or because the agency is not doing something. Perhaps the problem with the climate of mistrust is that we as an opposition see things wrong again, or because of the slowness of solving cases, entrepreneurs simply lose the will to apply, and in that case the previous conclusion of a rare violation of the law is wrong, but the conclusion of ineffectiveness is imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40630	The next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40631	Dear, the representative of the Competition Agency pointed out in her opening statement that free competition is the cornerstone of economic prosperity, which I absolutely agree with. And economic prosperity is the foundation of a successful state as well as the basis of the quality of our citizens' living standards. This is therefore an area of particular importance. In its work so far, the Competition Agency has created solid foundations to carry out its tasks as controllers and regulators in this area, but a number of issues are raised. Has the agency done enough, has the HS done enough by adopting a legislative framework and have we as a state done enough to create the conditions of free competition for the market, as it exists in other EU countries? I will continue that topic that I have opened in my opening line, so from the example of the A1 teleoperate procedure whose business practice and decisions, according to all, will soon follow the Croatian Telecom, it is clear that in one activity that is not only economic but also has a significant role in social and political life in the Republic of Croatia, the market is not free in the same way and in the same way as in the rest of Europe. And what exactly is it that you let me explain briefly. So, the public fact is that N1 television is a media that is very critical of the government and often asks exactly those questions that the ruling would like to avoid, and this is particularly important at a time just before any election. The N1 channel is distributed through the network of A1 and HT operators, and the owner of this channel as well as some others is the United Group, which has announced in time that it will invest EUR 230 million in telecommunications infrastructure in the coming years, of which EUR 130 million in investments in the 5G network and EUR 100 million in the optical network. The announcement of such large infrastructure investments was a clear signal that this United Group intends to disrupt the existing duel on the telecom market currently held in Croatia by HT owned by Deutsche Telekom and A1 owned by Austria Telekom. And that would actually be good news for users of telecommunications services, so for consumers, for us citizens, since the new player on the market has to offer some combination of lower prices and better quality services. Therefore, the opening of the possibility of this happening would be of interest among other things to the agency whose report we are discussing here today. However, HT and A1 operators are concerned with unwanted competition which can negatively affect their business balance by taking away part of their market cookie. And there's actually a reason why United Group channels, including N1 TV, could soon fall out of these teleopers' offers. One solution would be that the United Group itself can distribute its own channels, but this makes it difficult, at this point, to disable the Law on Electronic Media which prohibits such a kind of vertical market integration. And what does this have to do with this report now? Well, he's got big ones. Therefore, in the opening statement of the Agency's representatives, it noted that the Agency is directly implementing the European Directives, which is good. It also conducts sectoral analyses for certain activities, which is also good, and the most important and important activity in my opinion is that it can give opinions on the proposals of the law and, as we had the opportunity to hear 77 such opinions, was given in 2019. However, I believe that competition must be protected when it is in immediate danger, when there is a current problem, so timely and strong because when the water passes under the bridge then we can only resolve the adverse consequences, rather than establish the foundation of good practice. The basis of good practice would suggest that in this problem I say has an impact on the upcoming local elections, on consumer rights and also on public rights to be timely informed, I think that the agency should make its contribution and importance regardless of what the Law on Electronic Media is not directly in the jurisdiction and in the implementation of this agency, but competition definitely is. We know from the media that it has already been appealed to the Minister of Culture to make appropriate amendments to this law that would therefore bring our legislation into line with European legislation. And I see a little problem here too, and I wonder again what I have already said is whether the agency has done enough over the past period, whether the council has done enough and whether we as a state have done enough because the current Law on Electronic Media in this provision that makes it impossible for this vertical integration, is therefore a provision that makes it impossible for audiovisual or radio transmission operators to be also broadcasters of television and radio or media service providers to have an identical and identical provision since the first law of 2003, so the first law of 2003. The content of the provision is the same. This law was amended in 2007, 2008 and 2009, this provision remained unchanged. Then in 2009, we adopted a new Law on Electronic Media, but the content of this provision remained the same. So again, in 2011, 2013, we are changing it again, but only in a way that we can rewrite this provision again and before we give a second number of provisions under which this rule is laid down. The question is, are we protecting one of these two teleopers here, and is there any background reason why that is? I will return to the proposing's initial thesis, so free competition is the cornerstone of economic prosperity, and in this case, free competition has great social and political significance. And since the Law on Electronic Media is now on the government, the first reading has passed in phase two, I expect from the Competition Agency not to wait for the call of one TV channel, nor the owner of a group that would have a legitimate interest here, and only that its conclusion, its opinion and its analysis, calling for relevant provisions from other Member States' legislation at EU level because, in response to that initial replica here, the present representative of the Competition Agency stressed that it is aware that this area is not regulated in other Member States. So, if we are the only exception here, the question is whether there is a Government, whether someone in the government has a special interest in keeping this provision locked up in a way that is harmful to competition, to our consumers, to our public, and thus the economy and political life as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40632	Next debate of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40633	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the Competition Protection Agency, respected colleagues and colleagues, the report before us shows that a large part of the activities of the Competition Protection Agency during 2019 concerned cases relating to the establishment of prohibited horizontal agreements between entrepreneurs, therefore cartels, are prohibited from agreements between entrepreneurs, decisions of the Association of Entrepreneurs and the concerted action of entrepreneurs who, as a result, have a distortion of competition. The conclusion of the prohibited agreements constitutes the most serious violation of competition protection rules. I would add only 2 prohibited horizontal agreements or cartels in which more competitors negotiated the prices of their services to each other and thus damaged users of services by negotiating more prices than market prices. The decision-making evidence in AZTN cases came with information from the service user or through unannounced search of forensic data processing. Since 2017 AZTN has also been responsible for implementing the law on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain. This law in the Republic of Croatia is for the first time, but still an inadequate area of banning unfair commercial practices and food supply chains. However, the primary objective of the Law on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain is not to punish but to establish a positive business atmosphere and respect fair commercial practices. He's interesting, so-called. a joint venture as a form of contractual association in a joint business venture, 2 or more independent entrepreneurs where a concentration is also present if they act more permanently as an independent economic operator. Concentrations of entrepreneurs are not aprioras unwanted. As a rule, it is a regular and regular process of consolidation and restructuring of entrepreneurs, as well as of entire industries, in response to changes in concrete relevant markets, with a view to achieving savings and synergies that will allow more efficient business for newly realised economic operators. The task of the Competition Protection Agency is to assess whether the production process described, i.e. the positive effects of the planned implementation of the concentration, will prevail over its negative effects on competition, above all, because of the reduction of the number of market competitors and the resultant strengthening of the market power of the new economic operator's lower level of competition if it is about horizontal concentrations due to the increased risk of price or market share agreements which could lead to a reduction of consumer benefits in the form of price growth, drop in quality, lack of investment in innovation and the like. Therefore, the assessment of the intention to carry out control of the concentration of entrepreneurs is one of the most important tasks of AZTN we will agree. The implementation of the concentration can bring benefits to consumers, to competition and to the economy as a whole, for example through better exploitation of production, trade and other resources and greater flexibility in price structure, lower prices, better quality, greater choice of products and services. The rapporteur also mentioned the situation with the sugar market in the Republic of Croatia in the part of the report on the application for the authorisation assessment of the purpose of carrying out the control of the concentration of entrepreneurs. Reforms carried out in the EU from 2000 to 2012 resulted in a reduction in the number of sugars by almost 60%. Since Croatia was not a member of the EU at the time, European sugar producers whose restructuring was largely reconciled from the EU's common funds have thus gained a significant and lasting advantage over Croatian producers. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that European producers are in the rules of fully vertically integrated systems which ownershiply connect sugar beet producers and sugar producers, which allows them to lower the price of basic raw materials and achieve profits on the final product, while on the EU market continuously carrying out rounding of entrepreneurs and making higher yields on the surface and trying to reach higher sugar content than in Croatia, the attempt, if any, of the ownership of Croatian sugar producers and sugar tails proved to be unsuccessful. Sectoral research becomes a source of data for opinions and recommendations submitted by AZTN to the Government of the Government of the State Administration, units of local and regional (regional) self-government in order to remove barriers to market access resulting from an inadequate regulatory framework. As the AZTN results of sectoral research are publicly published, it thus becomes an inseparable part of AZTN’s activities related to the promotion of competition or the strengthening of competition culture. But what are we witnessing these days? In recent days, it has been increasingly reported, for example, that on markets and in some trade chains, apples are sold which they are sure to come from imports, but the label says that they are from Croatian suppliers who buy them, package and deliver them, and as a country of origin, Croatia is listed. The most important thing is the apple of the Jonagold variety, which the supplier did not even bother to repack it into another packaging, not by quality, nor by calibration, which is already visible in the first view are not the characteristics of the Croatian product or packaging and the fruitcakes are convinced that it is precisely in imported apples. It is also alarming that controversial apples are advertised and sold even under the trademarks of certain merchants who point out that this is a Croatian product. In order to properly inform the public, the protection of domestic domestic production of domestic market integrity would be good if competent institutions including AZTN checked the doubts of incorrect declaration through comprehensive and deeper control of where the subject of the apple came from, where it was stored, to whom it was placed in retail and with what declaration. A parallel similar thing occurs when you suspect domestic milk. For some dairy traders, let us remind them that in recent months consumers have been offered imported cheap milk with Croatian tags, so chess shops, dice, etc. although at national level there is only milk mark from Croatian farms. We understand that all EU members last year used a measure to store milk and milk products for at least 300,000 tonnes, but it seems now that these surpluses are coming to Croatia under dumped prices and are sold even with the label of the Croatian chess shop, which is unacceptable. I understand how the 2019 report is in front of us. but I sincerely hope that AZTN also monitors these types of unfair commercial practices that happen to us daily and destroy domestic food production, but also prevents the survival of our farmers and evicts people from rural areas or from all over Croatia, and I repeat, the primary objective of the Law on the unfair trade practices in the food supply chain is not to punish but to establish a positive business atmosphere and respect fair commercial practices. The report can read how unfair commercial practices can be reported to farmers because of possible cancellation of the colour contract. It also points to the need for stronger public information on the procedures to be carried out. The lack of the law is also because the provisions of the Law on the unfair trade practices in the food supply chain do not cover live animals, and what brings cattle to an unfavourable position and are then unable to achieve legal protection in cases of unfair commercial practices, and most often it is not about the non-payment of their delivered products or animals. In addition to the criteria of the income classes for the launch of the procedures for the establishment of unfair costing practices, it is therefore 100 million kuna for traders and 50 million kuna for processors to face an additional problem, which is that agricultural producers in business with traders and processors whose income censorship is lower can hardly protect their interest. This is why it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the State Inspectorate and the AZTN in order to sanction as many unfair commercial practices as possible through the synchronised action between these two institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40634	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honorary Representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40635	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the agency, the ministry. Let me look back at the report, I think it's okay once again, to express my deep regret that there is not a longtime agency director present with us today, Mr. Mladen Cerovac, who unfortunately died in December as you heard yourself, so that I can express my regret for both colleagues and colleagues who come from the agency and his family. As far as I was able to get to know him during these five, six parliamentary years, it was an exceptional expert on our competition rights and on the man who created the agency since 1997, and he has managed its council since 2013. And thank him for that, and we need to show him respect and we're sorry that's the way it is, that's life. As far as the report itself is concerned, I wouldn't be repeating myself too much about the data, if I think that more or less are all and the representatives of the proposings and the vast majority of colleagues and colleagues have provided certain data from the AZTN report itself for 2019. However, what is important is to emphasise that the clear trend of increasing resolved cases in the field of competition and prohibited unfair commercial practices is compared to 2018. 12.6%, that administrative and penalty measures were imposed in total amounting to slightly more than 4 million kuna per 782 subject-tested case. Taking into account all segments of business and activities that are very broadly and qualitatively explained in the report, the Agency's work can be assessed as positive, and what can be read from the statistics of the resolved cases of urgency in the cooperation and validation of decisions of the Agency from the position of the High Administrative Court in administrative disputes, as well as in bilateral and multilateral activities of the Agency both domestic and foreign. There may be important to highlight a valuable project funded by the EU's 250,000-euro position, where our legal and economic experts from our agency have provided assistance to the Montenegrin agency by introducing and resolving their cases, so that there is also an assessment of the competences of ours, ours, our professions and people who work hard and responsibly. It is also important to say that the Agency acts transparently, through its decisions educationally and preventively. Of course it's a focus, and I've seen here and through the discussion of other clubs, on solving cartel problems. Also a large part of the agency, the work of the agency from the area in 2019. He was referring to these particulars, two cartels were found to exist, whether it exists anymore or not, and I would not dare comment on it from the position of giving some political evaluations, so that possible carding requires solid evidence to be sanctioned, and we are aware that a large part of the sector is in some way consolidated, restructured and sought in some joint cooperation and merger and agreement simply its competitiveness on the market. However, in order for the agency to act in this respect, it may be more or more present on the economic market, it must be additionally capacitated with the profession and competences and people who are equally specific, legal, digital and economic knowledge, and such certainly need more in the agency, and such people on the market should simply be paid and this should be clearly and openly said here. It's impossible to provide such a profession and people like that for the money they can get for pay in any government service, especially in this agency. A few words about the European action of the agency. In order to comply with European legislation, both the laws which are the basis of the Agency's activities, and this is the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, are currently in the process of amending and preparing for a second reading. The Agency has actively participated and supported the adoption of a European ECN+ Directive which also allows for the extension of powers such as the search for business premises, requests for the supply of information, mandatory talks with non-participating persons, provisional measures, and a number of other powers that will strengthen the Agency and that the transposition of this Directive will allow its stronger appearance on the market and stronger regulation that it must definitely, in the time ahead, implement and further act. But what's important here is that we all have to be aware together that no law unfortunately can solve the area of competitiveness, it's actually impossible. And if we want our product to be competitive, we need to do so with regulation, with instruments to protect our market, indeed to push the promotion of domestic production and to push it to make it through clear media campaigns, through a clear performance of those who are relevant in all this together inform consumers that by buying Croatian products we can first and most qualitatively help our production fully. Well, I think that's more or less what matters. I say it is necessary to stay away from some flat-rate and political evaluations of matter that should first and foremost be discussed by a top-notch and competitive profession. The HDZ Club will, of course, support the Annual Report on the Agency's work on the protection of competition for 2019. And thank you all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40636	We move to an individual debate, the first debate of MP Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40637	Thank you very much. He would not talk much about the report, according to the representatives of the Competition Agency. Here, once again in an individual debate, it would appear once again. He confirmed to the facts that in Croatia competition is literally in the bandages or does not exist. There are no questions, no decisions taken at the level of no agency, I think I'll repeat, there's no agency report on what it is, and there are some developments in the report, but that's not enough. In Croatia, competition is based as in the very high institution club Slovenska 9, so that there are also promotional policies there in clubs which were both encouraging policies and policies of setting up jobs, policies of destroying competition, competitiveness and has led to the fact that we do not have any competition on the market today, we do not have any competition at all when we speak, and I can list a few more things that I did not list when I spoke on behalf of the club. Here, for example. As far as energy is concerned, renewable sources, here we know about the Krsh-Paden case where the huge money of 2 billion kuna on wind power plants will cost Croatian citizens, it will pay for the energy policy itself. And as far as I'm concerned, so is telecommunications. Croatian citizens pay the most expensive telecommunications services in the EU and Europe, with the highest profits being made by teleopers in the EU. And that's why Croatia is first in corruption, and citizens pay the most expensive services. The same thing about the competition and the question, here's the bank, we'll see the banks. How is it possible that in Slovenia, not so far away, now in the covid crisis we have a moratorium on loans and interest while we do not have in the Republic of Slovenia, he gave this a fair European market, a moratorium to our farmers, our farmers? Di cartels and pests are within the lobby on agriculture, especially when we talk about agriculture we know that this was supposed to be one demographic measure of the survival of people in rural areas, so we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. Irregular incentive policy, import lobbys that import weaker meat quality, i.e. meat that is unhealthy, an example we talk about meat, and we can talk about other products. We have even this government now and it's pushing the seed bill where it's going to collect production, this production to our OPGs where it has to be produced, where it has to be exactly how seed is prescribed to be on the market that will collect production, reduce the competitiveness of our farmers. And as far as the Covid measure is concerned, I will mention once more whether the competition is to close markets where they are sold, here I am in Sinj, for example. We have a towel, several women very few and people, families selling their products. And in the Covid crisis at the beginning, the markets are closed where our grandmothers sell with their O.P.G. products, and the trade chains remain open. Instead of promoting self-sufficiency, about being self-sufficient, to model raw fields, to see that we are not self-sufficient, this Covid crisis has revealed this and in this case we see that it was again for the trade chains where the greater danger of crossing the virus is than in open markets. For all the questions he can move on here I mentioned the sources of drinking water. Sources of drinking water, Cetina, river Cetina i.e. The source Cetina was awarded in concession for 5,000 kuna per month for 3 years, at 30 years, to foreign legal persons. For the 5,000 kuna source of Cetina, we haven't even protected it publicly. And so in all segments. It is not the competition agency's fault, only the competition agency, but the ones who are sitting here, who are blind, and mainly the pests within Croatian governments and institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40638	We have two replicas. She is the first representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40639	Dear counterpart Bulj, therefore, says the agency does not intend to penalise itself, but intends to create better conditions or support competition. I'm going to take a concrete example. Like the Coca-Cola case. The Agency published the measures, conditions and deadlines proposed by Coca-Cola on its website. No public invitation was received, and then the measures taken by Coca-Cola were taken to self-punish herself because it was about to force the market to buy all its products if it was taken Coke. So we have on the one hand the situation that not only some producers there but also renowned world producers, a similar case has been repeated in Slovenia, exploiting a disturbance on the market to impose their products. On the other hand, we do not have any information from the rest of the company on the rules of competition to intervene. Then they can pay their own fines. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40640	Well, the irregularities of the market, i.e. Targeted disorder here you have now mentioned Coca-Cole, but otherwise in all colleagues segments, I am the most hurt by telecommunications examples or agriculture where our domestic products cannot end up competitively on the shelves. It is intended to be imported, of course, because we have become a trade chain, Croatia has become a foreign trade chain, not to run smart policies that will promote domestic production. And in that mess, for example. Here are the teleoperators that I mentioned that we have the most expensive, the Croatian citizens in the EU have the most expensive services from teleoperators because in the government we have the Mišetic Dynasty which directly affects Croatian citizens paying for the most expensive Internet and services and the highest profits have teleopers in the Republic of Croatia. It is an unsettled market and the influence of high officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40641	The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40642	Col. Bulj, as you interpret the fact that the protection of domestic products is not a priority in this country, it is preferable to some form of trade chains that have more than a questionable qualitative offer of everything that we can find on the shelves. This fact was particularly visible last year at a time and this year at the time of the coronary virus epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40643	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40644	Thank you very much. I'd just say that I personally gave a number of laws in the past term, and they're still in the process of protecting domestic production. In order to protect agricultural land and finally to model agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, food is the foundation of a single society and this is very important for the sake of national security. We see that in all crises, not only the crowns but also the earthquake crisis and everything that we're simply not organized, we're not self-sufficient and it creates big problems. It's not big problems, it's saying that the system doesn't work in crisis situations or any kind of threat. And agriculture and food production must be the base, and we have all the conditions. We have, we are a tourist destination, we have all the conditions, but we have 700,000 hectares of agricultural land unprocessed and in 2023 they will be able to buy foreign real and natural persons, while in Hungary the Croats can't do it. Is that equality and equality? Of course not. I have put these laws in the process and I hope that they will be back here in the assembly soon and that they will vote in this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40645	Next individual debate, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40646	Dear Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motions, the respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, this report has a lot of pages, spent a lot of paper, but from this report we didn't know what we were supposed to find out in the assembly. The Croatian Parliament is not the police to control whether a ministry or some agency is working fairly or not. The Croatian Parliament is a political home where laws are passed and, based on this report, we should be able to read whether the laws adopted in this area produced or not. Is the agency we started doing the job we see from what's going on on in the market? My colleague before me talked about N1 problems, or television, which today is probably not going to be able to look at the Republic of Croatia, because we have two, two operators who, if they don't want to miss it, that service or that content that if a citizen said they want to buy, they want to watch it then they won't look at it. And there's a question why didn't the agency notice something like that? Why didn't she notice any problems in solving digital services? Why didn't she notice any problems in solving postal services? I am a few times on the board, this is not Croatia's mail, here goes those other postal service providers or delivery that operate on the Croatian market. Not once that I've learned from the report have you examined any of them. And they are the key that our businessmen can deliver their goods or their products to the end of the consumer, which is what has now been seen in this Covid crisis in particular. If you didn't do it in what way did you do your favor? You're talking about the law on unfair commercial practice. All right. You punished a few of them who misbehaved. Did you punish the state? What does the state do to drug distributors or that drug distributors do to those who try to enter this market in agreement with the state do not consider unfair trade practices? The fact that no small drug distributor can enter the market because it cannot withstand the non-payment conditions of 360 days. That's why we passed the law that everything should be paid in 60 days only the state doesn't respect it. You're talking about the concentration of the entrepreneur. What you did, you managed to find out a couple of taxi associations that they agreed on a price. Ha, on the other hand, we have laws on the chamber and we support the establishment of chambers. It's kind of collapsing with each other. When we establish a chamber, that chamber should protect individuals. You say you have an object growth. We don't see how much growth you have, how much growth you have solved, and that's relatively small growth, but the question is, do you have that because there are more people who are damaged or because it's a bad law or because you might not be given instruments to solve these problems that are happening? And what I think is crucial in every report whether the ministries, whether states or states are changing the law when it comes to the fact that the one to whom this law applies says whether this law is good or if it notices things that need to be changed, then it says what these things are to be changed, and it is not in this report, and we are aware that we are going to change the law that concerns this. There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40647	Thank you. You have several replicas. The first is the respected colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40648	I think the example of Croatian mail is a good example. I'm also interested, for example, in some things, in some things, in the fact that it was given to the agency in the first place or who was complaining, so the agency was being supervised. Some things, say, market research are also a matter of the agency's choosing to focus on it. As far as Croatian mail is concerned, we have had an incredible situation now around Christmas holidays that has completely collapsed Croatia's mail due to the inability to deal with the crisis and the fact that people need more of its services. What's scandalous is that the fact was paid by Croatian citizens. Therefore, because of the fact that mail was not delivered to you in time and that you had to pick it up at the mail offices, you had to pay a concrete financial payment, and none of the competent institutions in this state did anything to protect the rights of consumers of Croatian citizens who are in the last place in the EU anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40649	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40650	Dear colleagues here agree fully with you, but this does not only apply to mail, Croatian mail as a company, but also to all companies dealing with the delivery of shipments to the Republic of Croatia. With these others, Croatian citizens or Croatian companies have even bigger problems than Croatian mail. The fact that we as a society have not recognized the problems that will arise in Covid, or that our economy has failed to agree on such a colloquism, is actually a problem for us here who have not adjusted the moment's laws. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40651	Another replica, respected colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40652	Here, colleague, I will be very personally quite critical of this report and according to what we heard in the debate here from the legislator, but I have to react to this repeated thesis that in the subordinate position in which N1 was found, this agency should react. So the subordinate position in which the television house was located is not the result of some unfair or unfair competition, but rather of a free market. Therefore, a subordinate position in which some good journalists will unfortunately find themselves, journalists agree absolutely there is precisely the result of a free competition or a fight for the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40653	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40654	So I can partly agree with you that this is part of the fight for the market you just have to ask yourself one question asked by colleague Oreskovic, whether someone is responsible for not hearing N1 at this time whether someone is responding that at this point a certain content cannot be bought and that is what the problem is. If that's just a question of competition that someone has set a price that was too high for someone or thinks they can find the same content at a more acceptable price, then I'll agree with you. But if one day it is possible not to provide Croatian citizens with the social information they want to buy, and we are witnessing the size of Sher N1 in the information program then that is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40655	And we're going to the third line, colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Coliar Brumnic's speech was already here, and these are dumped prices or where the agency reacts these are dumped prices which are less than the purchase prices. But what about production prices or production costs? So we have an example of sugar and we know what the cost of production is, let it be for the needs of this 50 cents replica, how can these producers' sugar appear which is placed on the market at a significantly less price than 25 to 30 cents? It is the creation of unfair competition, it is an unfair commercial practice, and I think that agency in some way, if there is no legal basis at least by warning should react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40657	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40658	I thank my colleague for this question, but this question is a question that the government of the Republic of Croatia should address. The purchase price some of the foreign chains are working towards their mother can always be lower than the price manufacturer and it will not be in violation as you speak. But that's the question I think the ministry needs to find an answer, how to prevent it from being dumped here anymore, this is practically taking over the market, so pay at this point how much you need to take it, and when you take it, what they say to the husband, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40659	Thank you very much. We're going to have another debate, dear colleague Petyr, come on in. After that, we'll approach the vote, please be in session in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40660	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Madam..., Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. AZTN report for 2019 In the part of the competence of the Agency relating to the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, it should also be observed from the angle of the proposed amendments and addition of the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices which passed the first reading here in HS, which included one part my proposals on the Committee on Agriculture. Although the applicant of this report sets out as the primary objective of implementing the Law on unfair commercial practices the establishment of a positive atmosphere and respect for fair commercial practices, I believe that further successful resolution of the problem of unfair commercial practices is very much related to and with regard to sanctioning them. During 2019, AZTN solved 62 cases in the food supply chain with unfair commercial practices and completed its research into the fruit and vegetable market resulting in the initiation of proceedings against a larger number of purchasers. During the observed period, the Agency imposed administrative and penalty measures totalling 3.5 million kuna on infringements for established unfair commercial practices. When we look at the situation on the market, we would say too few cases and too few penalties, we are witnessing high market pressure of goods entering the Croatian market at dumped prices, and often at predatory prices, prices lower than the product price, which are reasonably suspected that they do not meet the quality standards that Croatian producers must meet. I cannot be satisfied with the answer that there is nothing we can do here because it is a free market, but I believe that we must all look together for solutions and mechanisms to reduce the impact of unfair prices on our producers, but also protect the rights of our consumers. This may contribute to the provisions proposed by the new law, such as unannounced controls, the extension of the scope of unfair commercial practices and the reduction of income censorship to initiate the procedure for the establishment of unfair commercial practices. However, this will not be enough unless we establish as an unfair commercial practice the placing on the market of the product below its production price, the declaration of the product as a Croatian although it contains ingredients from imports and also if we do not provide a better placement of the domestic product through short food supply chains. We have debated a lot in recent days about the frauds that occur in the meat, honey and milk sector, but in recent days there are plenty of information that also apples that arrive in the Republic of Croatia, which are imported, are declared as a Croatian product, so I wonder what else has to happen to finally put an end to these frauds? These are all unfair commercial practices that we must fight, and in addition to legislation, we need enhanced controls of the competent authorities, stricter sanctioning the offenders and continued work by prescribing the quality mark that Croatian consumers will guarantee that they buy Croatian, what has come from our orchards, from our fields and from our farms. Also, I think that it is urgent and that no law or regulation can help, coordinate and bring our state bodies closer together in their cooperation because institutions must work together to support both our citizens and our business entities. We must not forget that any imported or imported kilograms of apples that do not comply with market and demand conditions, which has a dumped price or one which is incorrectly declared in our warehouses and coolers, leaves the kilograms produced by Croatian producers, our farmers and makes them leave agricultural production. When agricultural production is shut down as a significant economic activity in rural areas, it will wide open the door for a further depopulation of rural areas, it will open Pandora's box which could be more financially demanding from now on necessary additional investment in market surveillance and the introduction of order. And that's why we have to act now so it's not too late tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40661	Thank you, too. Comrades and colleagues, please take your seats now so we can approach the vote. Thank you to the government. You'll be back when we're done voting. ... No, no, we'll do the replicas after we're done. [[- Intruder Petyr, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40662	So we're done putting out attitudes, so we'll go back to the previous point. We have one replica that we have remained in debt and that is the replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40663	I hope we'll improve the work of this House to finish our replicas before we go to other points because my colleague Petyr spoke about what, two hours ago. But fortunately, I am ready and will be happy to ask my colleague, Petir, because she is just as interested in unfair commercial practices and, above all, in the way of pretending to be something that is like Croatian or any other person who doesn't really have to be like that. Let's paint the dice and charge dearly. At the same time, Europe was shaken by a contaminant affair, and the scandal reminded it of extremely complicated chains in food production. And so far, labels must indicate the origin of only certain products such as wine, olive oil, fish, poultry, cattle, fresh fruit and vegetables, honey and eggs while we consider it too complicated for products like finished lasagne, because one product can contain eggs from one country, wheat products from another and meat from several others. How can we, what should we mark and how can we even mark anything as Croatian?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40664	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40665	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasudiæ, so I think it is extremely important to mark the traceability of products on the labels of these products, which unfortunately is still not the case, there are announcements that we are witnessing, which are the result of the last directive and which we have installed in our national consumer protection programme. What I think, and when it comes to meat, but also when it comes to any other product, it must be marked from the beginning means its production and through the whole cycle that has gone to market. Are we going to achieve this, so far there have been assurances that for such products as you mention, consisting of several products, so finished food products, the EU Commission has not shown understanding in this regard. How the Coronal Crisis gave numerous lessons, including the fact that short food supply chains are important, that it is important in that sense prefer domestically, I believe there will now be a solution for that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40666	Thank you very much. We are going to the next individual debate, and that will be those respected representatives of Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40667	Good afternoon, everyone. Deputy President of the Competition Council, Vesna Patrlj, in response to the replicas, has unfortunately confirmed to me what is clear from both media inscriptions and from some mantras and flossules that are being confirmed in public, but should not come from the highest-ranking cases such as the one that you, Mrs. You represent the patrol. That, in answer to my question, is why we are lagging behind, corresponds to those famous flossules that this is the case with us, that is, the matter of our mentality. So it's not a matter of free competition, our position in that free competition, it's a matter of our mentality, and that's, of course, the mentality inherited from socialism, as it is said, is it? This is, above all, an unrecognizable view, a statistically unfounded view and an incorrect view. I'm only going to give you a few information that's pretty much defusing it. So I'm sure you also said that some younger entrepreneurs are more adapted to their mentality about the current competition, that's not true. So we are constantly increasing the foreign trade deficit from year to year, according to the EU and according to general abroad. Every year, the industry reduces and gasses, especially the export industry, means the shipbuilding industry that was one of the last, our farmers fail, we produce less food, it doesn't mean 50% less food we produce than we need, 50% food we import, so the domestic sugars are being put out, dairys are being put out, etc., it's not the result of our mentality and such statements we shouldn't listen to with the highest state instances. That's the consequence of the position in that free-market game where we're lagging behind for a number of reasons. Those who have properly analysed our lagging warn that the framework for a free competition which nominally introduces the same market rules for all, a framework that primarily corresponds to those economies and those capitals that are already in a dominant position and technologically advanced and therefore more productive. Such a framework does not correspond to less developed economies, and there is nothing we can do about it, and especially with some change in mentality. Thus, the most developed capitalist economies did not develop under free competition conditions, and these rules only began to be forced when their companies became dominant, such a strategy is called "kiking away the cooler", meaning, discarding the scales or simplified, rich countries reject the ladders that themselves have climbed to the top so as to prevent developing countries from using policies and strategies that they themselves used. What are these policies and strategies? I'll just list some. So, above all, these are the policies of state interventionism, which are both this agency and the work of the law that allegedly protects the free competition, which put us in a subordinate position, which means, nationalisation of strategic industries, industrial policies, "picking winters" strategies, competitive currency devaluations, we will never devalue our currency, but we will keep the rate level, indicative economic planning, and God used state protectionism strategies, these are the meanings of import taxes and tariffs, non-tariff barriers to more competitive imports, etc. This cannot happen to us precisely because of the work of such competition protection agencies and the laws that allegedly protect this free market. EU rules in protecting competition have been incorporated into many of our laws and procedures, but we are in fact putting ourselves in a position to lag behind these laws and procedures, and in a better position, strong corporations from the centre countries remain. Croatia has destroyed a significant part of the industry, especially exporting, such as the shipyard, precisely thanks to the rules governing competition laws and rules that protect this Agency, which include the ban on vertical subsidies, the ban on industrial policies that will aimly encourage certain companies and sectors, the ban on protecting domestic production from more competitive imports where there is competitive imports, competitively only because it has historically developed on the policies of state interventionism and protectionism, so when we talk about the Agency and such related laws, it is best to take a nice picture of the boxers and judges where the Agency is a judge. which is between a professional boxer and an amateur [[Intruder: Thank you.]] implements its rules. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40668	We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40669	Dear MPs, you mentioned in your speech state interventionism. We have an agency report here, and on the other hand, we know that the agency is actually the back wall of the defense. We also have inspections that are trying to do something, but unfortunately it goes weak,... They're almost nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agency is trying, working, do you think that the indicators the agency gives to the state, according to the ministry, according to the economy, are these indicators that they should... Influences the state to intervene towards our producers, or towards our economy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40670	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40671	Well, thanks for asking. So we should intervene, yes, these are certainly indicators that suggest that the state should intervene. Why? Because if all these strategies and tactics used by the agency were really useful, we would really go ahead, it's a mantra that we should just make the competition better, or we need to be more consistent with that original free competition model so we'll get better. The Free Competition Agency is just proof that we are really improving these strategies and tactics but we are increasingly lagging behind. So we could draw some conclusions from that, instead, I mean what I'm criticizing is actually one language that was used here, that mantra that this mentality is responsible for everything, that with the highest state instances, we shouldn't listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40672	Thank you very much, the next debate will be the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40673	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I regret that it is Friday afternoon and that only a few of us are left in the House to discuss this important matter because it concerns what is essential to our citizens, it literally concerns what they eat and drink. The other day, in a debate that is attached to this topic, I pointed out that Croatians are the most recent consumer rights in the EU. The information so far is unknown to the general public and concerns the European Commission's reports. In that sense, when we talk about the report, there are two key dimensions. Unfortunately, I don't have time to get into both. The first is the structure of the report itself and how useful it is to the Croatian Parliament and the second is what is in the report and as far as Croatian citizens are concerned, because when they and the media begin to interpret and present these reports to the public, only then will we have the growth of consumer rights, consumer rights consumption and then the rule of law and a regulated market. As to what kind of report this is, a few brief notes. I think the summary is unquality because it does not provide key information except for those numerical ones that can be useful for the work of this Assembly and often only a summary is read. I think we need to know how certain legal entities are chosen to explore the market and I think that the financial report is transparent and well done. As for what's in this report, its contents, I'm going to take a concrete example that says a lot about how our country works. It's about the right to perform an emergency, basic human right. First an emergency without someone robbing you. It is about companies providing services to entrepreneurs from the wider Sibenik area who have concluded a prohibited agreement on the prices of export-delivery and the disposal of feces from the septic collection and black pits and have been given an administrative and penalty measure totalling 131,000 kuna. All those living in the coastal area know very well how important it is to unload the feces during the tourist season, how insufficient it seems because the service is too expensive and how much it costs us to bypass it. What's this about? simply in the Sibenik area, certain companies agreed on the price and created a single price, violated the rules of competition that went to the consumer's harm and therefore were finally punished by the agency. What's worrying about that? It's not unusual even though it's a bad practice that needs to be done, that certain entrepreneurs have tried to please themselves and said let's just get there some higher price, all of us agree, so we'll all make a better profit. But it is tragic that these entrepreneurs made their offers to the city of Sibenik on the same day of 2016, so there is a unit of local self-government that has received from different entrepreneurs the same price for this extremely important service in the tourism sector and that the city has not responded. Look, we're talking about the city here, what's just going on in the smaller units of local self-government? The city didn't react. One natural person reacted, after which, the agency was only a few years after we saw the entire report. I've also looked at the agency's decision on this particular case. The Agency should not react instead of units of local self-government. The agency should respond to complaints from citizens and local self-government units should do their job. This simple example of the right to perform an emergency shows how deep corruption practice is in Croatia and how many competent institutions do not do their job. The city was supposed to react, not a natural person and not an agency. Because a country where you can't make an emergency without being robbed by someone else is a country that's one big, you figure it out yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40674	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40675	Dear colleagues, I believe that the reports submitted by the Croatian Parliament are competent state bodies, perhaps the most important documents discussed by the Croatian Parliament. We are more important than the laws themselves because the quality of the law very often depends on the information we have and we need to get this information from those who directly apply it to be better. So I'm sorry that you've intonated your speech like this, and I could find some grudges and also some good things in the agency's report, and I'd like them to have better quality work, and I wouldn't like us MPs when we talk about the reports, tossing and mixing topics. From consumer protection, from the authority of local self-government units to the agreement between consumers. So your speech was in no way related to the subject matter of the report, and I do not think that this is an appropriate way to treat our parliamentary representatives to the persons we call in the Croatian Parliament to tell us something from their work round.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40676	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40677	My colleague Oreshković, I also see with you the signs of a repressive character because here you would judge who is allowed to do something and who is not allowed to say something. I assume you're criticizing the criticism for it. I was very precise and specific in two dimensions. The guidance on what I believe could potentially be improved in the report and on the content of the report of concrete decisions that this report has made to us, which is of great concern to the Croatian public who is not at all familiar with all the dimensions and levels that violate its rights, moreover, for the purposes of this report and I have read the judgments that are not in the 100-page report itself. And what you need to criticise to criticise and miss and be the debate and the leg of our citizens will be seen on your political outcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40678	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you said it would be important for the media to pay a little more attention to such reports and the work of the Competition Protection Agency. I absolutely agree with that, we discussed this report last year on the Committee on Agriculture, and we just asked the agency what's going on that some sound cases actually can't be heard in the media, does the agency report at all? We got the answer that the agency was reporting, we got the answer, and we checked that the agency was publishing on its website, but there's still some kind of conspiracy of silence. Maybe it's even logical because when we look at it, we only take the shopping chains, let alone the big buyers and the big companies, how much they invest in advertising in the media, can we expect that the same media that are financed from them will publish against themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40680	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40681	Unfortunately, there is insufficient time for all the topics in this report, but in the section of the report on market press research, we can read the data that advertising is falling significantly. And this brings to an unenviable position of the media that in that race for a sufficient number of advertisers, I believe and overlook the topics they should be dealing with, which are of the interest of Croatian citizens, behind this so-called. clickbaits or clicks and these themes do not come into focus. That is why I was talking about something that raises attention because this is an example that shows a broader and deeper problem of insufficient quality of the functioning of Croatian institutions at all levels. Not just these agencies now, but everything that was supposed to precede her. We should have discussed this before we even talked about the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices. Maybe if it works better in the Parliament And the better works we've had in Parliament will have better... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40682	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40683	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the agency. We will agree that we have a comprehensive but very transparent report in front of us, and according to all the legal and European principles, a report is drawn up. In addition to this report, the overall impact of the Competition Protection Agency is also on its website, which certainly contributes to transparency and educational action for all interested parties. The items and processes the agency is working on are complex. They require specific expertise, speed and urgency of conduct, and this is exactly where the quality of staff staff in the agency comes from. From year to year, the agency shows us a trend in the growth of resolved cases, so in 2019, in the field of competition and banned unfair commercial practices, there were 772 cases or 12.6% growth compared to 2018. For identified malfeasances, it is precisely criminal measures amounting to a total of 4 119 500 kuna. Of course, the aim here must not be to punish only for punishment, but to deter generally from such a procedure in business, to create fair practices, a culture of competition and a positive business environment. To the extent that the decisions taken by the Agency have been carefully taken, it also states that the administrative disputes against the solution of the Competition Protection Agency have been rejected by the prosecutor’s claim and the decision of the Agency itself has been fully confirmed and there have been such decisions 5. What we all see in our eyes and what we can actually call a harsh distortion of competition, and we heard it on the Committee on Economy itself, are cartels. Entrepreneurs should be very careful when agreeing their co-operation, as any price debate potentially puts you at risk of sterling against the rules themselves. I would further point out a few activities of the agency and in 2019 alone, it is here to say that 25 resolved items in this area on violations of the rules have been established by the Agency 2 cartels, and the sanctioning of cartels requires additional strong evidence, and we are free to say that these penitents were the key to the information itself. To point out further the activities of the Agency is an area which has been fully elaborated on us in the report, which is inter-resorially, during which the draft rules, the harmonisation with the acquis and the EU, were conducted sectoral research, and during this reporting period were 3 huge, and related to digital markets, insurance and printing markets, retail and mixed goods markets, the analysis responds to queries, brings expert opinions, participates in a number of bilateral and multilateral foreign projects, and would certainly highlight the twinning project with Montenegro where our experts, agencies, have provided support and conveyed experience to Montenegro. Considering all this, and knowing the human resources of the Competition Agency, we can only commend their work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40684	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40685	Thank you, Vice President of HS, my colleague, we could hear here today during the debate and the the thesis that such discussions on reports in HS are almost unnecessary, which I cannot personally agree with and I am interested in here and your opinion. I kind of think that this debate today at HS can help expand the culture of competition throughout society, so what do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40686	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40687	Thank you, colleague Miro. Yes, you're right, it's very good that we are today, these topics are needed, or this report tells us, as the Agency's director, or representatives of the Agency today, which is that it's very difficult to discover the cartels themselves and this unfair competition, so we must all work together here, and the Agency itself, to strengthen the awareness of citizens, strengthen awareness and promote this particular culture, and it needs to be even stronger, and here is an opportunity for future changes and additions to the law, to strengthen awareness and to, to be better, better, message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40688	The next replica is the respected MPs, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Baricevic, you were talking about cartels, according to some of my information that I have, when it comes to witnesses to penitent ones, they sometimes find themselves in some new cartels again, so when they don't fill their interests, they're penitent, so when they get a new cartel, here they are again, so that it shows a great synergy and creativity, if I can say it so in a diplomatic dictionary, which prevails in these areas, and what the amendments and additions of the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices, where we introduce as many as 43 unfair commercial practices, and I think we should add them more, I've talked about here several times. What do you think would be necessary through, here, these discussions we've been having over the past few days, and everything is somehow going in a similar direction, to have detailed provisions in the Law to combat unfair commercial practices in order to really create instruments to protect domestic production, but also to protect domestic production? Our consumers? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40690	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40691	Thank you, of course, for the distinguished advocates, Mariana Petir. Indeed, in the area of competition, the Law on the Protection of Competition is in charge of the Law and the prohibited unfair commercial practices of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Anyway, here, it's very important to communicate better with these legal changes, to just lead to what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40692	Dear Representative Balic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40693	Thank you, dear Vice-President of HS, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that I welcome this report in question, i.e. the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019. In your presentation you pointed out as one important segment of the Agency's business in this year, international co-operation and in this context you mentioned the twinning light project to help the Competition Agency in Montenegro. Can you say what it is, or something more concrete about this project, and why it is important and what results it has received? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40694	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40695	I thank the distinguished representatives Marijana Petir, therefore, that very international cooperation between the Agency and the assistance is financed from the European project, and this is precisely the first project that the Agency has carried out independently with the support of the Central Agency for Financing and Negotiation in the field of administration and finance of the project. The project was therefore aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Montenegrin agency in the management and resolution of competition protection cases, with an emphasis on procedural aspects involving complex economic analyses, as well as the collection of evidence itself, in particular through unannounced search of business and private premises of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40696	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40697	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the Annual Report of the Competition Protection Agency for 2019 and the Competition Protection Agency certainly plays an important role in promoting competition law and competition policy, where there is also a significant role in creating and expanding the culture of competition and raising awareness of the effects of competition on the growth of the competitiveness of the national economy and consumer well-being, and somehow in this context I am also experiencing this debate in the Croatian Parliament today. According to the Agency's report, in 2019 it had a total of 772 resolved cases in the field of competition and prohibited unfair commercial practices. For established infringements of the law during 2019, administrative and penalty measures amounting to €4 119 500 were imposed, as was the case in 2019, an increase in resolved cases of 12.6% compared to 2018. In fact, it is a stronger trend since the increase in 2018 was around 6.7% compared to 2017. In addition, I will focus more on the work of the Competition Protection Agency on the establishment of unfair trading practices in the food supply chain where the Agency solved 62 items during 2019, of which 9 administrative, 53 irregular, the Agency worked through administrative procedures and a large number of contracts concluded with suppliers, traders, buyers and processors, a lot of contributions, annexes and general conditions of business. Out of the total of 9 completed administrative cases which were all initiated under official duty, in connection with the launch of 5 administrative cases, were from the knowledge of anonymous applications and 4 were movements based on market research. During 2019, the investigation of the situation in the fruit and vegetable market was completed in 2018, resulting in the initiation of proceedings against a larger number of buyers. During the observed period of the Agency for established unfair commercial practices, it imposed administrative and penalty measures totalling 3.5 million kuna on offenders. Furthermore, in 2019, the Agency received 473 notifications from the European Commission of the concentration of entrepreneurs, in these cases it was necessary to verify whether they had concrete concentrations or if the applications... which is an effect on the Croatian market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Other significant activities of the agency certainly include sectoral market research, promotion of competition rights and policies, professional opinions and evidence of legal persons' enquiries, inter-resort and international co-operation. During 2019, the agency also carried out three extensive sectoral market research and this retail and mixed market, food, drinks, hygiene goods, insurance markets and the press market. During this reporting period, the Agency resolved a total of 62 cases in the area of banning unfair commercial practices. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The other 53 items in this area were related to the research of individual markets and the evidence of the enquiries of natural legal persons, chambers and other entities and to international cooperation with the European Commission. The Agency also improved cooperation with competition authorities from other countries, for example in 2019 a co-operation agreement was concluded with the competition authorities of the Republic of Albania and a bilateral meeting was held with representatives of the state administration for the regulation of the market in the People's Republic of China. Finally, it is apparent that the Agency’s activities during 2019 were aimed at promoting competition law and competition policy, and I therefore assess that this report has shown the work of the Agency in a transparent manner and I fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40698	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habib, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40699	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the agency, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Annual Report of the Agency, as I said earlier in the replica, I don't think that anyone well-intentioned can dispute this report that is before us and would say, as in general, the entire work of the agency itself. Here it was just said, I am sorry that there is no more Selak Rasdić, how where where this if I understand correctly, the summary should be short, but therefore there is a full annual report which is indeed extensive but also for all those who are interested, there is and I always say, I will also commend and very extensively in fact all the decisions that the agency actually puts on its website, therefore, whoever is interested, can find all the data there. I also think it is necessary to mention and praise the agency's work so far in the monitoring segment of the actual state of competition protection at EU level, especially in the application of EU rules, even before the formal accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. In addition to the commitments made to apply the rules in the competition in the community, the obligation to apply the instruments for interpretation adopted by the institutions of the Community, including, of course, the secondary legislation and the bodies of the Union in charge of competition, as well as the case-law or judicial decision, in particular, the European Court of Justice. It is precisely the knowledge and monitoring and application of the decision of the European Court of Justice in proceedings before the Agency of great importance for the proper and complete protection of the area of competition and, personally, since I am also a lawyer who, in several cases, has been found before the Agency, can also confirm this. The Agency has, for example, started applying, or calling for, the practice of the European Court of Justice, much earlier than that of the judicial institutions. It is sufficient, therefore, to look at the really rich practice that the Agency has established through its decisions, so over the years and years, and in which we find a comparative analysis of the decisions of the European Court of Justice, detailed analyses of the relevant markets and representation of entrepreneurs on the same, of course, depending on the particular case which is the subject of the decision itself. I said earlier in the replica, that the new legal institutes and new powers assigned to the Agency will certainly enable it to fight even more successfully against entrepreneurs who conclude forbidden agreements, i.e. cartels, as well as entrepreneurs who abuse their ruling position, by amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act, which I hope will be adopted in this House. We also know that, on 11 December 2018, the EU Parliament and Council Directive 2019/1 has been adopted authorising the authorities of the Member States in charge of competition to more effectively implement competition rules and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. Of course, given the above, it is necessary to transpose it into national legislation. Of the many newspapers in that directive, I would like to point out here something was actually said by my colleague Petir, a programme of repentance, one, I would say of the most important tools of the Agency precisely in the fight against cartels, for the reasons that forbidden agreements between mutual competitors on the market, which in most cases are secret and their discovery is extremely difficult. The Agency is still in November 2010 and, when those Regulations on the criteria for the pronunciation of administrative and criminal measures have entered into force, and in particular the Regulation on the criteria for the release or reduction of administrative and penalty measures are authorised to implement a penitentiary programme for cartel participants, hence, the press is only more detailedly governed by the already existing institute and is also authorised by the Agency to grant access to statements by repenting entrepreneurs or proposals for settlement to parties in the procedure to which the statements and proposals for a settlement relate and for the purposes of exercising their rights of defence in that procedure. In this way, I would say, in fact, to achieve a certain balance in the process itself. Why am I really pointing that out? It is precisely because it is also the Agency’s own Report, which was cited by the Agency’s own representative in the next period of time as a priority to remove severe restrictions on competition. Also, because the AZTN representative also pointed out here that the only legal and.../incomprehensible mechanism in establishing a fair and transparent competition is to raise the awareness of entrepreneurs and other market players regarding the importance of recognising and respecting competition rules. I would say, in fact, that in a certain, however, a small number of cases nor.../incomprehensible/... there is really no intention of violating the rules on the protection of competition by entrepreneurs, however, this very low level of awareness of their obligations puts them in a position to fall under the control of the Agency, and then, of course, by doing so and giving administrative and penalty measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40700	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40701	We all agree for sure that the protection of competition is very important and it is certainly good that we have twinning projects with similar agencies in the countries of our environment, which may not be in the EU yet, which may also have not been through some of the things we have been through, so they will benefit from our experience. I would just like to point out that it would be good then to have twinning projects with some other countries, or agencies of some other countries, agencies dealing with the protection of competition, in some countries, so let's say, which are economically ahead of us, and then of course, maybe the consequences of such projects will be that, that some new knowledge will come for us and for our Competition Protection Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40702	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40703	Thank you very much. I agree with you when we talk about this someone, let's call it that, international co-operation, but I will reiterate what I really think about the Competition Protection Agency, that, if I can say so, by introducing some newspapers and re-emphasizing it here, so when no one, really rarely, from the judicial institutions, and to what was required by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself, is obliged to apply a certain legal gain, so the EU, it was very difficult to go to courts that still had difficulty understanding of the actual obligation and direct application of certain, for example, regulations, or regulations of the EU, while the Agency did so while it was also, at that time calling for EU practice, and I would actually say that many competition agencies in the Member States that are much longer than we, would actually be able to see themselves in their own procedures and in its work on market protection in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40704	Thank you. Now we have final presentations. In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40705	Thank you, my dear. How important the work, and how damaging the unhappiness of the Competition Protection Agency, is today I would like to recapitulate this debate through the application of the Agency, which I have already mentioned, which is the 2012 application, and it is the application of the Association of cattlemen and milk producer Bilogor from Gornji Maslarac, hence, from 5.9.2012. At that time, they experienced the Agency as the last straw of salvation and therefore addressed it with an application for the violation of the competition by the dairy processing industry and, specifically, Lactal from the group so that Dukat, Sirela, Kim and others in the group, and Vindi, Ledo and Meggle. However, the Agency, as well as the Ministry, decided to give up on them, and the application went for the primary cartel behaviour of the dairy processing industry, then the monopolitical behaviour of the dairy industry, obviously taken over by our country, then abuse of the ruling position of the dairy industry in the Lactalis group, and not market formation of the buying and selling prices of milk and milk products, then in the application they explained all the untrue subsidies of Dukat d.d. According to milk producers, then a non-transparent calculation of the quality of milk, a failure of quality milk, so all this is happening today and a restriction of freedom of choice for the purchaser of fresh milk. So on 20 pages of detailed text with contributions to a large number of OPGs and their families, he exhibited what all the dairy industry does to them and how it directly destroys them. I repeat, at that time in 2012, we still had 65,000 dairy producers, and today, as I mentioned earlier, all 4000 were left. The agency didn't, and this procedure was actually created as directly as possible, which is indirectly over 60,000 social cases, so from a working-age population, we were creating social cases. I would say that this is an eclectic example of the destruction of a small man, an example of where all the institutions have scheduled, of the Ministry of Agriculture through the State Inspectorate and the associated inspections and the Agency for the Protection of Competition. If the agency had done its job, the dairy industry would not have crushed, crushed, and destroyed 50,000 Croatian worth and fair families, which entails hundreds of thousands of endangered existences from our citizens. I just hope all of this at the agency is fully aware. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40706	Thank you very much. The next club is the Mosta and in the name of Marija Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40707	Such reports, whose content is of a broader public interest, have two dimensions and thus somehow lead parliamentary representatives into an unspeakable position. One dimension is the way reports are written, their credibility, their quality and potential queries to improve. And that's what the MPs do. But the second dimension of such reports, which is relevant and concerning what is out of shape in these reports, is of great interest to Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, the key information contained in such reports escapes the public's eyes because I believe that if the public knew more about what unfair commercial practices are, how many trade chains they are supplying on a daily basis, break good commercial practices and be penalized, it is almost all trade chains that exist on the market, honor exceptions at all, and that despite the warnings and concrete financial penalizations that the agency has made today, because I was looking at the report for 2020, i.e. the budget agency for December, where we again have concrete financial penalties for certain trades that violate good commercial practice. If citizens knew something about what was going on, how to break those practices, how to make arrangements across the market, if suppliers knew how to break their rights, if the citizens heard that even one big Coca-Cola and we like to think that such sound names are brought and some better market opportunities in Croatia, agreed with the catering facilities that they can only be bought roughly by their products if they want to be distributed and Coca-Cola, and that they have imposed themselves a fine and that no one has come forward to comment on that punishment, so such punishment and are accepted and the practice is reportedly changed, or since we are already late because we are talking about 2019 has already been changed, then maybe citizens would have opened their eyes and ears and were able to perceive and violate their consumer rights themselves, or if we are working to strengthen their business, and to see that there are all the tools available against the commercial practices available. There are many examples that really are clear and concern the everyday life of all ways in violation of market laws, and how this affects our daily life. In my presentation, I have set an example that I believe is to be alert and that will be understandable to every citizen. I didn't single him out by accident because it's an interesting example of all the trade chains, it's also an interesting example of Coca-Cola, interesting and important examples of market research that are also listed in this Agency report. But unfortunately, only when we use some examples of attention, do we raise awareness of the problem and may we get to ask ourselves, “So what does that report say? So who am I as a consumer, so who am I as an entrepreneur, so what are my rights? What unfair commercial practices do I not have to agree to? Whom can I contact and what can I do to change it?" In this way because of the lack of such reports in public, I fear that the role of the Assembly remains primarily enlightening. In order to take into account time limits, we need to summarise our debate on important, to get to know citizens with the content of these reports and less unfortunately, to entertain the form, which is a way of improving these reports that will lead to us in the future to communicate more clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40708	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the final representative, Željko Pavić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40709	The Honorable Chairman, ma'am. Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, there aren't many of us, but here's to round up our debates today. I said today what I think should be in the report, I tried to name it. I commended what I felt should be commended, and I think today we took advantage of that break smartly because we discussed some things, I think it would be good to put these things back in the report, or those elements in the report, because of the new representatives who came here and those who didn't read the report last year, who hadn't read the report and the previous years, should simply be in the report. In fact, it's that I used to sit here in these benches, or representatives from my company, and when I was a member of the administration, and I know how hard we tried to make that report as high as possible, that nobody could say something was wrong, and we were especially trying to describe and write something about things we didn't do and we should have done. That was very important. And to explain why they didn't do it. We need this report because we need the data. A report without data on which we can make some decisions, conclusions, changes don't mean anything to us. The report is likely to be accepted in the Assembly but is of no use to anyone. A report of yours in particular, I have already told you, I believe that you are after an inspection that unfortunately does not work and cannot function, you are the last defense of our producers, our agricultural producers, they believe in you because others can no longer help them except you. And I think what you've done in there through your work, which has ultimately been assessed by the Ministry of Agriculture as positive, I think that should be pointed out. Because if the Ministry of Agriculture is in accordance with Art. 34. The law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain produced an ex post assessment of the impact of the law and, after analysis, concluded that the law has made certain positive changes in the relationship between suppliers and traders and suppliers and processors, if something happened after that with the contracts positive, if we have other items of contracts that help our suppliers, which help our producers, this is a positive effect and should be highlighted in its report. To know what, how, why, what we should do to help others. I know it's a little disturbing for you, but believe me, it bothers us too, when we get a report that's there, and based on it, we can't conclude anything, we can't analyze it because there's some data missing that you have, you have them for sure because you've been processing them, because you've operated with them, and I know they're reaching your hands, but they're simply not written in there, whether or not by mistake, whether or not I miss, I have no idea. Similarly happened to you with the report by Mr Beros, the minister on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the COVID-19 outbreak, which he wrote the report, counted all the measures but did not count any effects. And she says so you all know, it says in the papers, yes, but it's not my place to collect data from newspapers. We know what the effects were from the papers, we don't know what measure he was referring to, but we need a measure, we need an effect. The measure, the effect, to be measurable. After all, we need all this together, so we can implement corrective measures. We need reports in order to make a corrective measure, so that we can change the law if something in the law doesn't fit, if something in the law is wrong, if something needs to be loosed in the law, if something in the law needs to be applied, we need reports to do so, so that we can influence it. And I hope you'll fix it and we'll get a report next year a lot more extensively and we'll have inside all the data we need to make that conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40710	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, he will speak to the esteemed Vesna Patrol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40711	Well, here we are, respected advocates and advocates, in the end I would just like to say that I am very much, that I am very glad that the area of our work, both the area of protection of competition and the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, has given you great interest. What I would like to say in the end is just, I would like to explain some things that the agency is not responsible for even though they were mentioned here, so I would especially point out because most MPs mentioned the wrong product declarations. Namely, products that are wrongly declared as Croatian products, although not Croatian products, appear in the trade chains, the Competition Protection Agency is not responsible for the control and correctness of the declaration of the marked products. So that's what the inspection services are for, the State Inspectorate, about which we're the public so there's no confusion, because it's called the agency in the paper to do something, we're doing it under our law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, we don't have the authority, we don't have the inspections, so that's what the State Inspectorate should do. We took action in a way that we published on our website on March 10th, you will see a public statement. Nobody passed on I don't know why, but we published it. We wrote to the State Inspectorate, so we also informed them that under our law we were not in charge of the control and regularity of the declarations and we also informed the Ministry of Agriculture. So in that part of your remark, unfortunately the agency can't do anything because it's simply not competent. As far as I'm concerned, there's a Mrs. Crescent now. Katarina Peovic, I really didn't, I just said when you asked me why the economy of the Republic of Croatia is lagging behind the economy of other EU member states or most EU Member States, I said this should be done, that a serious large analysis should be done, so that was fundamentally what I said. The Agency is not in charge of State aid control, we were in charge of it for a while, but it was since 2003-2014, so we haven't been in charge of state aid since 2014. We can't do industrial policies or strategies, so it's not in our jurisdiction. As far as the question is concerned, the question has been raised and related to the meat of poor quality that appears, or some other products of poor quality that appear in our stores, we are not even competent to examine the quality control of these products. We, of course, if you read the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices, there is an indication of what the essential components of the contract are between suppliers of the specific and the trader of the particular. However, the quality of the product is stated there, that it must be marked in the contract, however, in order for us to examine the quality of the product, we do not examine the general quality of the product but only in a situation of exceptional might we do so if a supplier submitted to us an application, even anonymously, in any way, that its product or that the product of a particular quality is sold under some other quality, its specific product, that a particular trader of its product sold under someone, we did so to you in the case of “Fragaria” we found that the watermelons were sold in a wrongly marked quality. But in general, we, for product quality control, are not in charge, nor do we have, we have to take away the art, I mean, we'd have to have an expert in the process to determine that. The law doesn't give us that power. It's a matter of inspection again, not of us. As far as energy and telecommunications problems are concerned, I have to point out, or the bank, the banking business, I must point out that the Agency is not the only regulator on that market, that the market is also operated by HACOM and HERA and HNB, so it is not exclusively the Agency's jurisdiction in the situation in those markets. From now on, let's see if there's anything else we should stress out. Regarding the matter of the report, i.e. the manner of statistical data and what Mr Pavić said, we gave those data, but not in that way, I think you can find on page 7, 9 and 58 of this report exactly what we were doing, how much we remained unsolved that we started in '19 and ended them in '20. A year and so on from these cases 22 that remained unsolved in the '20s. A lot of them have been solved for years. The communications were posted on our website, I am Mr. Pavic in the break exactly and listed which items were solved in the meantime. Thank you very much for your advice, or recommendations for future reports, so we will try to make it even more visible to work in the future and once again, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40712	Thank you very much. Please, stay, we have three replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40713	Dear secretary, as your agency is also here... in one part, and it is there to help, and not to punish, so that we are also there to help make these reports really as good as possible, so that we can work better, so that Parliament can make better decisions, so that we can make better quality laws, and please understand that really well on purpose, because here, I was just trying to do an analysis of what we got on the table, to see if we can get something out of that data or we can't get what we're interested in getting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first thing, second thing, I wanted to tell you more about digitization. I can't and can't criticise what you're doing for your agency and I think it's a good thing, but what I would recommend, what I would suggest is that we try and try to get you and all the other agencies and public companies and ministries, to concentrate on the agency that offers services centralized, means our... A centre in APIS and try to use these services there to make it as cheap as possible for the state and that we can do the central register. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear secretary, as your agency is also here... in one part, and it is there to help, and not to punish, so that we are also there to help make these reports really as good as possible, so that we can work better, so that Parliament can make better decisions, so that we can make better quality laws, and please understand that really well on purpose, because here, I was just trying to do an analysis of what we got on the table, to see if we can get something out of that data or we can't get what we're interested in getting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first thing, second thing, I wanted to tell you more about digitization. I can't and can't criticise what you're doing for your agency and I think it's a good thing, but what I would recommend, what I would suggest is that we try and try to get you and all the other agencies and public companies and ministries, to concentrate on the agency that offers services centralized, means our... A centre in APIS and try to use these services there to make it as cheap as possible for the state and that we can do the central register. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40714	Your Honor, ma'am. It's a patrol.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40715	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40716	The Republic has a respected representative, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40717	Thank you. Dear, it is clear to us as agents that you are not in charge of controlling declarations on products and in shops and that it is actually a business of inspection, however, we believe that there is always the possibility of inter-resor coordination between the body, especially because you are working... the research that you also refer to as a recommendation later to the Government, i.e. to the competent ministries or units of local and regional self-government, so today we are talking about very serious problems that suffer agriculture and the Croatian village, and I believe that you know that our village is devastated and people are moving out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why, for these reasons, I believe that we are obliged to point out these problems and here, if it is possible in any way to influence both you and other institutions to try to influence the current situation through this joint coordination on those bodies where you can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40718	Your Honor, ma'am. It's a patrol.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40719	So we're in favour of co-operation with the State Inspectorate in any case, we've even tried to achieve one cooperation and hold a meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture, but the problem is that, let's say, they've come out twice, the state inspectors who've made an insight into the ransom places to see if, whether the exact terms of the ransom were published in accordance with the law and two state inspectors have done it and sent us a report because we have 6 people at the beginning, when we started working in that area. However, after that, the co-operation ended, namely that it was not prescribed by the State Inspectorate Act and that they cannot help us in this regard because we are now in charge of implementing the Law on the Prohibition of the Unfair trade practices. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40720	The Republic has a respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40721	First of all, I would say that the void of these benches speaks more, the most it speaks of is how important this topic is to HDZ. No HDZ member except the chairman is present in the hall, and as far as your position is concerned, it's not just your attitude on mentality, so that we should change our mentality, just apply that free competition a little bit more, so we'll get better. It is a general opinion in our society that we must certainly overcome and agree with you, serious debate, serious data, statistics are what we are interested in here, here, this information that a colleague, 60 thousand milkmen, after a few years 4 thousand, that means the data that we need to see how much is, what are the scales of ineffectiveness so-called. Free competitions, which supposedly, if we stick to it, we'll all be better off, And your data is crucial to that. [[Thank you. Dear...]] That's right. [[Intruder:...expensive president...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40722	... Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40723	Well, I have nothing to gain from that, I've really said that you need extensive analysis in response, so that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40724	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met and we will continue to work on Tuesday, I stress, on Tuesday, March 23rd at 9:30. The first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, second reading, P.Z. No. 24. Have a nice weekend. Unfortunately, no, there will be several. Session adjourned in 15.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40726	We will now go and vote, first we will go through the opinions of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of requests for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We have three of them, under a) which was submitted by MP Nikola Grmoja, under b) who was submitted by agent Arsen Bauk and under c) who was represented by Domagoj Hajduković. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, shall be decided without debate. So first, I am voting on the next conclusion, the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is accepted on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the representative of Nikola Grmoi and which reads: Article 236(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been defined as giving the president a word to a representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure as soon as this request is made. The video of the 6th session, held on 5 March 2021, found that the president did not give the speaker his word after his repeated request to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore considered that the chairman did not act in accordance with that provision and was obliged to give his word to the representative as soon as he asked to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament."... What did you say? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Nothing, then we vote...... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40727	I just wanted to explain that I was looking for a break before the first point, before the opinion of the Constitution Committee. That I... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40728	So you want a break now? Well, then call before the third, let's not work like that now, okay, okay. [[Orešković: Before the third.]] So, who's...? Injury of my colleague Bauk's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40729	I think he's hurt. 252. Rules of Procedure because according to Art. 294. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, when Parliament adopts the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure and should declare before the vote that a half majority of all MPs are required to adopt this opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40730	Comrade Bauk, I don't agree with such a vision because, just a little while, I can see that some of you are very much already, please give me what opinion I had, oh, and here it is, here it is. So here are the situations where the Parliament decided on the opinions of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of time and the SDP and HDZ when the Committee adopted its views and the plenary session confirmed those opinions without a supra-al majority. So, I have a few examples, I followed what you were saying. The first was from 2015, when the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was very much a colleague of the Grbin, and at one request by MP Djurdice Sumrak, the debate was held, and 74 MPs were in favour, 53 against and the status of the document, and that opinion was accepted. The same goes for the 11th situation. 2. 2016, at that time, it was Pedja Grbin's representative who wanted the committee's opinion, and the committee gave an opinion, voted here at the plenary session, 73 for, 48 abstentions and 2 against, status adopted. And the third example from 2020, 18. 12, also an opinion which was confirmed by most votes but not by the fact that it was a half majority. So you have the right to this objection but also I will not adopt it now, you can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. So now I will put this first a) proposal to the vote, so we accept the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 119 MPs, 114 for, 4 abstentions and 1 against, so we reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Now we're going to b, I'm voting on the next conclusion. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be adopted on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which shall be submitted by Advocate Arsen Bauk and which shall read as follows: 170. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, prescribed that if the President of the Croatian Parliament finds that the proposed act is not drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, he will ask the applicant to act within a certain period and to comply with the business provisions. In the event of a failure being resolved within 15 days of the call, the proposal will be deemed not to have been submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 44. (a) The Law on Courts is prescribed that the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is initiated by the The candidates shall submit programmes of work publicly published on the website of the State Judicial Council with their life reports. Received applications by candidates, the State Judicial Council shall submit the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia to request the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the relevant board of the Croatian Parliament. A proposal from the President of the Republic of Croatia for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia of 8 March 2021 was submitted to this committee. Class: 021-13/21-07/35, UR.BR.: 71-21-01 and letter from the President of the Croatian Parliament of 9 March 2021 CLASS: 021-13/21-07/35, UR. 65-21-02. The documents submitted show that no documentation was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament showing that the proposal for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the President of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the above-mentioned law and thus by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the above, it is considered that the President of the Croatian Parliament has acted in accordance with the provision of the Article. 170. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and did not reject the proposal but asked the applicant to act and comply with that business provision within a certain period of time. Who's in? You have, I haven't seen, I'm sorry. So we have a request for a break, dear colleague Dalia Oreshkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40732	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club for further consultations. I think it is important here in the interests of the entire Croatian public and all of us MPs to clarify what this is about. So I believe that the President of the Republic's proposal to consider his proposal to appoint a new Supreme Court President, whatever I think of that appointment. Namely, your authority as President of the Croatian Parliament was to check whether it was an authorised promoter, which is certainly the President of the Republic in this case. Namely, art. 268th and Art. 268th 33. The Rules of Procedure clearly define what your powers are and our responsibility as representatives in the Croatian Parliament was then to evaluate the appointment and appointment proposal of the President of the Republic in the sense of Article. 81st indent 10 The Constitution and to vote against since its proposal does not comply with the procedure and procedure laid down by the Court Act. But you weren't the one who could take that power, the right to take it for yourself. So it is our right to vote on how we will vote, and you had no right to refuse the president's proposal to include this in the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40733	Now a colleague of the coat of arms, too, is an explanation of the pause, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40734	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a break related to this item of the agenda. The situation here is very simple. We are now no longer discussing the proposal of the President of the Republic to appoint a certain person president of the Supreme Court. This has turned into a debate on the right of the President of the Croatian Parliament to determine whether the act submitted is in accordance with the law or is in accordance with the Constitution. By accepting such an opinion, we will give the President of the Croatian Parliament the power of the Constitutional Court. By accepting such an opinion, the President of the Parliament will be granted a discretionary right to decide whether an act is suitable for discussion or not, on the basis of its assessment, whether such an act is in conformity with the Constitution or with the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in parliamentary democracy such authority cannot be held by the president of HS. It may have an HS to decide whether to accept an act or not, or a constitutional court that will assess whether the adopted act is constitutional, but not one person, not one person who is actually “primus inter paras” first among the equal in charge of leading the meetings of HS, to maintain order on them, but not to assess whether HS can decide anything or not. Dear colleagues and colleagues, by accepting this opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system HS Croatia will cease to be a parliamentary democracy and become something else I do not even know how to name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40735	Thank you very much, very much, fellow coat of arms. I'm going to give my colleague Bacic's words, just for a little while, I have to look back on what you said because it's about my decision. So I did not decide on the constitutionality and legality of this proposal because it would be wrong. That's not my job. I only determined if I got everything that was necessary to make one motion decision ready to go on the agenda. Since the documentation I received from the Office of Presidents of the Republic, signed by the President, did not show that he respected and acted in accordance with the provisions of the law, I did not see any documentation in the public call carried out and the candidate resulting from that public call, nor did I see a programme that was required to deliver a candidate who appeared for the position of Supreme Court President. I based it on this conclusion that I have no documentation from which point would be ready for the agenda and I have returned it to the President of the Republic to complete the documentation and return it within 15 days. So here it is, this is an attempt, I understand the opposition, an attempt to accuse me of deciding on the constitutionality and legality of an act. I didn't do it, and I won't, and I don't think of it. It was evident here that this proposal for a decision does not contain the necessary documentation to become part of the agenda, this is what this is about. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40736	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a break in order to make clear to all colleagues, but also to the Croatian public, that HS representatives have taken an oath that they have committed to respecting the constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure as an act governing the internal conduct and operation of HS and has the power and legal status of the law of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has been shown that, in this case, when it returned to the President of the Republic of Croatia the decision to appoint the President of the Supreme Court acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the HS. It did not refuse to put it on the agenda but the president, which is very important, asked the authorising officer to bring the same act into line with the law, and this is about an act called the Decision appointing the Supreme Court President. Based on an article. 161. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Decision, which the Assembly decides to appoint, are based on both the law and the law, and it is written here. Since the decision proposed by the President of the Republic of Croatia did not justify himself and relied on the Law on Courts as it was prescribed by the procedure of electing the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, there was nothing else left for the President of the Republic of Croatia to request the completion of the agenda, and we, as representatives of a respected colleague and colleagues, will ask the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia why he did not put it on the agenda when conditions arise when one of the authorised representatives submits a complaint then we will decide on the agenda. There's no need for me and you at the club for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40737	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. Okay, I'm not going to give a five-minute break right now. We're going to continue in accordance with the article. 293.b. HS, then we'll approach the vote. So, who is for the proposal to conclude the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 130 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 12 abstentions and 41 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The club of HDZ representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the National Party of Reformists, the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party propose a conclusion which reads: Firstly, the HS in the interest of strengthening constitutionality and legality in the Republic of Croatia is hereby clearly assigned to such a choice by the President or the President of the Supreme Court, which will contribute to the improvement of the work of the Croatian judiciary. Secondly, according to its constitutional and legislative role in the election process of the President or the President of the Supreme Court, the HS demonstrates its willingness to share the procedure responsibly with other top institutions of the Republic of Croatia which have been assigned the role of the Constitution and the law in the election process of the President or the President of the Supreme Court. And thirdly, HS points out that this election will not and cannot solve all the problems of the Croatian judiciary, and expects and calls on all those sharing constitutional and legal responsibility for the process of improving the work of the judiciary to be a permanent joint task. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40738	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club to consult on this conclusion. First of all, I would like to say that, as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure voted against this opinion, which was just voted on, means that I believe that the president of HS was in serious violation of the Rules of Procedure when he rejected it, rejected it for the purpose of form, which is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure, and not for the content of the President's proposal for the Supreme Court's candidate. However, there was one dangerous precedent that the president could do a previous assessment of legality and constitutionality, but this conclusion that you gave us here is sensational, sensational. I can't believe it's even calming down the ticks that you have in the ruling coalition because this is absolutely amazing. So to be ironic, this is such a progressive conclusion that it should enter HS's annals. So three parameters. The first paragraph, "HS in the interest of strengthening constitutionality and legality", is not in our interest to strengthen constitutionality, we need to respect the Constitution. The second paragraph, "shows its willingness to share the procedure responsibly with other top institutions of the Republic of Croatia", which we have to express readiness, means everything in the Constitution, the president of the Republic of Croatia suggests, the HS votes. And then my third favorite paragraph, "HS points out that this election will not and cannot solve all the problems of the Croatian judiciary", what ambition by HS, dear colleagues and colleagues? What ambition in the situation while the President of the Supreme Court has serious accusations, existing, for taking bribes, that it's been more than five months that the USKOK couldn't determine whether or not these serious accusations stand or not and then propose this conclusion to HS? I don't really know where you live?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40739	Thank you very much, dear colleague Tomaševic, it is your right, your position, but once again I ask you not to repeat the the thesis that I decide on constitutionality and legality and that I reject it. I didn't throw it away. I went back for 15 days to complete the paperwork. So please, it is very important because of the Croatian public, this attempt that you are making to accuse me of having decided on the constitutionality and legality of this proposal. I repeat again, there was no evidence from the documentation which was attached that the President of the Republic respected everything that was to be respected in the procedure that existed. It's like getting some legal proposal that doesn't have complete documentation and then I return it to the Proposer to deliver everything he needs within 15 days, that's all it is. Please, let's not deceive the public. Comrade Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40740	Thank you, Mr. President. As a member of the Committee on the Constitution, I said that I was not to increase the authority of either the President of the Republic in this, or in any other matter, and I am now repeating it on behalf of the SDSS Club. So, we from the SDSS Club are because a good part of the process is taking place in the parliamentary bodies and in the Parliament, but we are not about to have someone setting us up with a net or a top and that we are involved in a game that will not contribute to anything or judicial reform. If we want to reform the judiciary of a respected colleague and colleagues, we have our own bodies of Parliament, we have a Committee on the Constitution, we have a Justice Committee to discuss this in place. And this conclusion, fellow Tomasevic, makes sense if we do so, and we invite you to join the SDSS club when he put his signature on it, regardless of whether anyone likes or dislikes the individual word in this conclusion, so we invite you to join this business because here, regardless of what kind of relations and obligations a man could take over in the coalition, but we have full awareness that the Croatian judiciary is wrong, but we seriously need to focus on this in a way prescribed by law and the Constitution and use a language that is suitable for parliamentary representatives, officials who do the most work in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40741	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40742	Not insult each other and destabilise relations between state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40743	Thank you very much. Dear Pupovac, thank you very much. As in the past, we are not going on a break, but we continue with the vote. So I'm voting the conclusion of the representatives' clubs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 10 abstentions, 42 against, and thus we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by representatives clubs. The SDP representative club proposes to draw a conclusion to the Assembly, which reads: "Firstly, HS strongly opposes the establishment of practice under which the president of the HS plays the role of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the HS Legislative Committee and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the HS at the same time. Secondly, HS points out that I am the foundation of an article. 170. The Rules of Procedure of the HS President shall have the power to establish whether the proposal has been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure relating to the time limits prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and the form of the act prescribed. 174. The Rules of Procedure of the HS without entering into the content of the proposal, and in particular without the right to a discretionary assessment of the constitutionality and legality of a single proposal without discussion and without the prescribed procedure. In order to declare the elements of the proposal relating to constitutional bases, it shall be authorised by virtue of Article 1(1). 179. Rules of Procedure, HS Legislative Committee." Are you looking for a colleague named Bauk?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40744	Mr. President, since HS has adopted the opinion of the Constitution Committee which is diametrically contrary to our proposal for a conclusion, which we disagree deeply, we are withdrawing this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-19-0.u40745	A wise decision. Then we won't vote on it. So let us move to c) so another conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning the request for infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, which was submitted by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, which reads: 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the HS has been prescribed that the agent will be given a warning if he acts contraryly. 238. The Rules of Procedure, that is, when they start talking about a subject they didn't get a word about, and they report a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The purpose of that provision is to sanction the conduct of a representative using the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure in a way contrary to the business provisions. Therefore, it is clear from the MPs that he is talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has already been sanctioned, without substance and the contrary to the meaning of the provisions mentioned above. The chair may therefore give notice to a representative who acts in such a way as to maintain order at the session of the Assembly. In view of the above, it is considered that the Rules of Procedure of the HS have not been injured. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 124 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 8 abstentions, 40 against and thus the conclusion was reached as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the Law on HRT and the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. The applicant is the HRT Programme Council. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, "It is taken note of that report." Who is in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 130 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 2 abstentions, 52 against and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Assembly to draw two conclusions. I read the text of the first, it is called on the HRT Programme Council to report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the HRT Act and the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the preceding year to be implemented by the end of June of the current year. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 MPs and MPs voted, 118 for, 2 abstentions, and the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with this conclusion, the vote on the second conclusion of the same Committee is not necessary because the substance that was to be defined in the second conclusion is defined here. What? Yeah, I'm sorry. It is therefore that the Committee has requested that a specific report be submitted in the meantime, so that there is no need to vote.
